ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 231 on carbon tax and the cost of carbon emissions, from Birgir's Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u2	A respectable president. Icelanders like to be in the highest order and among the nations who stand out in all respects as role models to other nations. Now it is found that we are in the world at the head of being grey. Last week Iceland, in the French Action Force, FAFF, arrived in the gray list of states that are not protected against money theft, are uncooperative. When you listen to government spokesmen, you might assume that Iceland was put on a gray list because America and the British really want to throw stones out of a glass house, b) because of something that happened in a gray prefect and the current government could do nothing about it or c) that foreigners don't understand Iceland's uniqueness. They don't understand how little the population of Icelands would be needed to track money, which is whether it's not really anything a word is doing. The United States and the British may live in a glass palace, and they may not even comment on other nations, but it does not change the status and performance of the Icelanders. It doesn't change the FAFF's comments, and it doesn't change the tremendous reputation with its own shame and damage to us Icelanders. It may also well be suggested that we are involved in earlier and earlier governments, but this does not change that the current government received a warning from the Agency with indications of reform and the current government failed late and badly in the indications, probably due to ideological reasons established in the nation's financial and judicial system, the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u3	V.E.G. President. Man's tendency to think that the world is worse than it is. Certainly, and may be done better through cooperation and conversation as a guide and point out solutions and ways. You see, together we can do so many things. We paint our own image with colors of things as we read in newspapers, news from the Internet, Facebook, Twitter, and even in comments on the news. The objective of these services is rarely to provide a detailed or complete picture of the matter. Thus, the predetermined picture of the situation is shaped each time. October 20th. We welcome European statistical day, the Day of Economics. Today's motto is: 'Look at the facts.' The motto reminds us that democracy must be solidly based on reliable and objective statistics. On the occasion of the day, Haggis opened a new Web site, which will include the host's hosting page. Social references and world goals for the United Nations It contains a broad range of social well - beings. Social authorities give the overall picture of social welfare status within each dimension, and I encourage general members, local representatives, and citizens in general to study and examine this site. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote some conclusions: the proportion of people who suffer discomfort from dirt or pollution in their neighbouring environment decreases. Total income is increasing. The proportion of those who experience lack or significant lack is reduced. The proportion of people receiving financial support of rural society is reduced. People who refuse dental services because of costs decrease. There's more evidence in progress, and we're waiting for it. Let's put the focus where the subjects need to be replaced by the general fragility and statements of all groups of people in the face of few things. So let's do better for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u4	Mr. President. I've been a deputy at the council for another week, and I've actually been doing that twice before. It's a privilege to come in like this, get to know this job, get involved, maybe have a little effect, and get a super salary for a little while. It is also a privilege to go back to one's main life. In this box, I have been serving on a budget board and listened to the reviews of some members who have happened to her. Everyone needs more funding, and everyone needs to get their taxes off. Everyone has a history of better things to do, and often it is about something much better. At times, you may lose your hands, thinking about what you can do. Worse yet, many have long been aware of the folly of the system, or it seems to be, unnecessary costs, unnecessary levels of delinquency, and unnecessary efficiency in general, but nothing happens months or even years. We always look at the same thing. Some nonsense will be rules, e.g. in the design of a project. Try to visit at random somewhere where public members are performing and arrange for someone who works at the place to ask him to tell you as one or two random stories of strange and expensive solutions. I'm only after this that we don't need money. We need to deal with them better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It is as if there are laws and rules that stand in the way, not necessarily, but the kind of work. During the council and in the council, people try to deal with problems involving new laws and new rules, a long arm that needs control. My conclusion is that there is sometimes enough work to do. So I got the only idea I'm going to give the highest. The secretary of finance, sadly not here to accept it - without charge - is setting up a task force in the Ministry of finance. It had specific points on it, to-dos, larger or smaller, and did not stop or rest until the case was resolved successfully. [[The president calls.]] This would be a team of lawyers, not lawyers, but people who know how to act in that language and who could tip him over and give serious benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u5	Mr. President. Yesterday, the editors of the Ministry of Business and Development introduced their plans to handle a simple rule in their councils. This is a celebration. Rules should always have a clear purpose and be as simple and efficient as possible, be encouraging to action without being compromised by the purpose of the principle. The Parliamentary Assembly has proposed a synonym to have a complete assessment of national legislation and regulations, taking into consideration the impact on active market competition. Work will be searched for cooperation with the OECD Economic and Development Organization. Such a assessment would be of great benefit to the Ministers'work, so I expect this restoration to progress during this council. Mr. President. Yesterday was also presented in a consultation bill on the change in competitive law. They'll probably be looking at and reevaluating like everyone else. Here, though, is every reason to step gently to the earth, not losing sight of the importance of consumer protection. They are the shelter of smaller companies and innovation companies against the misuse of larger enterprises on their position and against unwanted employment compression. Strong and active competitive surveillance plays a key role in this. While reevaluating competitive laws, it is important to take all the job life under their regulations, not leaving such articles as the milk industry and standing back from the ideas of leaving other articles in the same way. Mr. President. It must be said that there is no indication of compromising the government's competitiveness; it is difficult to see that it is a special advocate of competition in many areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u6	Mr. President. I would like to use this team to draw attention to Major and the good work being done there. For disabled and long - suffering children, a nursing home is a resting - place. It's part of the Women's and Children's Department of Hospitals and is very close to the Children's Hospital. It is located in Kópavogi in the same block of building as the Land Hospital's Social Services. The child's sleep time in bed is about seven days a month, staying there, five to six children a day at a time, all of them needing a day - to - day service. This requires that a husband be one employee for each child who stays in the bed each time. The main purpose of Richard is to lighten the load of family members of disabled and long - suffering children, to prepare these children a comfortable home, and to provide the services that each one needs. Parents and siblings of disabled children need an opportunity to do things that are not so simple in the case of a chronically ill or disabled child in the home, and it is also welcome to take the day - to - day rest. In Major, there is an interest in expanding the work and receiving increased housing for the services of youths who are now 18 years old. They may even suggest that between the year of marriage and the euthanasia is an unused home owned by a land hospital, which would be so appropriate for this service. At the age of 18, so many privileges of service fall, and there are ways to meet the needs of this group. This is even one step in it. I've asked this subject to the highest level. A health minister, and I would also like to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Minister, as well. a welfare committee to make a trip to the city of Copa and to study the work in the Red Sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u7	Mr. President. Sometimes stories almost surprise you when you put together a few stage shots. I'd like to discuss one of those. First, I'd like to include a summary of what's in it. paritaprevir For example, in the case of a vice president of Reunion, Þorsteinn, the son of Víglundsson, the tax approval of the government, this year the tax pay of a government fund will be about 120 billion dollars. higher than they would have been if tax percentages were the same as they were in the years before collapse. Despite the high criticism of Independence party and forwarding classes on the growths of the left government in 2009,2013, these groups, along with the left, are now taking the lead in establishing these same tax increases. And second of all, I'd like to mention why the government doesn't have the resources to pay taxes. It is that the three government parties are also fully intertwined in their low spending fees and now, when the season is well advanced, there is a decline in the scope of tax physicians as they have slowed down the economy. So it seems that there is a reason for the prayer to be, at least in the time of this government. The tax could not be lowered when external circumstances allowed because they had been spent, if not even, twice, in this period the government of Iceland paid off. A smart woman said, "It doesn't matter what you pay, it's what you get for the money." This is the third stage, the situation in the Hospital Emergency Department, which has, according to reports, often been worse than ever before. And there's a lot to say, Mr. President. This situation is completely unacceptable, whether from the patient's viewpoint, from caregivers, employees, or taxpayers. Government officials can continue to stand here in the Hall of Congress, wash their hands of the situation, and refer to the laws on public finances and the responsibilities of the council. The lesson that we can learn from putting these three illustrations together in history is that a modest increase in spending cannot be a goal in itself. So history does not end well, and such increases cannot be measured on their own. [[The president calls.]] It was the story of an impossible government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm going again and again to talk about exporting unexploded fish. The fact remains that it is reaching 50,000-9,000 tons of exported fish five years ago, about 25,000 tons. This has led to the rise of fish in the auction markets at home, and yesterday, according to figures, a fish codfish of eight plus 650 bucks. in the market. Since fish are not available to fish, many of them are in great trouble because of their lack of access to fish and are also far too expensive. As a result, they even send their people home. Many have become quite limited in their efforts to keep up with this. Many of the exported fish are employed abroad, where access is much less expensive. How amazing that we are now living in this reality! Here's a panel of 5.3% of settlements to be taken out, line shopping, and a lot of other things, and it's all right. This is to strengthen the country's settlements through fishing and fishing. Meanwhile, the second boot leaks and does not seem to be any government will to fix it. Is it a failure of the government, or is it impotence? Do governments no longer have tools in their toolbox to deal with the situation today? I think it's a serious matter that I keep silent when it comes to the silence of government camps. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u9	Mr. President. It's impressive, and unfortunately sad, Margrét Lilja's story on Facebook page we're here too -- Hulda stories from modern times. Margrét Lilja is a 22 - year - old girl who studies sociology at the university. She's in a wheelchair. Margrét Lilja, like other young people, has her dreams and desires, a young woman in the prime of life who does not want to be in a wheelchair, still has no choice. It hits walls every day in a society that calls itself at times the most just and equal state in the world. The headline is, "Can anyone hear me? " There, it appeals to prejudice, silence, indifference, and helplessness that desponderates in everyday life. Much of this is needed either because of thoughtlessness, lack of ambition, lack of understanding, or lack of political commitment. I'm not going to try to count all the talks that have been given on these matters at the council, but most of us seem to be in one matter. Yet, we hear examples that are completely unacceptable and are counted by two evils, hopefully rather as lax on our part than on wickedness. Of course, politicians have limitations. We cannot prevent people from getting sick, feeling sad, or suffering at times, but it is in our power to create situations that make it possible for anyone to live with dignity and pride, that everyone can follow their dreams, share in their daily lives, enjoy himself, engage in studies without ever being cut off or cut off by it, whether it is because of the unmanly principles of Icelandic students or by a clean indifference. So I ask. Councilmen on behalf of this young and courageous woman: Hello, can we hear her?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss some forgotten country roads and forgotten settlements in motion for a transport plan. I would like to challenge the Allied Parliament and Transporter not to betray Aarneshrepp and Stranda for the many-time improvements in order to ensure full wound transport in the community by means of road reforms for the hunting necks of placebo. It is shocking to see these projects again postponed in a motion that allows for a transport plan. If a body of Congress reaches that cold - blooded conclusion, it is one of the most fragile settlements in the country, Aarneshrepp. The people deserve better than this. Transport plans have, in many respects, proved to be meaningless, and multiplies of transportation are repeated when they finally seem to be docked. There is still another suggestion to postpone projects on one of the most dangerous roads in the country, Mount Morgoth Road, also a link to the mountain roof. They were postponed to 2022 but had been on schedule 2020. That's how it's been almost since the turn of the century, always around the corner. This is also the case with many country roads, some of which were in better shape before the human age. It's an unacceptable situation. There must be effort on the maintenance and structure of collection and interfaces that are not being proposed for transport, once again. It takes a change of course. We need action immediately if we want to secure all over the country. As suggested by a transport plan, there is virtually no news of rural maintenance and construction, and it is of great concern to trust in the promises made to the future. The entire Northland West, Westland and Coast are out in the cold. This must be changed. This is where you're sitting. The children who are now humping in school cars through semi-narrowways, by Lakenes, by Sheafa Waterfowl, by urban population, by Dali, Coastal, and others, will be brought up before transport efforts to reach their homelands unchanged. This cannot be the will of the government and the General. Finally, I would like to suggest that the maladies used by school drive be defined as top priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u11	A respectable president. They're always designing and developing something new. Evolution goes on to produce many good things, many good things that help people to live and make them more practical. Today, there is one such issue in the discussion, everything that starts with electricity, electric storms, electric racing bikes, golf bikes, and golf cars. All of this is done to increase the number of people's freedoms to move to different places, to increase transport, to work on energy exchange, to more wholesome transport, and to provide environmental benefits, already to be viewed as a problem. Now we need to start setting rules and laws and try to block this trend because someone might get hurt. In some way, we need to ensure that such important developments are allowed to take place without us jumping, interrupting, and getting involved unless we are careful when there is something real about the problem and that the solution is reasonable based on the underlying problem. Some older citizens have bought electric shuttles that enable them to park and keep their freedom, but now they are causing trouble to import other devices that have walked for a few years because it has become unclear who in the state is to say that they are OK and that people are not dangerous. This is not how we can make it work. Get out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u12	V.E.G. President. It was a happy day yesterday when two government ministers announced the first action to simplify their professional routine. This is an enormously important step, and many others will follow, a three - year plan of action. These measures also highlight effective and just administration. When we are going to develop a powerful job life, which is designed to make a great deal of value for all of us to improve our quality of life, it is important that we simply get our feet started, that the environment is not complicated by our own initiative. That is why it is such an important step and such a big day yesterday that with all our strength at the council, all of us must celebrate it. At the same time, it is appropriate to draw attention to a language that is presented in a confidentiality, where changes are proclaimed that will be the next steps in this simple act of order. I am truly looking forward to working with those in charge who operate in the government and all members of Congress. Each of us should look at the rules that are in force, review them, and point them out if they are no longer needed or if they can be simplified so that our community is more successful. A simple rule of order is indeed a national burden, and the government employed here is lifting a giant in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u13	Mr. President. Last week, I was able to participate in a health - care work group on moral and health - care priorities. This is a very important work, and it should be less than that. Congress officials report that last such work took place in 1998 and concluded with a report that would then be published. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, some of which have completely disappeared. At that time, society has also changed much. We have changed as a community to be a multicultural community. The fourth industrial revolution has begun its introduction and the existing information policy, allowing users to be more involved in health care decisions, has completely changed how we think about these matters and how we should take care of these matters, prevention, health management, attention, walking departments, etc. All of this could be counted. You see, it is very important to discuss these matters, including the following: Because the financial resources of our community are limited and our collective view of priorities and moral values adds to the quality of our society. The next step in this case must be held at a medical assembly, which will be November 15th. and I wonder. Councilmen to participate in it. At this point, there is reason to commend the highest. The health minister and the Ministry for the procedure in this case, and I think we can all look forward to meeting this project in the next spring when a Congress decision is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u14	A respectable president. During my last unsubstantiated inquiry, I asked the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Services why, on the other hand, theorta would need about 70,000 bucks. less than a month's wage, and whether there was something about disability that made them feel that they should get this much lower production. Is it because they have to eat less? What causes the system to be set up like an invalid who needs much less production than low-payers? You people in this government can change this. You can go after, for example. increase in pay, if more favorable for this group. Why is it that autism does not get a right, a quirk correction that everyone else has received? Those who really need her don't get her. How can bodies of government justify the receiving of 50,000,400,000 dollars for the desperate and old - age pensioners? less than low-payers? Why? Why in the world do people have to be discriminated against like that? And another difference lies ahead. The Christmas bonus. There must also be discrimination, apparently just because it can. A merry Christmas bonus so general, but a weak Christmas bonus for older citizens and disability. So properly, he's disabled, it's going to be for a lot of zeros, not a buck for a Christmas bonus. Christmas bonus at TR this year will be about 50,000 bucks. Last year, it was 43,000 k., which had to be cut down and down to zero. Christmas bonus at VR this year will be 92,000. undeserved, nearly twice the size of it. Something is that in our strange soul, we need and we think that we must continue to suffer and act so that people shouldn't get the same thing to make money, not get the same thing in a Christmas bonus. Why on earth? How can we come up with this idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u15	A respectable president. October 18th. published a statement by the National Institute of Mental Services on the basis of the first OPCAT report of the Allegorium agent due to his visit to closed psychiatric centres at Kleppell. It says, by permission of the president: In Iceland, for example, there is a day when people with a mental disorder are not free from freedom, losing rights to decide, forced to use medication, and then forced to take medication. For years the organization has pointed out that these violations of human rights are committed under the cover of a current legal law, where interpretations have been severely against them. In their declaration, they urge governments to respond without delay in view of the indications presented in the Addresser's report. I'm going to give it a whole heart, but I've been saying this since I sat here at the council, in my virgin speech, that I need to change the law. I'd like to please the National Institute of Psychiatry, since it has already begun working on a review of these laws. A panel of members of Congress has been established, which reviews current legal laws, as well as other laws involved in bringing pressure on people who are free - minded on the basis of some form of mental illness. It's a violation of human rights that I've been pointing to since I sat down at a council and it's been a long time to fix. But it is a joy to tell of a wide variety of support here at the council to appoint the committee of consultations I assigned to our last spring. This work is started, and we will also meet with the Council agent next Friday, and other committees, to respond in the best way to the indications of the law-changes or just over the heads of the legislation needed to ensure the best human rights of these groups. The work's already started. I thank the National Institute of Psychiatry for the urgentness, and we will, of course, be in good collaboration with them in the work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u16	Mr. President. During the Council of Europe at the beginning of October, there were a number of crucial discussions, and reports were approved, which will then enter our national legislation. Many of the discussion focused on the rights to escape and save lives in the Mediterranean Sea. The talk I would like to bring to the attention of the world's council today is about the resolution of the council as well as the recognition of sexual harassment and sexual violence associated with gynaecology and birth. It is a joy to know that the European Parliament deals with gender options in health care because as we know in the country related to the important scientific study of the University of Iceland called Women's Atrial History, it is extremely important to map women's health and health outcomes, to increase their knowledge, to address the limitations of women's health well - being and to see how they feel within the health system, whether they are more ill than men and why, whether women are getting worse service, and whether their experiences and treatment within the system are different from the experience and treatment of men. A new report by the Corporate Community also shows that women 50 years of age and older are the majority of the number of micro-organization donors in this country and that women at any given time are 60% of the microenergy pensioners. This is the fact. While the attention of the Icelandic community in recent years has been on young men who have had to go into disability, little or no attention has been given to the fact that disability is a sexual problem and that the story of disability is the story of women, as the author of the report rightly claims. Unfortunately, in recent health policy, little talk about the sexist in the medical politics and more emphasis could have been placed on it than I know it would have been. A health minister is a very good team member of the sexlike bitch, and I encouraged her to do this in his field of work. Back to the European Parliament's report on sexual harassment and violence in connection with gynaecology and birth. [[The president calls.]] It is surprising that at the time of her most sensitive health care program, women need to experience women's repugnant comments and out - of - date views of the sexes during the birth of their children and even sexually harassed by gynaecological examination. [[The president calls.]] That's what we need in this room to fix. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u17	Mr. President. The economy and the standard of living we have in Iceland depend on, and is built on ensuring open access to foreign markets as we provide natural and reasonable access to our markets here. I have claimed here, and think to the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs agree that Icelandic society is more colorful, varied, and more economic because of open communication with other nations. Few countries depend more on foreign transactions than we Icelanders are under the freedom of foreign transactions, and we have good experience with the construction of free trade agreements. Also, it's very important that we be in EFTA and our involvement in the EEA Treaty, perhaps the most important business and economic contract we are involved in. For ten years or so, I've been speaking about the government developing a sort of vacation environment in the North Atlantic, a vacation - trade area with our participation in Iceland, Norway, Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Canada and the United States, and possibly even Britain, if the issues develop in most ways. With such a contract, some 430 million people would be available. In 2017, Iceland brought goods to the countries I mentioned for more than 125 billion and services for 335 billion. We benefited greatly at the service of these countries by some 174 billion, of which about 126 billion were left to business with the United States. I want to go beyond this because I want to develop this communication into other fields, in art and culture, science, education, and health care. A vacation contract may be the first step. I think it's right that Iceland and I make a clear policy when it comes to a vacation trade, a policy based on respecting national sovereignty and self - determination. That's what I'd like to tell you. I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Foreign Minister: What's Iceland's situation with free shops in general and open international trades? How open is an Icelandic economy when it comes to comparing people with other nations? What is our general policy in foreign trades and contracts? Is working on a free trade deal with the United States, as news did recently indicate? And what about Britain, especially if events seem to develop in an apparent direction, that Britain leaves the European Union? What other vacation agreements may be in the water either directly or through our participation in EFTA? Finally: Tel. Secretary of State that there's a realistic political possibility that my dream will come true to form a vacation area with cooperation in the North Atlantic, that Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, the Norwegians, the British, the Americans and the Canadians will join together? Is there a political realistic potential for me to see such a dream come true in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this request and this discussion. This isn't the first time that ever happened. A senator has a word with me on this matter. I'll admit that I've felt that this big business has been an incredibly small time for us. Iceland was one of the poorest countries in Western Europe 100 years ago. We would still be if we had not been allowed access to other markets and if our markets were not open. If people are looking at the Icelandic legend, it's going largely to the point that we're fighting for a free store. Humans tend to forget it. I'll try to answer at this brief time of questions. Senator. Our situation is good. I'm not going through the EEA deal, we talked it over the other day. As a member of the EFTA Free Trade Association, we have made 30 contracts with 41 countries and have a contract in the market of 1.2 billion people. When we were premeditated in EFTA, which we returned in a sheep's jar, our time in organizational adjustments in the organization and emphasises. Since then, a contract with Indonesia has been completed and the Mercosur State has been completed. That's 550 million people. The deal with India, Malaysia and Vietnam is long, there's an update on the South African customs union and an update on a deal with Chile is on its way. We've signed our initiative under a declaration of will to Nigeria. Moldova will soon be here. Or we could discuss a better deal with Canada, which we hope to update. Japan was not specifically asked, which is one of our most important business countries, but we have set up an economic agreement that will hopefully lead to a free trade agreement. We're pushing it. We're getting longer than we've ever made before. We have a two - sided agreement with China, but he was defective in that way so that the Chinese could move goods to us and we didn't. We completed it with my signature and China's customs minister at Selefossi a few months ago so we can export agricultural products, fish farms, and other things. It has great interests for us. Hv. A senator asks about our position in behalf of other nations, and there is nothing more to say than that we are very liberal when it comes to business matters. When men were considering applying for membership in the European Union, they saw much difference. If we walk in the European Union, we'd be moving into a customs environment with 26% of the freedom toll, but we have 90%. In other words, if we walked in the European Union, the price here would be raised, on which we have no toll on a vast scale other than the natural scale that it would have taken a lot to complicate the toll environment and increase customs. We've worked hard to promote the economic and commercial cooperation of Iceland and the United States. We have stressed the importance of trying to start a growing store, but we also have access to E1 and E2 visas for Icelandic investors and professionals. The other day, I was in Washington, and I met a lot of senators, both Democrats and Republicans, pushing after it. We know that my meeting with Mikes Pompeos and I were set up in February, and then Mike Pence, and we were conducting a financial organization in the Cape. We are far beyond our reach, but we can do better if possible, and we will follow through on that. As we know, Britain has for obvious reasons been our priority. However, it has always been known that the British will not be able to negotiate until they have left the European Union, but I think we have provided as much foundation as possible. We will follow through. Idea of what? A senator is very good, but we do it no other way than that everyone else wants to be with us. On the other hand, we are constantly working to improve our communication with those kingdoms. We are, for example. ... with a group on Greenland controlled by ex-Profector Acquisitionsson of Skarphéðinsson, as well. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Konásdoddótttir. They will soon offer proposals for increased communication between Iceland and Greenland. An Esmship has opened the way to Maine, where there is now a gate that will connect with this, and there is much more to mention that we may be able to do better afterwards. [[The president calls.]] We're not going to this deal alone, we're going to have all the others with us, but until then we're going to do everything we can to strengthen and strengthen our bond, not just commercially, but also commercially. A senator referred to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u19	Mr. President. I appreciate this need and timely discussion. The importance of our relationship with the United States is not widely understood. A minister has stressed the importance of strengthening it, and I support his efforts and actions in this regard. I'm glad to hear that the president of the United States thinks it is possible to negotiate a vacation contract with Icelanders. Surely everyone realizes that such a contract depends on various factors. In fresh memories are the vice president of the United States, Mikes Pence, outside Cape of the past month. There he made it clear that the U.S. government has not considered Iceland to be an option for the Chinese government to take part in the project by Belti and break. On that occasion, vice president spoke of Iceland's position in this regard as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs felt the need to correct matters publicly. Yet, the vice president was just succeeded in meeting with the minister of foreign affairs when he held this press conference. Doesn't the Minister want to use this opportunity to tell us what he said to the vice president of the United States in Cape of Iceland regarding the Chinese initiative?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u20	Mr. President. I'm not going to be against free business and good cooperation between countries. Of course, I would point out that we are in many ways in such a relationship with many nations. I give my name to the Hoyevík deal, to the Northern Union, to the EEA agreement and to the Western states. Of course, we can strengthen it even more. But this one was asked if everyone wanted to join. In fact, there may be two reasons why this is not a vacation agreement with the United States. First, in the United States the demand for agrienvironment schemes - which would have been the main target of such agreements? Second, the United States has simply not had much interest in such a contract. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke of the country's role as the country's increase of opportunities, not the number of them, and I deeply agree with him. At times, however, business interests need to be considered to be a factor against the long - term interests of nations. I think, for example. It's very risky to mix business interests with defenses, as I think it is obvious to the highest. Secretary of State has been doing a conversation with the United States. [[The point is, How do you know?]] I have also found that members of Congress and other influential members of the Independence Party see opportunities in chaos, not in better relationships with nations. I can name Bfenit, even extreme warming, Trumps's instability. Independents have wanted to lean on the United States in spite of its unrest, seeing an opportunity at Bgret instead of congregating with the European countries, which I believe are, in any case, much more exhilarating. They are our neighbors, and they are the most like us in culture, and these are the most powerful nations in terms of future challenges regarding disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u21	Mr. President. The senator's idea of a free trade area between countries at the North Atlantic is of interest. That there are many things to think about, and I'm going to stick to three things, the rights of the workers, food and environment shops. As much emphasis must be placed on the rights of workers as on protecting the rights of the brain, the flow of capital and reserve. Though there are rich, developed kingdoms, the situation of workers is a very different one. Across the Atlantic Ocean, unions were systematically broken down in the 1980's by the modern - day United States, and they have never recovered since then. It needs to follow the advice made by the World Work Office on the free trade agreements that the tools to resolve conflict are clear. The countries mentioned by the senator have a completely different approach to food trade. The United States has, for example, the United States of America. To be marketed for their agricultural products via free trade agreements. In many cases, these products are produced by methods that are carbon - based in Iceland, for example, to form chlorate chicken meat, to use hormones in meat and milk production, as well as to feed antibiotics. This needs to be considered. Farmers in this country have often said that they are not shy about competition, but they are playing the same game. Icelandic farmers do not produce food by shoveling on expensive antibiotics and growth hormones. In times where the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we must have to install the green glasses in making these contracts. Do we want to make an easy business that leads to an increase in transport between countries? I have much doubt that there's a lower carbon track of yogurt produced in Wisconsin than on Selephoss. However, there is great opportunity for such a contract to facilitate the export of green solutions to companies that export equipment, e.g. in a fishing road that reduces waste and uses less energy. Environmental issues and particularly climate issues must be considered in the preparation of free trade agreements. Let us, then, be able to do so, for there are many things to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u22	Mr. President. I don't think I'm going to start talking about business and business, but I don't think it's a matter of life for a community like Iceland that we're dealing with the commercial, business, culture, and all the perfunctory things that have been said. I, however, wondered, and wanted to catch the ball from it. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, whether or not we have enough activity to maintain environmental and climate protection in our community among nations and including the business community. It is a special opportunity now to see if it is not time and opportunity to set rules for all of our international agreements on conditions due to international commitments in climate action. The decision would be similar to the rules we make in most of our business agreements to respect human rights. We may not have followed these requirements properly, but we should accept them. There is no point in having a law that is simply empty. That's at least The choice now to add climatics, follow them carefully, and create a system where the conditions are observed, both for climate matters and less than for human rights. You see, a business venture is not supposed to be a void but a social responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u23	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about free trades in the North Atlantic, and thank you for the voter, okay? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, the discussion and the highest. The minister of the Foreign Minister, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, in charge of his insurrection. It is fascinating to hear the emphasis on improving cooperation and cooperation with the nations involved. We have recently agreed with a law on measures for the passage of Britain from the European Union, a warrant to establish a legal agreement for the Member States and the European Economic Area Convention and between the EFTA countries and the United Kingdom. The question then is, What will be the outcome? Of course, we have much to do with business dealings with Britain. Free trade agreements in general are not only important but we need to be an exported nation and way of promoting business and international cooperation necessary for us, whether we have two-sided or in partnership with other countries, as we know through the EFTA partnership. Mostly, we've made these contracts outside the European Union through the EFTA partnerships, so we're party to a number of non-profit contracts, and some are in a car shop, like the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs went well. Then, of course, we have a double partnership to make China, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. In the past, I think it has become more challenging to negotiate free trade agreements where markets are marketed, profiteering, and general standard of living, as well as to think that negotiations with Canada are an example. Not only is it interesting but it may be appropriate to consider this area in the general way. The apocalyptic throws forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u24	Mr. President. Thank the advocate for taking this matter on the program. Of course, we Icelanders should always be on the watch to strengthen and strengthen our relationships with other countries. I think it is also appropriate to bear in mind that the states specifically mentioned in the inquiry, the pros and cons of making vacation camps, that we are in a very close relationship with most of the countries, perhaps the least of the United States when it comes to a vacation store. My opinion is that at times it is wise not to rush through the stream and that for many reasons we are even closer to the European Union. In terms of the possibility of making vacation contracts with the United States, I think it is very important for people to wonder what America's priorities are when they make vacation contracts and whether they focus on our priorities. The page of the U.S. Department of Agriculture discusses that the United States has made 20 free business contracts with other countries. The main focus is to open up opportunities for American agricultural products, to sell to these countries, and as it is called, to destroy all business barriers, whatever their names are called. And it's a question of whether the government would agree to seek a vacation contract with the United States, where it can be expected that this demand will be indiscriminate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for this discussion and Minister for participating in it. We're talking free trade deals, and I cut by one number that hit me a lot. There was 26% of tax freedom available to the European Union, but we have 90%. If we were in the European Union, we'd get only 26% profit from it. I think this is just a confirmation that we shouldn't look at the European Union, not even a horny eye, but just thank you very much that we're not on our way in there. Obviously, that's not an option. Also, a free trade deal with Britain is not something on the agenda because the story of endless life, Bgret, continues and seems to have no end. It seems that understanding the European Union is very difficult. And America? Yes, but at the same time, the Chinese are with Belti and a runway. But what about Russia? It's a little strange that we participated in a business venture with Russia in cooperation with the European Union because the Russians went into Ukraine. Somehow, however, countries such as Faeroe Islands and others have been able to maintain business agreements with Russia without any change. I say for my part that we're strange in that we may take out one war and say, "We're doing business now, but then there's another war, like Turkey, and the Americans are running away and leaving the Kurdada like a target for Tyre, and no one seems to want to set up business pressure because of it. Then, of course, there are human rights of workers and only human rights. In these contracts, we must protect ourselves from them too. We know there's a pot broken in many states. But likely none of the kingdoms we are considering today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u26	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor for this discussion and the highest. Secretary of state for the indentation. Foreign business and communication are of utmost importance to us, as everyone has discussed here, and are the key to our prosperity and success. You can say that again, but I think it's very important to look at all eight of these materials as we have. Experience shows that we have an amazing success in reaching contracts far and wide and that, in fact, we are better off in alliances than we can see, but so is our success. What I wanted to tell you is that at the same time we have to keep our interests in perspective, especially in the fishing industry, industry, and mentalism, but we also have interests in other sectors, such as agriculture. At times, we have been wrong in our dealings and contracts about agriculture. We've canceled one-sided toll parties, thus throwing away a possible contract stand. We have no mind about the size of markets, and at times we have allowed as many pounds and tons against our pounds and tons, which sometimes seems quite unfair. I remind you, we don't have to be ashamed of not importing agricultural products, because we're moving in a lot of agricultural products, and I don't think any nation is as dependent on the import of all kinds of foods as we already are. In addition, I remind you of the importance of making contracts like this to keep open the possibilities that we don't see, i.e. that negotiations are reasonably open so that temporary experimental projects can be carried out to develop things. We're supposed to be able to develop an export based on purity, image, freshness and speciality. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to break it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u27	Mr. President. I was interested in how this discussion began, i.e. how to answer the highest. Ministers. He was talking less about the idea than more about special pet projects. They review how foreign affairs have been among them in recent years. A year and a half ago, they used the highest. Ministers and members of the party every chance to strike and speak down the EEA agreement and our cooperation with the European countries. It is enough to mention a rather interesting and pleasant conflict between the world's highest source of conflict. The minister of the minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son and Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir, a member of the Parliament, was chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Then came a pack of three energy, and they had to fight in Valhalla. The contract was then spoken up, and nothing more was found than a European partnership. It's been a couple of months now, and it's back to the old note. Rather, they have to face two - side agreements with states that are in a very big crisis in foreign affairs. I'm asking if it's time to go to the highest level. The minister of state and members of the Independence Party finally take a stand based on national interests rather than trying to take advantage of foreign affairs to recover what they have lost on one side and the middle party on the other. [[Up front.]] I merely point out what trouble the nations may face when partymen put their interests ahead of the nation. It is enough to look to Britain and the United States in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u28	Do you know anything...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u29	Give a speaker a good sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u30	Mr. President. We are in discussions about free trade agreements with certain northern states that seem to be a great dream. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. Instead of discussing free trade agreements, we are discussing his ideas and dreams of a free trade deal with those countries. As mentioned in this discussion, we have a very good partnership with the North Atlantic in the area of commerce, nature protection, education, culture, technology and science. We're in a very strong Norwegian partnership. We are in the Western Council, a unique area of consultation in the area of Westnoric culture. We have the Hoyvík deal, which is also a unique contract between two countries, and we have vacation contracts through the EFTA- treaties that translate business to 1.2 billion people. And we also have a unique vacation contract with China that has, like, one. leads to an enormous number of tourists from China to the United States and to the export of goods and knowledge from Iceland. As I say, we are here on a bit of a peculiar debate and speculation that is characterized by ideas at present. A senator, as well as a rather open cheeky speaker. A minister of state who knows that I've talked very quickly about the possibility of making some sort of free trade negotiations with the United States and at the same time, we've emphasized the importance of promoting business with the United States. When we talk openly about these ideas, I feel that there are a lot to be forgotten about to create the impact on an Icelandic agricultural field. What are the ideas of both the highest? Secretary of state and what. þm. Óli Björn Kálsson on the effect of a free trade deal with the United States on Icelandic agriculture, a free trade deal with a state that, unfortunately, makes certain agricultural policies less acceptable than Europeans? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When it comes to free trade contracts, it is important to make such agreements with countries that respect basic rights, free labor movements, democracy, justice and human rights, to ensure the environmental impacts - excuse, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u31	The hour of speech is long over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u32	That's what I've always stressed in all my conversations about vacation contracts and moving on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u33	The President reminds us to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u34	A respectable president. It is so remarkable that business has been the main peace machine on earth in the past hundred years, at least. for quite some time. It's not only remarkable but it's also if you look at where the power lay for the year - to - year centuries. At that time, a relationship between nations was strengthened by marriages under the rule of kings, but now it is done by commercial agreements. Of course, such agreements are not reliable; these are examples of commercial wars or serious conflicts involving commercial interests, especially when it comes to questions about resource control. But because business agreements have been our strategy in modern times to deal with the power available in international politics, we should, of course, use it as best and best we can to use this effective tool in the fight for world peace. The business agreements that we are involved in include the terms of human rights that need to be more emphasised. We've been making business deals with a state where we know that human rights are not being handled well enough. The terms of a business agreement should clearly be against, but nothing is done. However, this is the best device we have, and because of the problems we face in climate change, we should take advantage of the opportunities there to get right into climate agreements for the future, use this tool to achieve success in the environment, for example. can create different facilities where our business territory has less spells for carbon emissions than we do. It creates business differences that we should take in some way and that we could do through business agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u35	A respectable president. This is where we discuss free trade agreements in the North Atlantic, taking the initiative. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son. We've heard an answer. The minister of foreign affairs, the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, and various views have been presented in the discussion. The importance of Iceland's free trade agreements has been made both through the European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the European Economic Area, as well as other agreements that provide access to the Icelanders with a market of about 1.2 billion people, as shown in response to the highest standard. Secretary of state. It has been observed that by means of the government, it is being developed to establish an economic agreement with the United States, allowing it to be accessed to a hundred million markets by Icelandic production, intelligence, and other products of which we are very proud and believe there is a great potential for success in the United States. If I just focus on the North Atlantic, and what we have today, there are funds in our internoristic cooperation, such as. The Western loan fund, Weststnordenfronden, allows for increased cooperation and cooperation in economic fields between countries. There's Iceland and other northern countries, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. This is an opportunity that has not been new to Iceland very much in the past few years, i.e. To enter the budget for SMEs which work in pioneers and strengthen the core units in Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. There are opportunities that we should make better use of as we work to examine a dream. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son on free trades in the entire North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u36	A respectable president. I have to say, at the moment, I feel that this special debate between the Independence Party suggests that the independents want to direct the discussion from the core of the problem, which is deeper, wider and more cooperation in the EEA area and the internal market, and the further possibilities for us Icelanders in that area. We on the paradise project predicted that the Independence Party would, including, be the case with the independent party. Fearing the Central Party, going back to the old course of energy after we helped them through that predicament. It's going down at the council today. Let us just discuss the difference between two - sided cooperation, business cooperation, and international cooperation on the other hand. According to Björn Bjarnason's fact report on the EEA, no two-way cooperation replaces the EU's internal market. The report also says that international courts offer smaller countries, such as us Icelanders, greater protection. I'm pointing at the Icesave case. The EU also has plenty of free trade agreements with other countries, in fact, dozens of countries. The countries of the North Atlantic that have been identified are not very likely, at least not Norway, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland, to sacrifice the situation they already have. Have they asked that question? In my opinion, it's all due to a degree of narrow vision within the Independence Party for fear of the Central Party. Such a deal would in my opinion add little to what we have. A report by Björn Bjarnason's son says that our independence and national sovereignty are fully respected by the EU's internal market and, consequently, our entire relationship. Should we, then, have common rules in the inner market and try to improve there, or are we going to live by British rules? I have heard no better than that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, along with many members of the Independence Party, will adopt them. What does it mean to adopt British rules regarding competition, health regulations, consumer protection, the environmental priorities of the United States and the British? [[The president calls.]] Is that what the Independence Party wants in all of this itsbram bolt? [[The president calls.]] And has the Independence Party discussed these matters with the government colleagues?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u37	Mr. President. I must say, I am amazed at this speech by the Chairman of the Archipelago. We're not talking about canceling the EEA deal. There's a lot of evidence that the Independence Party's policy is to support and strengthen the EEA contract. [[Up front.]] You don't have to be afraid of that, do you? A senator, no less. [[I...]] [[Up front.]] President. What I'm talking about here, but it's clearly not because of the fear of the dog. A senator is increasing our opportunities for foreign trade, increasing our opportunities in dealing with other nations, Canada, the United States, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. Hv. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttir, who was led in an effort to establish vacation contracts, the three - sided contracts of Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland, in 2015. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do so, but we will continue, and we will continue, the Independence Party, and we have been led by the efforts to ensure an open and free society, open a more open society than the model Union and its restoration in the European Union, thank you very much. [[The point is, it's just...]] What a delicate matter that is! Councilmen of the Revolution and the United States of America, when there is talk of raising opportunities, increasing opportunities, and opening Iceland even further instead of locking itself in the model country of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u38	A respectable president. It's different for me before. I want to answer first. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. Mike Pence and I were not discussing these matters, and everyone in the economy was aware of what we were discussing, so there is nothing more to discuss. People in general have been provided with a free trade in Iceland, but here came the leaders of the Controversies, the restoration and the Controversy, and exposed themselves. These groups on their policy list that eliminate our freedom of business to Iceland by joining the European Union's customs alliances have no interest in further business agreements, not anyone. They're carrying on this table that I've spoken the EEA deal down. When I came in, a respectable president, I immediately got into it - and why. A senator here keeps calling out for good. þm. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnar, was with me in the government when I set up a work in a reporting form, a gang for our good, to protect our interests in the EEA, and to ensure that we maintained the two most effective systems. [[Up front.]] Who took down the defense system in Brussels? European Medicines Agency, when applying for involvement in the European Union. These are the facts. Those who have spoken down the EEA contract have always been EU, including by claiming that we take 90% of the types that are pure and clever, as everyone knows. And now -- again calls for what. þm. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnsdóttir. [[Up front.]] Why would that be? The conclusion of this discussion is very clear. The sort that call themselves liberal is at least not liberal in business. What has marked us Icelanders is that we have joined together in fighting for our free trade in Iceland. Here we have two groups who do all they can to minimize our freedom of business and simply eliminate it by joining a tax alliance. This discussion today certainly showed that it is black in white. [[The president calls.]] I have to admit that I didn't expect to see this nerve tremor over a very special discussion about a vacation store, but these groups decided in a memorable way to expose themselves completely. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, what's the attitude?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u39	The vote applies to 7 mg. 82. g. Parliaments that say that when choosing one person, they are alone and alone, not contradicting it. According to Article 1. Prosecution, No. 85/1997, shall be named by the Committee to President at the election. Last night at a meeting of the Presidency Committee, one was approved to appoint the present agent, Tryggvi Gunnarsson. Since other appointments have not been passed to president within the period of the law, he alone is elected. The President has decided that the vote will be made by the vote system, such as by Congress. It can be tied to a secret written vote. The vote system will now be set so that the tablets on the walls will show only the voters, not the votes, but the votes. The same applies to the computer storage memory. Those who choose the Gunnarsson push the yes button, but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked do not vote. No button is inactive. A yellow light on the middle button of the council when a vote has been paid, no matter which button you have pressed. Similarly, only yellow lights are on the wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u40	President. This is a request for a justice minister to report the responsibility of children's rights under the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and Other Permissions. So that what has been clearly presented in my work and in the other members of their councils as advocates of children in order to guide their children's rights in their work, there is certain uncertainty as to where the responsibility really lies, namely, to enforce the laws and regulations in the country that would be very good if carried out. What has been reported, both by UNICEF and by the Children's agent, is that the offense is primarily in the induction of this law and is accompanied by it. This gives us clear answers to the rights of children, who is responsible for enforcing them so that we at the council, as members of the children, and as members of the Parliament, can do our part in order to ensure that the law is carried out, that the rights of children are protected, and put first, as stated in the law of children's rights under the United Nations Convention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u41	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The European Parliament and the Council's two directives and two Council Regulations and the Council's Regulations for financial services will be adopted in the EEA Convention. Directive 2014/65/EU, called the MifID II Directive, and Regulation 600/2014/EU, MiFIR, includes changes in financial market regulations. However, the MifID II Directive contains several modifications from the correct date of the MiFID sentence. The new system has a broader set of standards, taking into account technological innovations, and including others. to increase business transparency with financial initiatives and to sharpen investment protection. MifID II leads to changes in current employment permits rules, the trade structure of government companies, the planning requirements for stock companies and new business sectors, to name something. The 2014/65/ESB standard, MiFIR, includes more comprehensive requirements than the MIFID I used for pre- and post-traumatic transparency, and the provision of power sources for the marketing, distribution or sale of certain financial products and the composites of specific criteria. Substitution sources can also include some financial functions or financial projects. The 2016/1034 directive postpones the time period in which Member States have announced that they have implemented sufficient regulations on the administrative districts due to MiFID II for one year. At the same time, it involves minor adjustments to other MiFID II requirements. Protocol No. 2016/1033 postpones the intake of MiFIR by one year in the EU, i.e. to January 3, 2018. The value of related rules for specific other types of financial services is also postponed. At the same time, it involves small adjustments in other requirements of MiFIR. The aim is to introduce the European Commission with new global legislation on the market for financial improvement. Its bill is aimed at making contributions during the current autumn Summit. I propose, most respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u42	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 190/2019 which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2016/011 in financial services and consumer protection will be set up in the EEA Convention. The directive contains regulations on how to make and how to use reference indicators that lay the basis for various financial agreements. Among other things, the way of working with controls, licenses, methods in the processing of reference indicators and monitoring are recommended. The protocol is designed to address conflicting issues and to promote reliable reference methods. I propose, most respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u43	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The European Parliament and Council Directive and the two Council Regulations and the Council's Council for financial services will be adopted into the EEA Convention. Directive 2013/36/EU and EU Regulation No. The 575/2013 form the lumbar spine in the European Community legislation on credit institutions and stock markets. These failed to deal with the legislation of financial institutions established by the international financial crisis, and international criteria for precautionary measures for loans, called Basel III standard, were introduced into Europe. The project is aimed at trusting financial stability, especially with increasing demand for the quantity and quality of financial companies to better equip them to cope with difficulties in business. EU Regulation No. 2017/2395 changed EU Regulation No. 575/2013, taking into account the international accounting standard IFRS 9. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u44	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 72/209 which measures the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation 2017/1369 from July 4, 2017 of the sentence frame for energy markings and the implementation of Directive 2010/0/EU to be adopted in the EEA Convention. Energy-related products are recommended in Regulation 2017/1369. The rules allow for the meaning of these products and the granting of standard product information on energy efficiency, their use of energy and other resources when used. The Regulation also contains additional information on goods, enabling clients to select more energy efficient products to reduce their energy consumption. The directive replaces Directive 2010/0/EU with the same materials introduced by law No. 7/2015, the change in the law on the meaning and details of the energy use of appliances, etc., No. 72/1994. The rules have basically the same values range as the directive, which includes updated and explained the technical progress of the past few years in the energy efficiency of products. The rules apply to all products offered in the inner markets for the first time, including those used to be imported and offered for the first time in the inner market. In this Regulation the scale of energy markings is renewed where a more detailed distinction is required from technological development in energy efficiency, thus increasing the efficiency of energy markings. In accordance with the Regulation, the current regulations apply to certain products that have been implemented through the implementation of the directive until they are removed by the new regulations on the basis of the Regulation. Manufacturers and immigrants will need to enter the European Economic Area under the Regulation to document their products that carry energy markings in a so-called EPREL database. Icelandic immigrants are most distributed but do not import goods into the EEA, so the directive is not burdensome to them. The implementation of the Regulation calls for changes in the law of No. 72/1194, onmarks and information related to energy consumption products. The bill is being built by the Directorates of Professional Road and Development, which will bring this group into cooperation with Human Invasion Institute. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, there will be a suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u45	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The European Parliament and Council Directive 54/0513, for the change in the Directive 98/70/EC for the quality of gasoline and diesil fuels, and for the change in European Parliament Directive and Council 2009/28/EC for increasing the use of energy from renewable sources and for the change and decline of Directives 2001/77/EC and 2003/0/EC, to the EEA Convention. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the 2015/1513 Council contains regulations that include covering up the environment. in addition to increasing fuel reporting thresholds, change the minimum reductions in greenhouse gas emissions using biofuels and measures to address indirect changes in agriculture due to biofuel production. The directive makes some changes to the Directive 98/70/EC. A law was added that Member States can authorize air supply of biofuel fuel to contribute to the reductions in greenhouse gases set out in Directive 98/70/EC. It is also possible for Member States to achieve the obligation to maximise biofuel production from grains and other starchous plants, sugar, oil plants and plants which are mainly designed to produce energy. It is stated that certain additional data should follow annual sources, including preliminary assessment of emissions from biofuels due to indirect changes in land use. The 2015/1513 directive also makes some changes to Directive 2009/28/EC adopted by law No. 40/2013, about renewable fuels in transport, and the Regulation No. 870/2013, on collection of data on production, import, storage and sale of fuels and monitoring of energy share of renewable fuels for total transport. The changes require several changes to the law No. 40/2013. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, there will be a suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u46	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to confirm for Iceland to the decision made by the European Commission No. 91/2019, which measures the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/943 from 8 June 2016 for the protection of confidential information on expertise and trade, so-called business secrets, against illegal development, use and publication, will be taken up in the EEA Convention. The 2016/943 directive contains guidelines on the protection of confidential information about expertise and trade against illegal acquisitions, use and publication. It aims to harmonise the European Community regulations on business secrets and particularly those involved in the definition of business secrets, the action required to protect such secrets, their legitimate use as and illegal use. Then the directive will specifically take steps to preserve confidentiality in the event of a lawsuit. The directive calls for new business secrets laws. A contract of bill for the implementation of the directive is being made at the Department of Professional Road and Development. A bill to a new overall business secret law will help you understand the legitimate use of business secrets and the basis for practical application to be illegal. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u47	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 125/2019 which measures the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/17/EU from 4 February 2014, on the credit agreements for consumers associated with houses and on the change of 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and EU Regulation No. 1093/2010, will be set up in the EEA Convention. The Council and Council Directive 2014/7/EU contains rules on the granting of interest loans to consumers for employment and changes the Directives of 2008/48/EEC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation No. 1093/2010. The situation is that much of the subject's regulations have been adopted in Icelandic rights by law No. 118/2016, about a consumer mortgage. The aim of the model is to ensure consumer protection during presentation, counselling, hosting and sharing property loans to consumers. At the same time, the goal of the species is to promote responsible loans and to support the excessive debt of consumers. The collection of the bill at the current Parliament is aimed at completing the directive's implementation in Icelandic rights by changing the law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016. The trade of credit servers should be added across borders and the role of ESAs. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u48	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 210/219, which recommends that the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/625, on official control and other public activities aimed at ensuring that the law on food and food and the rules on the health and well-being of animals, plant health and plant protection products, is applied and changed in several other regulations. The directive and decision of the European Parliament and the Council will be recorded in the EEA Convention. The objective of the Regulation is to transfer follow-up decisions from other regulations to one Regulation that contains all the food chain monitoring measures as a whole. This leads to harmony between conventions and safe food management, as well as simplicity. The implementation of the Regulation will include benefits due to the integrated monitoring system for the entire food chain, increased transparency and responsible for the Community's legislation through the publication of organizational and follow-up data. By means of the implementation of the Regulation, there will be a regular transport process that contributes to a more complete and simple rulework. At the same time, the process involves more flexibility in the practice of laboratorys, more intensive processes, and more intensive monitoring for which companies and monitoring agencies will benefit. It is also the purpose of the Regulation to ensure that the official government of the European Union is in agreement and that institutions, systems, and measures are in place to ensure that regular food activities are carried out. Finally, the Regulation has detailed requirements for saving, risk management, induction of monitoring, internal assessment and EU-registered. Changes in law No. 93/1995, food control laws, no. 22/1994 Laws on slaughtering and slaughtering products, No. 96/1997, and marine products law, No. 55/1998. It can also be assumed that ocial and other official activities aimed at ensuring that the laws on food and food and the health and welfare of animals, plant health and plant protection products are applied. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u49	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym of government clearance to validate Iceland's total financial cooperation between the EFTA and Indonesia signed on December 16, 2018. The Convention guarantees a broad toll-free market access to all of Iceland's major exports. Indonesia is the fourth largest country in the world with some 260 million inhabitants, and Indonesia has a 16th - largest economy in the world. The export of 2018 was 175 million, mainly seafood, and the import of the same year was 1,274 million, mainly electrical devices, shoes, and clothing. In that case, Icelandic companies have sold technological knowledge in the field of geologic quality in Indonesia. The content of the contract is divided into 12 chapters, 17 Annexes and a declaration of cooperation by the Member States. The contract also includes... Compromise, trade of services, investments, protection of mental rights, public shopping, competition, trade, and sustainable development, as well as the standard regulations for a joint committee and the solution of issues. A more detailed article is being prepared for the contract in the Parliamentary arrangement. The EFTA, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland have now made 29 free trade contracts with 40 states and with the whole state of government, including the Indonesia Convention. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second session. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u50	Mr. President. I would like to comment on this suggestion. As one report shows, Indonesia is the world's fourth largest country, with some 260 million inhabitants, and it is rapidly increasing. Economic growth in the country was in the first part of the year about 5.1% and has been nearing the last few years according to the World Bank. Therefore, Indonesia is clearly an important business country and has its importance only in the future. The country is the size of an continent, and it is rich in resources with varied employment roads, increasing education levels, and other opportunities are being made to increase the business, as well as the interracial interaction of the nations in cultural areas as well. So I find this suggestion specific and that we are reaching the point. In view of the size of Indonesia, a small business is being taken today, and as it shows, it was mined in 2018 175 million. K. From here, seafood was mainly gone, and we bought products for 1,274 million. K., mostly electronic devices, shoes, clothing. There are, of course, many other opportunities. There is a geologic adverse event in Indonesia and much like it among the nations. There you can do much better. There are a number of factors, such as others, especially with regard to human rights, sustainable development, and a number of sectoral activities, and the importance of focusing on creating new employment opportunities and improving living conditions, as well as promoting health, security, and environmental protection, as shown in the report. It also states that treaties guarantee commitment to support and contribute to the development of the UN policy on sustainable development up to 2030. I think it's very important that we also have that conversation with Indonesia and that we can supply our knowledge into it. I think this may mean a lot more communication than just hard business. I strongly encourage it and recommend the agreed proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator, though long distances between countries, has great potential for cooperation. Hv. A candidate in particular referred to the chance of geological events, and there we have experience in sharing, not only in order to have access to good and stable energy, but especially in the world's fight against climate. This is one of the countries that we have considered especially in the past, and we have worked to draw closer to one another. Hv. A senator mentioned hard business, and I think it's underappreciated - business is not merely a trade between products and money, as well as service and money. Business means getting to know one another better, cultivating relationships that are more often than not, and perhaps usually, leading to good things. Thank you. A member of the body, I agree with that, and it's good to know that there's a problem. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for the National Fund Act, but it's a bill written at the Ministry of Economics and Economics, including the U.S. taking into account the proposals made by a experts committee appointed early in 2017 to discuss this subject. The bill was submitted to the last council and taken from the Economic and Business Committee to the 2nd. but no further discussion of that council. The recycling of the bill has taken into account all the changes made by more than a proportion of the Economic and Business Committee (ECCs) in the management of the case at the General Assembly, but in other respects its requirements are the same as before. I think it'll be good if I make that change at the end of my talk. First, I'm going to go to the end of this bill a little further. There is reason to mention that in the government's declaration of policy, a clear resolve is given to set up a national fund. It should be kept in mind that in a five - year financial program for 2020, and indeed also in the budget for 2020, the estimated financial impact has already been expected from the national funds and projects associated with it, i.e. Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuables. In that case, this bill is a kind of encore bill of the 2020 budget when it appears a second time. I made an explanation of all the fundamental elements of the bill when I gave the report late last year. Yet, in the interest of the discussion now, it is appropriate to briefly review the main points involved in the purpose and arrangement of a national fund. Otherwise, I refer to my first talk on the subject and a detailed piece of paper with the bill. Then I will also consider some of the viewpoints that have been presented in discussions on the subject. As I mentioned in my introduction at the time of the earlier collection of the bill, it is based on the attitude of using good years and favorable conditions in the national economy to show concern and responsibility in government matters, thus making the best of the future. The bill suggests that this will be the source of a war fund called National Fund. The sea will be designed to play the primary role of becoming a nation's shock - defense, when government funds are exposed to financial contributions in connection with major unsurpassed economic events, either because of failure or because of the costs of action that the government has considered inevitable to resort to following a shock or to protect it. This will build up resistance to cope with extreme financial events without leading to a large and blocked debt or the increase in taxation of the public, impaired public activity, or the acute instability of the economy at a time when difficulties arise. With the bill, the plan is to prepare for less - than - a - minute failure equipment, which shows that the story has crossed over every few decades than sometimes at longer intervals. It could be massive natural disasters that could be heavily damaged by edification, transport, hydropower, and geo-engineering, or so large. It is also not a result of the launching that there may also be serious pollution or environmental accidents, eco-efficiency changes, disease epidemics or other adverse events that could cause serious economic damage beyond the other level of damage, such as Iceland's natural disaster insurance. It could also be an event or situation of a completely different nature, such as the result of a major network attack on Iceland's important infrastructure, terrorism, or other types of damage now completely unknown or unpredictable. As a community, we need to recognize that our history will not always be a shock. We can do this by thinking ahead of our offspring, not merely to shoulder the burdens of a disaster that may fall but to endeavor to contribute something to it. Unpredictability and uncertainty in the magnitude of such major accidents means that it is almost impossible for governments to prepare for the consequences of ordinary budgeting and budgets in a way that differs from caring for the appropriate collections of funds, as well as the running of state funds on a reliable and sustainable basis. The purpose of legislation to set up a precaution is also to realize that in the coming years government funds will be able to make substantial new incomes of money or resource use costs from energy sources for the use of energy resources in the administration of the state. At first, they will earn most of their income from Landing. Here, though, it should be noted that there are some factors that can affect the income of this kind, such as changes in energy farming, loss of international energy markets, and changes in technology. There is no guarantee of them in the long run. As far as I'm concerned, it is wise for us to arrange such a new income that will not be used like any other source of income to cover the increase and regular national expenditures. In addition, in recent years their growth has been so fast that there should hardly be a need to carry more into that stream if you can allow yourself to say it that way, as many feel, has become a fairly strong river compared to the discussion at the council. This may be because in recent years we have managed to make good economic growth a success of building wood and doing better in the combination, doing what we are going to do together in public business, and at the same time we have been able to correct the very debt of debt when we feel it is wise to add this bill. There is no question about the amount of money available at this stage, but the bill is temporary, with the increase in the income of the state budget each year of about 10 billion dollars. The bill expects the National Fund's budget to be essentially made so that the funds are made from a government fund that responds to the income of the next year's revenues and rent payments from energy companies. The fund then invested money in foreign stocks according to investment policy established by its government by the Minister's approval. The funds of the fund will be expected in five years'financial programmes for the government and the budget. In the event of an unforeseen shock of the above kind and the meeting may suggest that the General agree with a synonym that the government of the National Fund extended a contribution to the State Fund to a contribution of up to half of the property fund due to one event. Sources of such contributions and other financial contributions will also be provided through the council. The National Fund will be owned by the Icelandic State and will be taken as such in the financial balance of the state's funds, and it will, in fact, be an arrangement for controlling and producing on a limited part of the money fund. As is expected to result from the deduction of the debt of the state by the law of public finances, so the formation is equivalent to paying off the State debt. The bill expects special control of the fund that will take control of the management board, the management board being responsible for business management, a procedure, and a proposal for investment policy approved by the Minister on the basis of core criteria in the bill. In a sense, the arrangement under which this arrangement is being made for a certain amount of equivalents to those in a foreign land. However, it must be considered somewhat unique in view of the fact that the role of the fund will be very limited in recent traumas and that its arrangements will be made in a very clear way in relation to the Council's financial authority. In many lands, the operaters of so - called mountain - red treasures, which have the English language known as the Lobster Wealth Funds. estament funds are money funds, which are owned by the state and run for a purpose. Basically, there are two types of funds, savings, and stable funds. The former ones are often associated with savings to deal with the aging of nations and, hence, the predictable increase in public expenses, both pensions and health expenses. The purpose of the latter, stability fund, is usually to match the fluctuations of the export revenues to a shorter or longer length of time, even between generations. Such funds are especially available in the raw export countries, which depend on one raw product, perhaps even a limited resource, e.g. oil, copper, diamonds. These two things can happen together, as we have an example in Norway's oil reserve. This has been pointed out in a public discussion on this matter, as before the council here, that Iceland is in considerable different positions than the nations that have established savings or stability reserves, some kind of national resources. It is true that Iceland is in part a different position than the countries that have founded such a treasure, since this bill is built up in other ways. If it's legal, we'll have a different type of money than men have seen as role models. Thus it can be said that we are in a different position because we cannot see that there is a strong reason for the country's role in saving up savings to balance the welfare of a generation in which the budget is intended to be financed by renewable resources, in contrast with the making of limited resources such as oil, as Norway again. It is true that there is no compelling basis for setting up such funds, and secondly, it is about a savings fund that, unlike what happens in many other lands, there is a powerful system of pensions. This means that national preparation is far better prepared than most other countries to support the aging of the nation and the rising cost of pension. In fact, our pension system has had some accumulated problems because of the financial debt of public employees. This problem was permanently addressed in terms of A-RELR by agreement between state and rural society with the relevant trade union and subsequent legalization in 2017. In 1997, with regard to the LSR department which was closed, the state's budget has again lifted its prenuptials against the department's Penitentiary of 7 billion dollars. Each year, these contributions have been made into five - year financial programmes. According to the fund - spill calculations made for the long future department, if these subsidies remain unchanged for the next 30 years, they will not fail. Then you can look to foreign models of stability or fluctuation reserves. Although Iceland is traditionally dependent on the export of raw products, both marine products and industrial products, conditions are somewhat different from those of raw exports. The Icelandic fishing industry is very diverse, based on its many species of fish, fishing, processing, and markets, as well as an efficient fishing system, which means that water exports are not subject to fluctuations of the same nature as monotonous raw products. Aluminium production has not been a major force in Icelandic economy, nor is it a dominant exporter. Tourism has increased, and the contribution of the so - called global sector to its valuables has increased dramatically in recent years. In this regard, there is reason to note that for further explanation, the government is setting up a crisis kit called the CDsster Relief Funds. I think we can say that it's quite described by calling it a crisis-creature fund. Such funds have been primarily designed to meet natural disasters and have not been placed in general with national resources. For example, there is National Emergency Fund in Costa Rica and Natural Dissier, New Zealand. I have used both the word national resources and the treasure of the nations, and that depends only on the nature of the matter. Here we have an example in Costa Rica and New Zealand that people see why they have to go to a fund to face the events that can make a big difference in their country, rarely they happen. As I have summed up the conclusion that in preparation for this bill it was not the same as in some other countries for a fund that would play an issue with the use of nonrenewable resources or of an unsaid pension system. For one thing, the bill includes that the role of the National Fund must be further resisted by external catastrophes as an economic system, and small society is more sensitive to than that of going and taking place among larger nations. In other words, although the bill gave some consideration to the so - called global Redempture Fund and the International Bank on Orders for such funds, it does not mean that national funds fit directly into that category but, in some respects, are more compatible with crisis funds. A respectable president. I want this to be explained by some of the viewpoints that have been presented on this subject in the discussions and coverages of recent events. These include the introduction of the view that national funds are not needed where other guarantees are present. It is true that considerable equipment for natural disasters has already been built in the country, both in the form of a responseer and insurance. Iceland's natural disaster insurance, domestic property, a lot of cash, as well as a major host system, dock construction, and some other infrastructures. Out of these insurance companies, however, a major means of transportation, such as the main part of the road system, fall. Then there may be significant damage to the effects of other disasters that Iceland's natural disaster insurance doesn't improve, as well as to the government's wanting to resort to assistance that would be otherwise but may fall under such presupervisability. Then all of us should realize that a special financial means to cope with major traumas other than natural disasters, e.g. A dramatic environmental accident on fishing grounds or in epidemics is not available on a significant scale in this country. I could also mention here that there have been a view that new incomes should be further spent by energy to cover debt or defend such revenues in order to cover state pension bonds. In terms of the direct debt of the state's funds, it is nearly as if it were already under the terms of the law on public finances and plans for the continuation of their financial declines. The state's debt status is considered to be moderate in international comparison. It would be wise to go along with the arrangement of continuing to strengthen the financial situation by forming some accumulated funds while continuing to pay off debt. In this regard, it is equally advisable not to reduce the financial stock market's contribution so much that it would further inhibit the activities of a domestic financial market, as is a law on public finances, to look to the net, to a gross debt of deputizing funds and in the backwaters. In terms of the retirement debt of the state's funds, I considered their situation earlier in my speech. Briefly stated: The measures currently available are the prospects for Iceland to become one of the few countries in the world where there is a reliable plan for the almost complete amount of money and a coordinated pension system for the entire population, including government employees. Thus, this matter has been discussed at an early stage in this discussion that the income of this article should be staked out to expand investments, promote public service, or reduce taxes. These are all valid and understandable views, but here we have reason to point out that they are, including, relevant. In a newly developed financial program, the fact that while this new budget will be provided in a precautionary fund, it is publicized for a very handsome increase in investments, which include a number of investments. is a major initiative in the construction of transport and construction into a new national hospital. I also remind you that according to the bill, several parts of your income will be devoted to investments in nurses and innovations during the first five years. There have been ideas of putting this money ahead of all other price - paying activities, ranging from climate surgery to better health care. There is not much to say that the cost of sacrifice comes with all the funds in the sense that they will not be involved in other projects, such as building up savings instead of increasing the amount of cohesion. Clearly, an endless list of worthwhile tasks could be put aside rather than set aside some of the funds that will be set before the Congress if the land is hit by an unexpected battle. This bill is simply suggested that the decision be made to postpone the use of our time and resources in return for any benefit to future generations, which would never occur if the government ever set aside such cost of sacrifice. Tax taxes in Iceland are certainly relatively high in international comparison, but there will be room for tax doctors, regardless of the existence of the National Fund, especially if, in both the private and the public sector, they are able to increase production and highlight the better use of public funds. The tax burden, taken in both brains and in individual areas, will be a continuing political issue in this country, such as in other places where funds such as national funds are operating. It has been noted on this subject that there is no need for a care fund in which the land has a very powerful pension system that could be released from or relied on as a shock. As to this, I just wanted to say that national pensions are a little more upset if much of the funds were to be spent to cope with the consequences of economic failure or ecosystems failure. It would, in fact, be a legal ban on property, for the State has no jurisdiction over that property. It has also been noted that the Court's currency supply has become very large and serves the same purpose as the National Fund is intended. It seems to me to be a rather farfetched perspective, and such saving efforts have not prevented the establishment of public savings or precautions in other countries. It can hardly be viewed as a result of an epidemic, an eco-efficiency, or a natural disaster by the bank's administration that can make a decision to protect the environment in order to finance the government's income or to fund money from counterabundances, as intended by the National Fund. The currency reserve turns to the subjects involved in fluctuations in the financial balance and payment of the country's foreign countries as well as the ability of the Federal Bank to support the currency according to the circumstances. Keeping things in place means more than a fund, which has been a very low product, and it actually means spending tens of millions of dollars in a number of years, depending on gang swings, many billions. Further, it seems to be considered to see if the amount of currency has not become superfluous. Then I would like to mention the view that the state's budget is of little debt and that I could go to a financial store after a shock, i.e. that there is no need for treasure, for the treasure of the kingdom is about to come to a great end, that there is nothing wrong with the debt of a state's treasure. In fact, in view of the state's debt and the secondary interest rates, it is still considerable, and there is no assurance that it will become very moderate in a distant future when a major crash strikes. In any case, it would always be worse to increase it in difficult circumstances. In addition to a large bond version of an emergency situation, it may be possible to raise a higher yield to international financial markets or in particular to the election of Iceland. There is reason to remember that prior to the collapse of the banking system in the fall of 2008, it was borrowed from nearly 4% of the GDP and that the financial resources of theTO bank contained about 10% of GDP. Nevertheless, the payment of the state's funds and population was in danger after the shock. This was prevented by emergency arrangements and partnerships that succeeded in the International Cash Fund. The loan aid that neighboring nations gave Iceland in the wake of the bank collapse was quite expensive. V.E.G. President. It is reasonable to ask, What is the appropriate size of this treasure? The goal must be that the fund will be large enough to prevent the immediate use of all of it. Because of good insurance on natural disasters and other existing products, it is reasonable to consider that the fund's future size will be close to 2,250,300 billion or nearly ten percent of land production. It's a treasure that builds up over years. There is reason to stress that national funds are not available in a single expression but are slow and biting. It may be estimated that it would take some 15 constitute 20 years to build such a fund, considering that the income of the GDP could grow for a long time and also that there would be no need to improve economic losses during that period. I point out that this is giving all the reasons not to come up. This bill, therefore, is not aimed at creating a huge fund that attracts large financial resources over a few years. Rather, it is a gradual development of a small part of the nation's economic savings, and it will require considerable political patience. These proportions are completely different and less than that. refers to the pension system within the country or to the oil fund in Norway, which includes collections that are well over 150% of domestic product. Finally, I'd like to mention that there have been changes in the bill that corresponded to the changes made to the majority of the economic and business committees in the treatment of the case at the last council, as they were a single concern between the Commission and the Ministry. In accordance with UNECE guidelines, I present the independence of risk management as well as the sharpening of wording in connection with risk management and management. Other than that, I refer to these changes in the members of the greater part of the threshing floor. 1576 to 149th Council. Then special reference and discussion have been added to the bill's report on green bonds in explanations of investment policy regulations. The terms of the bill do not accurately predict the content of the fund's investments, except that they are not to conflict with good morals, but they are to be set up in investment policies in ways that should contribute to the appropriate goals, such as protection from human rights or battles against climate change. Thus it is assumed that we will have to take into account the commitments and objectives of Iceland in climate change, e.g. with so - called green stocks being given special significance in the archives. A respectable president. It has been observed in international institutions and credit ratings and in foreign media that the plans for the establishment of the National Fund are both a reasonable and clear sign of the strong and rapid restoration of public funds after one of the biggest economic conflicts the Iceland has had to deal with. The foundation of the fund reflects discipline in the management of government funds and is a sign of changing and better times. The sustainableness of public finance is strengthened, which is designed to increase confidence in Icelandic economy and national development, to promote Iceland's credit interest rates, and thus to promote a more favorable loan. All these factors are for the long - term benefit of all of us, for the future generations and well - being of the nation, in wide context. A respectable president. Other than that, I refer to the National Fund budget and suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u53	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill for the National Fund. It's just the best thing to come up with a national fund. But I'm wondering: Just as we're talking about setting up a national fund, we're building a hospital, a high-tech hospital, for tens of billions of people, and we're running at the same time a system that we can't handle. We have a medical emergency in which people are in danger of death, not whether or not, but when, when, when, when, we live, something happens. When is it enough? Is this when one human life or a number of lives are threatened? Is that the standard? Is it not our duty to ensure that the system works and that hospitals and emergency departments are in order before we start collecting funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u54	A respectable president. Here is a very understandable question about whether we are going to a collection of funds, but we are reducing our ability to share in the ministry in another way. I have learned that the context of this matter with public finances is not completely clear to everyone, but I would like to let the income that came from the businesses of energy move toward government accounts, while the contribution of the state into the fund is not shifting as a fee, but as property. Thus, the existence of the National Fund has nothing to do with the overall survival of the funds every year, thus reducing the scope of the State Fund to care for our joint projects, as we can finance them. So, as I've been ousting, we have a very favorable debt. We have reached our financial goals and standards. [[The president calls.]] We should be able to care for such projects regardless of whether a national fund will be set up or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, although I do not agree with it. But another is that there are five people in charge of this fund. Since we have at a third of our pensions, we know of the experience the cost of firing them, and he is astrogenic. It seems to have the highest paid men in society. How does a minister support the cost of this? What's the cost? Yes, he is to come out of this national treasure, but who is he? Who is expected to be the total success cost, including investments, e.g. Foreigners, and the cost of investment abroad? Have you realized how much this cost will be and how it will be divided?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u56	A respectable president. It is very important that we get a good discussion about the government arrangement, and I agree with it. A senator when he says that we need to look after the cost. It is assumed that there is a government that naturally guarantees the coming of the council to handle the fund. I don't think that's unusual. Similarly, it is assumed that the fund's projects can be cleared out to minimize the cost and structure. I can imagine during the first few years that it would not be wise to develop a complex business arrangement around a small fund so that it will be among the government's roles to suggest how best to make sure that the funds are harvested in a practical way. It is then the other end of this discussion how much risk can be taken with such a fund to get the maximum crop production from the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u57	Mr. President. When I'm at the highest. Less than a year ago, the minister of finance spoke up about this idea, with the permission of a president: ▪... that I do not get tired of saying that if it is really based on solidarity in the council and on the long future, it is unlikely that the reconciliation or the majority will continue for a long time. It means a lot to me. Then comes the highest. Ministers now, in almost the same case, take a little consideration of the majority of opinions, but when the case was resolved by the Economic and Business Committee this spring, it was done by four committees. It's totally clear that there's no such thing as that. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have changed his view that it is important to have a parapolitic agreement about this treasure collection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u58	A respectable president. No, I think it applies to a fund like this, in a similar way to the other precautions I've been tracking here today, that the best thing I can do in the council is that I've been tracking it down here before it can come to the end of the maximum collection of funds that will be at even 15 to 20 years. This makes sense, then, that we are not looking at something that is supposed to happen in a single moment but over many terms. For this reason it is obvious that it is important to make the best of peace. However, there may be some who want to compromise, and I feel that many of the things mentioned to contradict these ideas are simply based on misunderstandings. I was just a few minutes ago answering the question. A senator who thought that this would reduce our ability to handle, for example. Emergency. Hospital emergency. It's just not right. Then we must get through such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u59	Mr. President. I don't think I've misunderstood anything about this fund or language at the highest. Minister. I didn't hear any better than that. In his talk earlier, a minister spoke of international institutions talking about what a good idea it was to set up such a national fund. But is it not so that in a recent OECD report, this treasure collection is precisely critical? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he responds to the criticism of OECD published in a recent report that I have no doubt about. Minister has read.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u60	A respectable president. Last time I was at the Washington International Cash Fund meeting, there was a significant question on the outworking of this case. Clearly, the fund experts are eager to get us to legalize the existence of a national treasure and would count it as a great advantage. It has also been suggested in conversation with a food company that is interested in the case, and it suggests that such funds may be designed to improve or strengthen the quality of credit ratings in Iceland. For indications from OECD, the main indication is that the government needs to invest more and I can agree with that, as we are adding to the public investment. It points out that one way to increase your investment is to make money that would get rid of money from energy companies, but we also have many other means. We could, for example. A new advantage of bank sales, but we have now carefully tied over the amount of money that is being discussed in this context in two financial companies. [[The president calls.]] By releasing only one of them, however, we would release enormous sums of money so that we could make an investment, as OECD shows that it is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u61	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the economy. The government covenant states: ▪ A project is faced in the national infrastructure. These include transport, communication, host systems, and other activities. Transports are called first. They're about to get a lot of work done. That is what a government contract says, with the permission of a president: In the years that follow, there is room for government property to be used on such projects, thus ensuring the solid infrastructure that is the key to a wide range of intensive and productive activities across the country. It turns out that one of the reasons is a safety reason. Now we know that for the projects to go to the southwest corner to secure safety, millions of people need to run away. If I understand a word of the highest degree. A minister of the past may take perhaps 101⁄215 billion a year if it is to be met by filling up the fund to about $2,250,300 billion in about 15 years. Knows Ministers about How much is that worth, according to his own word? [[The president calls.]] Can he relate this to the entire estate of the State? So, then, how much of this estate of the State is being placed, not in transportation and other infrastructure projects, but in a national fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u62	A respectable president. I'm not quite prepared to put this into context with the entire state's property income because they've been quite swinging, to form for financial purposes. In recent years, trades have been highly swinging, drawing together now. But this, of course, is a substantial sum. It's just that way. And if there's anything, we expect the entire budget from energy companies to be moderately measured in the bill, I'd say. We're here to talk in return, both last year and now I'm here and there. Senator, about a lot of basics. That's the connection with the state's budget and whether we're going to be pressing on our ability to carry out certain other projects, e.g. Transportation projects. I'm trying to get into the last interest of the money money getting on the other side. Refining from the fund is not going to go on the other side. Thus, the financial climate of each year's financial budget is not affected, since we are always looking to the goals we have set for survival. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u63	President. The government covenant cannot be understood otherwise. He was approved by - what should we say? -...the top expansives within the Independence Party. I can't remember if there are 80 or 200, there are 200 in the Independence Party, which is needed to accept a government contract. It says that over the next few years, there will be room for government property to be used on such projects, thus ensuring that, etc. So they're talking about using space for property funds. Of course, if there is a new or partial donation to national funds, what you can do about other projects, including the same. Transportation. So this is important, especially in view of the fact that the government is now being looked into. Transport and rural government minister, to provide a price for those who use the resources needed in the southwest corner to build safe transport. This must therefore be taken into context. If something is to be placed in the national fund of property, it is being said in the government covenant to be a means of transportation. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u64	A respectable president. What I can say to this is that in the same government contract, talking about the use of property money to build up transportation is also spoken of national funds. The idea of a national fund is, in effect, better equipped than the former, to use property revenues to support transport construction. But now, of course, I shared in forming this government covenant with the leaders of the other classes and the rest of the accounts, especially with financial interests. I've been speaking of the release of the government's ownership of financial assets, including... to enter the infrastructure. I believe that there is a good agreement for that at the council, even though we need to make sure that we have a good plan for the material in which we call for an external situation that needs to be good so that we can carry out that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u65	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much. The secretary of finance for his review of the National Fund bill that I feel has developed since its first appointment and recommended in December 2018. I welcome more emphasis that can be found in this bill now on the green bonds and green investment funds. I'm celebrating her very much. But I would like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance on the management and management requirements because the bill has a fairly detailed and sound demand for executives, but my knowledge is not as detailed as necessary to the operators. The highest. The secretary of finance explained this to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u66	A respectable president. First, only the green accents that appear on the bill. I think they're a good addition, and I'll even come. to discuss the matter here at the council. It is true that I have never found as much emphasis on the green investments as I now meant at a meeting of the World Bank Fund, where more than 50 financial ministers met and found out about the climate. This was where all the directors of the world's major OECD institutions, the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Cash Fund, the U.S. bank manager. It was one on the other side, if you can use that word. Regarding requirements for those who would accept projects for the fund and negotiations with the government or the fund itself, those who are being looked to by specialists are actually being looked up for more specialized funds in property management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u67	Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. Then I wanted to come to something else in a later answer. That's two things: the harmony with another disaster fund. December 2018, the highest. The minister gave the bill first in my speech that I thought the bill of the National Fund and the role of the National Fund, as it was presented then, might be too dramatic and destructive, and perhaps only had wandered away from the original concept of the treasure that was more about innovation. I just wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the harmony with other funds. However, it involves the income part into the fund, but as shown in Article 5. are improved by contributions to the fund cast at the General Assembly, that some contributions can be determined by the Council or that they have money other than those mentioned in the bill. [[The president calls.]] The highest. Ministers only explained this law further? What thoughts does he envision in these respects?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u68	A respectable president. As I traced to my advance discussion, we realize that there is a part of a project facing a cash control. This situation may arise in the state's financial affairs, resulting in a financial drop, e.g. for selling property. If so, it is not unwise that resources are open to the national funds that certain amounts are taken directly into the fund. This could happen because of property sales, it could happen e.g. Because of the currency supply, they say: We believe the money we have here and we are well spent in this particular fund. Even if there were very harsh conditions to resolve this money again, this was thought primarily as a general authority, if the circumstances might create a government's view of benefits rather than paying off debts or making other arrangements for financial resources, to spend money in the fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u69	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the National Fund. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has submitted. This raises questions because at the same time, we have never gained more money in a government fund. If I just heard today, it's 120 billion that's supposed to come over a few years, an increase. There seems to be no matter how much increase there will be in the income of a government fund, somehow the exchange is always wrong. It is always the same problem with the health system, and it does not seem that even the correct amount of pay can be added to the health system but it seems that the hospital will have to cut down, not even for pay expenses, but 70% of the donations paid to the hospital will be at that cost. It's strange that we should always be expanding the system out, and it calls no alarm bells. At the same time, we're talking about a national treasure. If you look back at the collapse, we can not only look at what happened through the Seal Bank, the money that disappeared from it, but we can also look at the pension fund. We can look at all that was lost, both taxes lost and property in the pension fund. This is to be a warning to us that if we are about to start a fund, we need to work really hard. Somehow, I have a feeling that we haven't done it and that we're not in that place that we're going to be a problem in this context. On the other hand, if we just look at the entire pension system, it is more than 5,000 billion, which is, of course, awesome. In fact, it was in this country that the pensions were just buying themselves and selling property to one another. In this system, we now have some 2,000 billion tax revenues if we start calculating. It's a bat on the market. We have no idea if this will ever return completely. It seems to be the Law to collapse again, and we also heard how costly the cost is in the business of these funds. We have over a third of our pensions and spend around 20 billion on operating expenses that show that we are always doing something wrong in this context. They say we should use these funds for major traumas. What's the big shock? I think it's a big shock when people don't have food. I think there's a lot of trauma when there's a risk that because of financial shortage there could be deaths in the hospitals. Today we have a system that moves, and we seem to be ready to discuss anything other than how we're going to get this system covered. Yeah, make a national fund. We must also remember that we are talking about, as it turned out. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, on expenses, should be paid. We're putting billions on roads, and we're even going to double or triple car owners, and at the same time we're talking about national funds. I say for my part that while the system is like it, we're not supposed to be collecting money. We're supposed to use the money, if we have it, preferably in the medical system, start with it, and then improve the ideals of disability and older citizens. For some reason, I'm sure we believe they're still alive at 70,000,800,000 bucks. less than the minimum wage in the country. Somehow, government by government has calculated it to be just the natural thing. But no one is trying to figure out how to make sure that this is not the case. We know that if we have a minimum wage in the country, no one should live under that number. Somehow, though, we can look beyond it and focus on a national treasure. For my part, I say that such a fund should not be on the schedule until the government is under control. It tells itself that the system is expanding, and tens of billions are going to surveillance institutions. Within a short period of time, the surveillance system has doubled, leaving 200 to 600,700 in ten years. The system is expanding. There's no life underneath, but there seems to be plenty of money. I have previously pointed to this dramatic media committee, how it can go from 58 million to 500 million in two years. It shows every track of this system that's going on with us. As long as the government is downhill, I'm afraid to say, in this context we shouldn't be looking at national funds. It is money to be used, and it is necessary to make good use of it now. It's amazing to think that out there there are people, who, because of the strange rules of housing, may be living at 70,000,800,000 bucks. and you have to go to the country to reach the toil, but you have to say no because your spouse may be on the minimum, and there is no way to make a living. If a person is involved, he may have something small, but he needs a better way to live. While society is at this stage, we are under obligation to restore such things. Then let's talk about a national treasure. Then it would be great to put the money in a national fund. But first of all, let's let the system work so that it's good to live for everyone and not just some chosen one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u70	A respectable president. I have to make a brief comment to a talk. Senator. It has to do with the fact that the national fund has no effect on our ability to work together because income from land induction or other energy companies will move on the income side, not on the other side. As a result, if we are otherwise meeting financial policies and are within financial goals, e.g. " " " " " " " " " " " For the good of God, " " says the apostle Paul, "it is possible " to pay back what is good for those who do not know what is bad. " A senator here stresses the matter. If we didn't set up a national fund, nothing would happen in the state's survival, nothing. We have exactly the same chance to take action in our accounts, e.g. to better care for health or social matters. Of course, it's somebody's effect, but they just don't show up there. They appear in the funding of projects, so when it comes to creating budgets, whether for investments or for the rest of the system, the government will test whether it needs to be financed. Of course, by adding money to the national funds, the government's funds are reduced, and we need to consider that money is not so handled by the government that we have to borrow large amounts of evil in order to carry out the budgets each time, just because we decided that our funds would be made into a national fund. It is similar with my debt, as it were, to pay off debt as much as I did in my background speech. [[The president calls.]] This is a matter of being clear in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u71	A respectable president. I have to say exactly what it is about answering the highest answer. Secretary of the budget that I can totally agree with him. It's the best thing to have a national fund, and I'm prepared to help build it if we're going to make sure that our government spending doesn't go out forever but if they are protected by the health system and those who need it, those in society's lowest income groups, that pensioners get the pleasure of enjoying their food, medicine, and shelter. If we can make sure that this treasure was the best thing to do. Then I completely agree to have a national fund. We must be talking about money that is in a national fund, and it must be in the power of the State and the government at any given time how they are protected. That's what it says. But while we have a system that has the perforation at present, and we have to admit that the health system is not working perfectly, while there are certain systems in us that do not work perfectly, we have an obligation to do everything that can be done to restore them. When the rest is over, we should lay down. We also know, for example. that the state has a huge commitment to the pension fund. We often compare our homes. It is better to pay off debt if you have money for it than to add it to a profit because it usually pays more of the interest requirement of debt than you earn it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u72	A respectable president. I think we're what, really. A senator would agree on much but not on the effect of this bill on the ability to carry out tasks. But I would like to state it, just so that there is no misunderstanding, that it is the sacrifice of forming a national fund. So there are other things that cannot be done for the same coin. But the complex interaction between the budget and financial regulations needs to be clear, and it is about whether we are a national fund or not, we have to care for these projects, and there is no need for us to care for them more than will lead to the rest of the budget and the financial policy we follow. The big question is, really, only this, as I look at it: Would money be better spent in debt? I explained in my case that there was no great need for it. Rather, should we use them to make money direct investments? It is true that the national funds, the money that comes as money from energy companies, could be used to finance it. But then I would point out that we have many other ways to finance such projects. After all, you just need to have some opinion about whether it is a good thing for the nation to build up such a crisis fund or not, whether we might look back in the future to the time in which we now live, and ask us: " Wouldn't it have been good to make good use of the budget that was there to start up a collection of funds to cope with the tragedy? They can appear to us in all kinds, as I have traced them. That is the question: Can we agree on its importance to the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for these answers and would like to ask him back. We have a boil and they need to be brought in. We do not know how to do so. Even if we gain far more money from such investments as the pension fund, we may lose money. But we have also seen that all of this can collapse overnight. The greatest profit must be paying off debt. A debtless fund must be much better prepared to cope with tragedy. We should agree on that. I would say that whenever you have the money, it must be better to pay off your debts because the interest will always be higher than the interest in loans, and therefore I would ask: Is a minister not in agreement with me that it would be the best thing to start off with getting rid of the debt of the state and then we could start collecting money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u74	Mr. President. Now that we're back on the 1st. The idea of a national fund may well be to review what the situation was like when the situation was settled. The Economic and Business Committee this spring. The case never came to the fore because the matter was not settled and it would never have been passed on to the end of Congress, since the matter was resolved in a conflict with the committee and with four committees. The one standing here, and the Pirata's representative of the Economic and Business Committee, huh? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, put together the committee's opinion and I want to, now that we're back on this matter, just reviewing what it was we made up in that opinion. That's what she said back there by then. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Beynfjörn's daughter, a left-green senator, felt that the matter had developed a lot since it was submitted less than a year ago, but I can't agree with that. Although green emphasis, which is just fine, and to some extent taking into account comments from the SEC, which the majority of the committees suggested changes, are still fundamental issues that conflict with this fund. Scattering at the highest level. The financial and financial secretary of the bill is in our opinion, i.e. Me and a member of the Pirata Committee, a judiciary, such as in the establishment of a national fund to privateize funds in a financial market, a concept of use, a set of values, the funding of the fund only through the profit of government funds and the establishment of the fund at a time when state funds struggle with unfundred commitments. We were surprised to learn that only income from the energy resource should run into the fund but not profit from all resources, such as fishing costs from the crops of the sea. Fishing costs are pure resource revenues, so it is logical that they are funded rather than profited by the government's energy capital. As a general rule, it seems that other government funds are based on resources, so the question is, Why are marine crops excluded in this first step? The same is true of the income of foreign tourists. Thus, the fund could become a balance fund and income linked to export branches. When good years are to be gathered into the fund, but it is possible to remove it in case of failure. The most intimate explanation that this fund is not defined as a resource fund is that the government groups do not feel that within them there is no place to describe the crops of the sea as national property and to sludge them into a national fund. This explanation receives under both wings in the Committee's list more part of the economic and business committee in spring where it says that a greater proportion of them are considered necessary to complete an addition of resource resources in a constitution before making a decision to exploit or earn from other common resources than the energy resource. Taking this step without the use of marine resources is separating the resources of a lasting national property, i.e. the use of marine institutions and energy resources, however, belong to government sources. It would be more natural to make money from limited resources into a national fund rather than from renewable resources, as is the Norwegian oil fund. The budget still has high interest costs, and it is difficult to argue that a fund supply is not to be financed while it lasts, as the bill says, is a provision for temporary delinquency or, as it says in the report on the provisional principle: In accordance with the government's administration contract, it is also stated in the provisional principle in the bill that the annual donations in the national funds will be temporarily lower than the revenues, where part of which will be spent in the effort to build nurses and, on the other hand, for the advancement of the innovations of the industry. Since there will be a new feature of the new income for these time - making special projects, that provision will have no effect on the survival of the State Fund. This, in turn, makes the fund a treasure or, rather, a accounting key to the State's financial system for the next three years. This alone is an excellent subject, not a basis for much expansive or approved bill. The proposals set out in a report of the resource conference to the General Assembly in September 2012 suggested that the resource bills be set up to collect the entire nation's income from its resources. The report says, with the permission of the president: Therefore, the Commission suggests that, in cases where resources are derived from the use of renewable resources, there will be no more than a fund collection; rather, it will be arranged in a visible way in a project and a case of the capital. In order to achieve the requested demonstration, a resource policy committee will suggest that a special resource account be installed. There they will produce the nation's income of their resources, i.e. the resource or the part of the resource that exists as a result of the use of resources owned or in charge of the State, which is a claim for the nation. Resource accounts are expected to be part of a balance sheet, as well as to be published specifically by means of a financial bill along with a report. The demonstrations of the resource resources are the result of a special analysis of revenues in resource accounts and their provision for projects and lawsuits as part of the budget. A report by the Resource Policy Committee also suggests that the establishment of the Resource Fund, which grew the share of the resource resources due to the utilisation of nonrenewable resources, should be based on the objectives of developing the Norwegian Pension Fund. As a result, in line with the proposals of a resource policy committee, the EIC, the one listed here, took steps to set an resource account into the bill to legalize public finances and is now in the 56th paragraph. track No. 123/2015, the headliner for making a government account. Two. This article will include the following: to the first part of the government bill, which covers the total budget of the A-part State Fund, should include a summary showing the trust of state funds from the use of resources in the state market and due to the limited rights given by the government. The regulations of the 56th grade still remain. Not all of them are being made, but a smaller portion believes that the legislation on a national fund should at least wait until the 7th count of 2 mg. 56. g. the law on government finance has been fulfilled. It is also important to provide advice for problems of work and to place resources on all the electricity companies in the country. The bill suggests that private people in the financial market will take care of the wealth and increase it, and we will warn against such ideas. If the bill is approved, it is very important that his management be in Iceland's Secret Bank. The bill refers to the Norwegian oil reserve and makes it known that the model of the export is applied to it. That, however, is from time to time. You can, for example. Pointing to the last fall, it was decided to continue the Norwegian fund's ownership regime within its independent units in the Norwegian Bank. Also, it's a very bad idea to take out both business and business venture control of the fund in a government store for privates. In the predictable danger it can create, it is a temptation. There are all kinds of reasons and reasons not to do so. The F.O. made comments, and I understand that in the bill some of the criticism is taken into consideration. But it's our opinion, the Pirata's representative and the one we read here that Iceland's Navy is suitable for hosting a national fund and is fully capable of all management and operations. It is important to distinguish between resource resources and resource resources. The above are based on the investments that have been made, such as water supply activation or fishing vessels, which are developed because of the resources used by that resource and lead to more profitonability than other articles with comparable concerns. In the bill, a song text as well as a paper project, these two seem to be mixed together. The pay from the energy companies is a mixture of capital income and resource income. It is not wise for the government to make money from this investment rather than from any other estate. It would be very normal for the government to place a resource tax on an energy company and to make money from it into such a fund. A model of such taxation is in Norwegian legislation. The taxation could also go to private companies and give them more of it, and it certainly brings attention to the fact that the bill contains private companies that use energy resources, it is not expected to produce money from them or resources from this fund. President. I have considered our main criticism since spring, mine, and the members of Pirata's Committee, and in no way was taken into account that criticism, despite the highest level. In the beginning, a minister of finance talked about peace, which gave me the hope that something would change us and that we would make a talk about the funds and the work that had gone into action. A financial and business committee would have returned to change the bill first. Minister wanted to stick to this idea. To be honest, it was a lot of disappointment that nothing was based on all talk about parapolitic reconciliation, it was all fake, it was just a beautiful word at the beginning of the work that was ignored. I hope, though, now that the committee will resume the work, that we will get a deeper discussion, and I can review how this situation can be changed so that it can be more settled than it was in spring. Sadly, the small changes that have been made in the case do not give reason to conclude that it will be more settled in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u75	A respectable president. Even if it was previously mentioned from the reason why. I have to say, a senator on account of this matter is a little surprised to know how the Conspiracy approaches this matter, especially in the light of a very positive response. paritaprevir For the first time in praise of the case, the Guðjón of Brjánsson was glad that this was the time for a collection of funds. Now, I'm not going to belittle the fact that over the years, there have been some ideas about funds and that other income, other resources, even as well. A senator came in. Similarly, it is normal for humans to have differing opinions about how to smooth out the regime and how to build investment policies, where to save the funds, and so forth. Of course, since the Scroll Bank is called, it is common for bank banks to cooperate with private people who are specialized in promoting a share of the funds that the bank operates on. In itself, it is only assumed that the council and economic and economic secretary and prime minister will establish a government that will suggest an investment policy that then needs approval. For all of this, the matter must then be answered here at the council, so it is impossible to understand why people put so much emphasis on the fact that it must only be in the Secret Bank, as if he were alone in it. It's as if they would hide the Secret Bank from taking all the country's pensions as well because they're the only ones to be trusted. Of course it's not like that. The government and its council must be able to put together a government that can provide practical suggestions based on law and order, on how to increase the property of the fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u76	Mr. President. I don't think it's fair to the highest. Minister expects me to rule every senator in the United States on every subject. We in the United States have not thought it a bad idea to set up a national fund to deal with major traumas in the community. However, that is the output shown in the bill at the highest level. Ministers of finance that we criticize and that we look at only money from energy resources owned by the countries that are renewable. It is much closer, Mr. President, to set up a fund around nonrenewable resources, which are mines, such as the Norwegian oil fund, or around our fishing resource. It is much closer to putting such things away for the benefit of future generations so that we are not using it, just the generation that lives here. Of renewable energy resources, there are only other laws, as I did well in my speech. But we don't agree on this, me and the highest. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I allow me to doubt that other members of the United States don't think it's a good idea to start a resource fund where the nation's resources run into a fund that can function as a fluctuation, because that's a good idea. But it's just not about what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u77	A respectable president. I wasn't asking for it at all. A senator would make all members of the United States Parliament. I was just referring to one specific speech that I remembered. I said it would surprise me to hear such conflicting views from within the same category. It was a detailed part of my speech to distinguish between savings on the one hand and after the events of swinging funds and then such shocks as we're talking about here, a national treasure in the form that is being referred to here. Actually, I don't see the complete difference between building income on the use of sustainable resources in the country as we are doing with our fish resources and building up our income on the basis of sustainable consumption of energy resources. In both of these cases, we're talking about sustainable resources. I can't quite figure out what's going to happen. A senator makes a difference between the two factors. The point is, here we are not talking about the need to set aside because of the resources we're walking on. We're not talking about it, so it's not said in this case. However, it is claimed in this case that the long - term building of shock - repair equipment, the possession of defenses, is a good provision for the nation, not to have to take on giant blows because of the shocks that may come upon us. It also points out that other options - all of this is cost of sacrifice. Everything you do is the cost of sacrifice in the sense that you cannot make the same coin twice. It is claimed here that this is a better provision than a debt payment. It is pointed out that the fund will most likely improve our credit ratings and will strengthen the state's financial status in terms of debt under the civil law. The underlying question here is, Do we agree that it is a good provision for long - term building such a traumatic equipment fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u78	Mr. President. As I think I've come to see it before, I don't think building a fund is a bad idea. But I think that's an eviction rate. A minister offers us a bad idea and does not agree with it. I'm sure there are others who agree with me that it makes more sense under the circumstances we're willing to pay off debt and not set up a fund next to a debt of state. It is an example that can hardly work out. If we reduce our debt, we will also improve the credit rating. We do not have to store up money to show that we have some money and then pay high interest on the other side. Since then, we haven't paid the deposit we're standing in front of after a crash. The government has assumed that the fund will not be collected as long as it sits at the government table. Rather, the treasure collection will start at a later date, some other government to address it. I think it's quite clear that in the way that the collection is done, what income goes into the fund, and when, there's a difference between me and the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u79	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the history of the case. Like a minister and a lot of bad guys. The members of the council have entered the matter for the second time. Hv. A financial and business committee discussed the matter, as has been observed so far. winter, but the case didn't end this spring. Since I am a person for recycling, much of my speech is based on my speech since December. When we discussed this matter and came into the show I put on them. First, there are aspects of the provisional principle II. That's a slight change. It is now not expected that nursing resources would flow to them between 2020 and 2020,220,224. It's only distributed out of the budget. In fact, I think that in many respects it may be wise. However, I wondered, " Is it possible to expand the provisional standard II, especially that of nurses and daykeepers? ' Hv. Councilmen are no doubt known, for there has been a considerable discussion of the change in service models, including increases in home service, improved equipment to enable people to enjoy such services, etc. I wondered, then, if the provisional principle II could be a little more extensive or if the 10 billion - to - creation regulations apply to this innovation in aging service. But I think it might be a little far more en route, so I wondered if it would be allowed to expand the arrangements specifically in the nursing room. During the past year, I talked a little bit about whether it was flat in the process of expanding 5. ..... taking into account the amount of money you might at some time be able to run to the fund. In the bill as it is today, income from energy resources is mainly expected to be on government custody, and I can quite agree that it could be a good start. But at least I'm not done wondering if there could be more resources involved in making money, to form due to the right to fish in certain places and other resources, depending on the events. In itself, it is a resource emergency to be allowed to show the land, let's say, or go to certain places on the land. It may be wondered, then, that there should be some kind of resource charge in the value of what could run into this fund. I also wondered, Mr. President, if it wouldn't be wise to have some kind of a scholarship. All of us may hope that there will rarely be a need to use the funds for disaster or shock mentioned in the bill. I imagine somehow that if we could say that it was a disaster, we could have a trust fund that would be 400,5,500 billion, or even bigger. At that time, we could have a huge fund, and although in ourselves it is not bad to have a good anchor in the financial affairs of the state, I feel at least that I am. that it takes, at least in the discussion following this discussion, to discuss specifically whether at some particular point there would be a possibility to decide that the profits of the fund or some of its particular small portion might arise when it is large enough to allow it to be predictable that it would be sufficient to intervene - I'm not saying any disaster but at least the largest part of it. I think it matters. As part of the Commission, investment policies were discussed a great deal and should be determined more clearly how they should be. While the bill does not have a strong change in what is called the fund's investment policy, the report gives us some indication of what could fall under. I wondered, like other members of Congress, if it should just be part of the fund's rules that he would not be able to form investments in projects or companies that actually violate e.g. The European Union's climate goals, that the fund does not invest in general means that it should be said that this is how we want it. I also wondered, Mr. President, and that is one of the things I would have asked the highest. Minister if I'd made a reply to him I'm afraid I didn't, whether of the 6th Amendment. Substitution, i.e. How we can get to the fund, if it's not there. I understand that it must not be easy to take the funds from the fund, but it also seems to me that the procedure listed here can be possible, at least in a disaster situation, quite time - consuming and if it doesn't take at least being some kind of warrant for intervening. Of course, the Allegorical Parliament and State Fund, the Allegorical Parliament, any financial warrants, or authority, have been used to resort to changes in the law if needed quickly because of some terrible circumstances that might arise, but I wondered if there should be some kind of reference to this in 2 mgr. Section 6. so that you can grab in at a few speeds. I'm not going to trace to the details of the changes in the bill. The most pronounced changes are in Article 3. which I think may be safe to say is very positive. The changes that are usually made on the bill are my witty positive. But I hope in spite of the tone that has been in speeches at least Some members of the council here today we can do what we can do. The Economic and Business Committee reached some solidarity on this matter and extended it this time. I don't think this case needs more than two rounds in order to achieve the law. I think that by creating a fund of national resources by means of the arrangement discussed here, we are, in effect, ensuring a permanent anchor for society for a longer time and once it has reached a reasonable size it will have a very positive effect on the Icelandic state and our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u80	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about national funds, and I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir For his speech and introductory speech, Þór Gunnarsson the Ólafur of Gunnar did not agree. Hv. A senator came into it here, as discussed in the discussion, that we are receiving this case for the second time, and it seems to me that much benefits have been made since it was submitted, and most important because the work being done is taken into account. The Economic and Business Committee, I can agree with that. Before I ask the question, I would like to say that in general, I am quite comfortable with the current issues and the goals set out there, especially about trusting the financial resources of the state. All of us can agree that this is a good goal, and I like the wording as it is. A senator mentioned this as an anchor and spoke of building up the strength to cope with the tragedy. Hv. A senator came in here to the top, if you could easily collect in the fund. In the 5th. magazines are referred to as contributions and contributions from the fund. The senator discussed both at the same time an expansion and a climax. I'm gonna pray. The senator to explain further, he is likely to be talking about how money comes into the fund from elsewhere but only from the use of energy resources. And as for the climax, I'm asking, 14th. Gr., the Regulation's authority can't be used when we're dealing with some kind of maximum trust in the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's question. By dilation to Article 5. I am first and last to wonder if there is a reason, rather than having a legal authority in 14th. Gr., just keeping it in the 5th paragraph. that there may be other types of donations. Like what? A member of the body is well - known, as other members of Parliament have discussed this. Yes, this might happen, since the fund would be sooner hot and earlier, which would increase pressure on whether it should rather have some kind of a peak, it is quite possible. I understand the Regulation authority on the 14th floor. not that, on the basis of it, new foods can be directly determined, not in the large context, but at the highest level. A minister entered his talk earlier, making that at some point there was a sale on the estate or something, and it could be decided to place it in the fund. I understood the best. A minister did not so as to be the supreme minister. A minister may decide by regulations that new general income sources are being provided for the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's comments are clear, and I expect this will be discussed more quickly. Economic and business committees, I think it's kind of obvious. I can say with what. A senator of what he's flagging here. I'd like to come in later, if you don't mind. A senator mentioned, i.e. the process of making use of the fund, the process of working hard, may be complicated. I guess that's what it's like. A senator to refer to the procedure that the Minister brings up a Synod proposal for approval, as stated in Article 6. the arrangement. I guess in this article there is a reference to other such funds. I can't see that the work song could be different from that of the Generals, as expected here. I'm asking why. A senator on the subject of how we could possibly speed up that process. As shown on page 19. 18 In this report, it is the consultation of the General Assembly, when the bill was submitted here at the last legislation, for improvement in investment policy, and this is to consider government policy on climate issues and the Santiago guidelines laid down on the basis of an O.C. It is a good work that is behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I was not suggesting that Generalis's decision should not come about when it was due. I think it's very important. I can see, however, that the procedure, that is the eulogy proposal, is a six - week debate on the Committee to Evaluate, mentioned in Article 7. I can see that it could take a few months or at least weeks to get through deciding how to clean up the fund. I simply wondered if some kind of equipment would have to be about it in verses 6 or 7. In what ways might the State respond more rapidly when needed? I mentioned in my speech that, of course, the General Assembly, as a number of times have happened, can make decisions on very short notice and resolve matters fairly quickly. When we are relatively small, we may have a very large fund, and especially on top of it, it can be very important how we work on it. I'm just wondering if there's any way we can find that out about the bill and the discussion on the Committee to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u84	Mr. President. I am a firm supporters of increased responsibilities and council in the business of state funds. In fact, during this terms, I have been somewhat critical of the government for the inexpensive fees it has practiced and is there beating a questionable Iceland record in the expansion of the state budget for no longer than this. That is why this case may be a cause for joy, for there was at last the government to set aside some money that she could not spend so hard, but it is no question to me. For one thing, technical issues may be considered. In the context of this government's spending policy, a nail is to be cut in contribution to the fund for the first few years so that the government can spend a little more of the capital involved. Basically, though, I wondered whether there is a basis for such a national treasure, when we look at other such ones, and whether it is timely at least even if there is a basis for it. I'd like to mention three. When we look at our neighboring countries that have taken up these measures, which can be very sensible in many cases, we have seen that the national funds tend to provide assurances of unfunded pension commitments, where there is a flow system instead of a collection system, or where there is funding in the currency of the state's currency, and then there may be a collection of funds due to the use of unsuspectable resources, e.g. The Norwegian oil reserve. These appear to be three basic features of the national treasure. Then it is interesting to remember that we have, first of all, a financial system that finances most of the material building blocks, not a transboundary system on the part of the State. Second, we have our income of resource use primarily based on sustainable, renewable resources; hence, there is no evidence that income is the result of their usefulness in the coming years or decades. Third, we have a very large, even too large, currency supply that has been able to raise in recent years. At all three standards, our position is very stable. That's why I'm only stopping by these plans because even if there's a lot there to be found on the focus of the fund, investment policy, etc. it's costing an outside fund like it's always something. It can be assumed that his administrative expenses will be quite modest, and some of the financial expenses, government, and so forth, will be financed. It's time to ask, because at the same time as here it's talking about a fund that could be compared to the plan of the bill $2,250,300 billion bill. the size of we have an unfunded or negative insurance status on the B-intel of the state's Pentateuch, which is fully responsible for the government, to a value of 700 billion dollars. If we look only to the simple fact that this insurance situation is now respected in the light of 3.5% of the actual growth requirement each year, in effect, it could be said that the state's budget has 61.77% a year's name production by paying them a negative status faster than it is being done today. In view, if I remember them correctly, the current influx, an additional flow to the B sector, it will be 7◯10 billion a year. A double contribution could be made by allowing the funds listed here to flow to the national fund to speed up this commitment to a well - accepted profit for a treasure. It would be a great deal of savings in it for future generations without the State's having any additional cost, for inside the RC, there is all the expertise, all the hierarchical fruitage needed for money. The budget is then only to use the funds that he is already running today, which is called the Pension Fund of the Government, by means of contributions on the one hand into the A Company, such as traditional pension funds are fired, and, on the other, by his direct responsibility for the negative insurance status of the B Company, which would be able to use this contribution to pay a slightly faster than it is currently assumed. In a way, we're dropping these costs, i.e. The lack of funding of the B League, to future generations by not paying faster on that commitment than it really is. Although there is a basis for any assessment of the budget of the B department, it seems to me that this would be one of the best investments of today's state funds, paying the commitment faster down, and therefore absolutely unnecessary, at least at this point, to set up a special trust fund while such opportunities are open to us. In addition to this, it is referred to as some kind of treasure, but at the same time, it is his payment condition that the total loss of income is about 5% of the average income of the last three business years. In a committee party I signed on the subject. I even showed us ours. A picture showing that such events are a major event in Icelandic economic history. Actually, there would be a number of times when a payment could be taken from this fund, which would have brought nothing to do with major losses in the Icelandic economy. Rather, it would only be a typical Icelandic economy. Thus, it is possible to wonder whether the spending permits or conditions are too much for this. My main criticism is, in fact, that the state fund has a significantly better opportunity simply by paying down the negative insurance status of the B Company faster than expected today. It could be said that under the basic ingredient of this criticism, both the trade council and the UN took place and believed that it would be untimely to set up a national fund as such under the present circumstances. I'm not gonna have my case any further. This is, in fact, the same criticism that I have previously proposed to an institution or created such a fund at this point. It seems to me that the matter is relatively little changed in all the basics of the last council, but looking forward to taking it up on a financial and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u85	A respectable president. You're right. According to one U.S. senator, many of the bounteous treasures that operate are elsewhere different from the one under consideration. However, there are some examples that I mentioned in my story about funds that are similar to those we are talking about, which are funded for the relief of countries in the face of bigger traumas. And, of course, that's just the case. A senator's sacrifice is the cost of setting up such a fund, and the choice should be considered. In my advance and in a paper with the bill, that is exactly what the main subject is. In the lead of the bill, work was made to reflect on these options. This suggests that at the same time, we can deal with an unfunded pension commitment to the B-party with the expected continuation of our cities and the establishment of a national fund. But the National Fund is then a sacrifice if you're just looking at these two projects in the sense that it would be possible to pay faster to the B department. It is always a question of what it means for one nation to benefit from such a reserve. Of course, it is an inexhaustible subject and is based on uncertainty about the future, what may arise. Major volcanic eruptions, environmental disasters, and such factors are not ahead of us, but we can be sure that we can agree that it would be good for us to have put aside these events so that we would have a new year and a good position to set aside to deal with them when it arrives. That is really the key to this matter. [[The president calls.]] It is not imitating any other fund, as has sometimes been held in the discussion of this matter, which is thought of for a completely different purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of the opposite, and of course, it is true that if the State's position is heavy in other respects, it might be good to have such a trust. But it may be part of my criticism in this that we have, for example, since the state's funds have landed in the last position in 2009 and 2010, for the benefit of reviews on which credit criteria to be looked, how to ensure that government funds will not return to the situation that he landed in 2009 and 2010, that he will not get in such a difficult position as it proved to be. Of course, many other factors are already faced with such unprecedented economic events that we have been trying to learn from. It is impossible to say what volcanic eruptions of almost some ancient size could mean, but we have not recently experienced any of these events that have so greatly affected our economy. You might ask, though, the highest. To the contrary: If this fund is primarily intended to be available in such a crisis, is not the payment conditions of the fund too bed under the bill as it is available? In fact, it would be possible to take to him in a very typical Icelandic economy for a year or two of every six to seven that we are going through such fluctuations. It would likely be relatively unstable building of the fund, considering that each year it may have been 103/415 billion to penetrate it and its authority, at the present rate, to resort to tens of billions of cities each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u87	A respectable president. Meditating on and discussing the conditions is a natural aspect of this subject. I think they're perfectly defined in your area. and in a report with 6. It is clear that we are referring, not to measures that are usual in any state-of-the-art terms, but to major setbacks and probably as part of the case. But the main point is that we can understand here during the council the question of whether it is a good thing to take advantage of this opportunity. I view it as an opportunity now that we are making a new income to the State, a fairly large one, at the same time we have adjusted our debt rate, paid up a lot of debt, and we have other assets that we should turn into a new investment opportunity. The question is, In the end, do people want to make significant use of energy companies - and, of course, they are especially looking to land activation there - for the future? As you hear in the discussion, there are many other things that can be done, too, with the money as long as the government's budget is in place for the national interest we are working on in terms of spending. It is impossible to wonder what else to do. But the big question is, and I think that this is a special milestone right now, in the long run, that we need to understand the discussion at the council. I'm pretty sure that if you don't get legalized on this case, the council will be getting used to 10 billion shipments from Landing and finding the funds elsewhere. Then there will be an empty matter to talk about making room for later treasure collections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u88	President. I think it's me and the highest. Ministers agree that it is important to make use of the space that is possible to create in the financial affairs. In fact, we have to keep in mind that we have a financial policy that even assumes a balance of state funds over the next two years or so, while going through the adjustment in the economy right now, it is of course urgent that, in the long term, when the income of these resource use companies is increasing, it should be determined in some way. They will not go to any further exasperation of the State than will be used as a department in mind. There I have pointed out primarily, with a very practitional simple comparison, that for the least time, it is much more practical to pay faster off the commitment of the B-inventment with its 66.57% name growth, I'm not talking about in the environment today. It is true to remember that this is 3.5% of the real - life interest cost for a state fund at the same time as the government fund may be financing at 2% or less. This is a substantial financial cost for the government, and hence, it was an opportunity to direct a heavy debt or commitment to the pension commitments rather than to go much further into the debt of the state itself. It is, as it has rightly been pointed out, at least some lower limit that makes sense to apply, not everything, including the state's debt. to maintain an efficient stock market. It's really my core criticism. I simply considered the money to be more efficient in paying off the commitments of the B-party than in starting a new government agency on national funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u89	Mr. President. It's been a very interesting talk today, what I've heard from her. In its core, the matter may be centered on a provision of funds that can be considered a fairly predictable step toward the loss of a trust fund as currency, especially in the case of land activation. The question is, What are the best and most practical ways, and perhaps most profitable, Mr. President? I must admit that I have, despite the detailed and careful history of the highest. Ministers, do not become convinced of the need to set up a national fund, a new government agency designed to run a fund with a fine name next to a treasure. I admit that goals are not fully understood in the way that the sufferers are expected to react are not completely detailed and precisely defined. I also have to admit that I'm not completely aware why Iceland's State Bank is not entrusted with this fund. I remind you that the Navy has long experience with international financial activity because of its work as well as with the growth of the currency. The late bank has a very important relationship in the international financial world, which is well presented, as the state funds are also. Let me say that in that subject, I speak from my own experience in one of my previous lives. Mr. President. In his talk, the minister self traced a number of protective equipment already available in the country to cope with the many tragedies. It is enough to mention the currency reserve, though his role is reserved, as a minister actually traced his speech. Even a minister may agree with him that he may have become one number too large. However, there is another discussion that may be appropriate. There is a reason to mention Iceland's natural disaster insurance, formerly an appendage fund. Here's a working insurance deposit fund for potential depositors. There is another factor to consider. In the European Union the proposed return fund intended to be paid for the treatment of fallen financial companies. It can be expected that such an arrangement will also be adopted here. Mr. President. Our energy resources are defined as renewable, and indeed they are, the rain provides for it, unveiled by oil and gas sources, for example. So we do not have to be fair with future generations to bind money to special funds, there are not just certain generations that will be enjoyed there, these energy resources will be in the country indefinitely. There is reason to mention that here we worked for the years of the ocean's balance fund with the aim of paying for the export product of Iceland's fish products. That fund was laid down at the end of the last century. We now live in a much more complex economy, and more support lies in the development of valuables and revenues than it was, the situation of all the changes to our economy. It's a lot of strength from the national pension system, though it's been reminded of its own violations, but the pension system will in time be paying adequate pensions to the majority of the people of the country. I agree with what a minister said in his background address, that the role of the pensions is tied to the purpose and money will not be drawn to them to face unforeseen events, but of them, as I could, a great financial strength. What we're calling in on speeches is called normal roads, bridges, ports, airports, etc. This has been a blow attack, first of the necessity of the crash, but too long afterwards. I believe all the evidence exists that energy resources are being used to strengthen the infrastructure here in the United States, strengthen the infrastructure of Iceland - and it needs to be done now, but not later. Then I am talking about transportation, clinics, schools, and nursing homes to face the aging of the people who are known and looked for and already in the demographics of the nation. True, the nursing home is listed in this bill, but it does not require any suggestions that follow the establishment of a national fund to carry out such tasks as nursing homes for the elderly. As we have seen, the debt of the state's treasure is moderate. It is better than that it is said at best. It's not much of a debt, is it? But it is true that there are natural unsolved problems due to the R. True, a minister could do some special deposit so that, in addition to all of this, we would remember that some opportunists who could find their way here on a power chair might as well try to protect national funds for popularity rather than do what I would allow myself to stress, i.e. to make wise use of the money, money profited from the energy resources, for basic building of Icelandic society's infrastructure. I'm going to say here that it is not obvious that there are better investments if you think about making money from such projects. This points to the Paris Economic and Development Institute, OECD, on the need for increased public investments. To meet this helpful indication, the use of energy resources is clearly available. The potential value of a bank was mentioned, but it's not in hand, and it's far more vague of the money, as in order to form a date when it would fall, but when it would be expected to be paid by land induction, which, in fact, has been offered by the company itself. Mr. President. Together, I'd like to say that about the subject of business here, i.e. to deal in a reasonable and orderly way about how this predictable profit from the energy resource will be spent, it seems to me that you will not defend it for building wood as I have traced and emphasized. I don't think the institution of a national treasure is the correct answer to the conditions we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u90	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your time. I have repeatedly stated today that the cost of setting up a national fund comes with sacrifice. There are, in particular, factors such as these have been referred to as financing projects. Of course, they need to look at public finances and ask if they are the economic factors that depend on our financial goals to take on such projects. But it is true that if a person chooses to deposit cash into a national fund, he is not using that money elsewhere at the same time. Some say, and it has been noted here in the discussion that men could arrange for this cash to be paid in pensional debt. Others want to use money to finance a government fund because of investments. It's all understandable and important, but I believe they're all in good shape. It is also important to discuss this large picture together, i.e. how to spend more time in Icelandic financial terms on pension commitments, in terms of the need for investments. Also, what would it be wise to do in the government's balance accounts for e.g. sales of property. In this government, we have been proposed to seek ways to reduce the share of the state's property in finance, which includes sums of total higher than those being discussed in this fund, or perhaps it is more accurate to say at least approximately, i.e. Well, that's some kind of money that's about... of the same magnitude as when the funds are fully financed. That is why it is essential that we continue to get involved in the correct arrangements for those assets. To me, it's obvious that we should look for ways to reduce the possession of the state in Iceland Bank. We had a special discussion about it this week. There has been no written proposal to speak with the council. Of course, there are some factors to be considered in this regard. But with such a sale, we could exactly attack many of the action taken in connection with this matter and mention it as important. We could, for example. Paying large amounts of money into pension bonds. We might have enough money to finance an enormous investment in the road system, in ports, elsewhere in the transportation system, in airports. We might also have free funds to continue building in our health - care system, whether it was the Landsaholic or a nursing home. We can also continue a campaign for innovation, etc. It's just so big a lot of money, and that's why it's such a big decision to keep that much money in one company, if I mention the Bank of Iceland in particular in that regard. I'm glad people want to talk about these matters in the great context of things and want to be able to cooperate with the committee in her work. I appreciate your objective discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u91	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct customs laws and other laws. By the fall of 2018, public pay, once cared for by customs manager, was brought to the governor of the tax from May 1, 2019, by law No. 142/2018. The integration of the Agency's activities has been particularly successful, with the emphasis on improved services and improved administrative management with simpler, more efficient and more efficient pressures, and the collection of public costs under control. It is now suggested by the bill that the customs and customs service provided by the customs manager will be brought to the head of the tax from January 1, 2020. At that point, there will be one powerful agency that the governor is directing and is proposed to be the taxpayer to assist with the legal work assigned to him. The Government Treaty emphasizes that Iceland prepares to meet the challenges and uses the opportunities of rapid technological change. They will meet up with new requirements for staff education and qualifications and an environment that encourages innovation in all areas, including the public. Among the challenges that the State must face are the growing demands of public and professional life for self-exploitation and digital public service. Thus, rapid changes require a flexible framework and a variety of employees who need new knowledge and skills. It is important that the tax and tax authorities can deal with the changes that are taking place, especially in increased self-activating activities of the EICs and increase the availability of digital services. Scar changes are the tax and tax authorities' requirements for changing work practices, improving tax efficiency, and improved quality of services and management. For such to be achieved, there must be a powerful management unit that can deal with changing demands for public service. At the same time, change in business practices, increased network markets, and electronic trade across borders requiring growth and increasing cooperation with the institutions involved in these issues, and a new approach to ensuring public revenues. The main focus of the bill involves the transformation of the work of uniting the customs and customs services currently carried out by the head of the trade and the work carried out by the governor of the tax. Together, the head of Customs, who has not been appointed since October 1, 2018, would be laid down and the governor of the tax would thus be the head of the united office. However, the Toll Care Factor would be designed for some special place in the united office where a special unit would be set up under the management of a customs officer who heard under the government tax adviser. It can be assumed that great additive effects and economic benefits will be achieved by the collective agreement between the head of the tax and the head of the toll. This is especially true in handling a variety of user systems, hardware systems, Internet services, and user services. A larger unit is better equipped to ensure safety and security in access and management of information. At the same time, there is an increased potential for improved integration of data and data through tax and customs monitoring. Compatibility of tax and customs data also increases the potential for more targeted and effective monitoring. In addition, there is an opportunity to promote the activities of tax and tax authorities across the country. With a united government tax manager and toll manager, one powerful and leading information and service agency is better equipped to meet challenges for the future than two less independent organizations. It may be important that, in the context of the proposed changes, changes in management and the presentation and information flow to employees will be effective. In view of the interests of both partners, it is necessary that the transition process take place as soon as possible. Jobs are not expected to be laid down, but they will be transferred from the toll manager to the governor of the tax. However, it is inevitable that the organization will develop over the course of time and that the organization will be organized so that good planning and efficient tax gain will be combined. It can be assumed that the change will result in social benefits and financial benefits that will promote the work and reduce the costs of total customs and tax monitoring without affecting government services and tax and toll yields. Then it is assumed that the cost of staging will be within the legal rights of the 05 Skatta, property, and finance. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the talk on this matter, which has much good in it. I'm very happy to set up an institution that's likely to promote tax recovery, improve it, simplify my record, e.g. When miscalculation occurs, and increases the ability of men to collect it, but I have to admit that I am a little sktopish at the part of customs that attracts to customs on the border. That's when I'm talking about the German customs department, which, in fact, has been on a budget probably for 10 to 15 years. I'm worried that October 22 is measured for a bill that's supposed to be legal for next year, after 70 days. At that time, to discuss the bill, send it to the committee, discuss it there, accept it here, it's to change the terms of employment, or anyway, an environment, a number of people in 70 days. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to two. This suggests an opportunity to promote the activities of the local tax authorities. I'll ask them how it works. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: Is it not a matter of concern to him that a large proportion of the employees who are supposed to work according to these new laws, if approved, express great doubts and seem to be very opposed to the bill as it appears today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u93	A respectable president. I believe that there may be some economic advantage in bringing together organizations like these two, especially with regard to all aspects of the service. That's where I'm pointing to the same place, for example. Technology, information systems, possibly when further into the future, housing, shopping, human resources, etc. So that a united unity can achieve greater force and will be a economic advantage that will enhance our ability to put money where we want to primarily direct it, to our own duties on the border, as it were. A senator mentions. A stronger institution can achieve such goals in my opinion. This is linked to the need for us at some branch offices, e.g. In the country, in the field, in the pursuit of these tasks more follow-up, and with more character, as well. A senator admitted that he had been a real challenge. Because of the increase in the number of tourists and as well as the number of inmates, these activities have been under great pressure. Asks me if I am not concerned that those who are on the customs guard side of this union have doubts or concerns. Yes, I have seen it, and that's why I called for it to be responded. One reaction is that in the preparation of this case, a decision is made to establish a special unit under the management of a customs officer who is under the government of the tax authorities. There's a reaction in these matters. It can be noted that those who are referred to have not been completely satisfied with the situation just as it is. Hopefully, this can improve their working circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is also noted in the review of the Customs Society that consultations with the Society and members have been completely inadequate in preparation for this bill. The question is, is it now, e.g. while this matter must be handled by the council, making specific consultations with the personnel companies, e.g. Iceland's customs club, to get people close to this project in a more favorable way than it is here? Another question. A variety of equipment necessary for customs protection on the border has been greatly advanced in many places. Then the question must be raised: As soon as the operation is strengthened by a larger office, and with greater force, probably giving the new office the dowry that the technology will be restored and the equipment that the customs, especially on the border, has to be handled, and is replaced in a more powerful way than has been done. ten years or so? Of course, you're right. A minister spoke of both the increase in tourism and the increase in the increase in the number of prostitutes. I'd also like to draw attention to the proliferation of speed signals and mails. I'd also like to remind you that it's now very much being picked up in Iceland by drug import. We'll see that there's a big increase, and I can cover it later. But I want to know: How will people react when a new office begins?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u95	A respectable president. That's mostly two questions, possibly three. First of all, whether to consult. After this discussion is concluded, the matter will be discussed and discussed. I have no doubt that among the work that awaits the committee is to review comments again and ask the questions that will be responsible for this facility, and there my ministry will be prepared to give answers as far as it is possible. I'd like to mention in the context that the head of the IRS is going to be the former toll manager of Iceland, Snorri Olsen, who knows all the work at hand. A senator mentions. This should lead to increasing understanding and belief that customs will in no way be peripheralized in a united institution. Rather, they were for a short time a major project and the role of the head of the Agency. It contains all the knowledge of key tasks. However, I will not belittle that it may have been that way in recent years and even to some extent, that we have to work on the cumulative problems, e.g. on the renewal of instruments and such factors. I can't say anything different than how I accept the importance of caring for these projects because well - equipped customs, especially for various diagnostic tools, are absolutely essential to our achieving the results we are going to pursue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u96	V.E.G. President. As many know, including. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance, the Central Party has probably submitted it. Two years of careful suggestions on advancing customs in the country. These have been some thought - provoking and specific suggestions, e.g. to renew the customs manager's X - ray car, which is now in her late teens and that it has not been replaced, but it takes a huge amount of money to do so. We have also suggested that there be an increase in the number of customs on the border and that we build it up with very sound evidence. We also called attention to the need for additional funds from the local taxpayer and toll manager's office, i.e. increased financial resources, to continue to collect, and to promote tax recovery. In recent answers to what is stated here from the highest. The financial secretary, who took a long time to hit each other, turns out that the estimated tax frauds every year are about 80 billion bucks. We were already dealing with a national fund that was supposed to develop out of 10 billion a year into the future. We're talking about 80 billion on tax fraud. We have also, in itself, been able to prove it, to show various aspects of their tax fraud. Any activity that would have been specifically exposed to tax fraud could have been eliminated. Then I'm going to remind you to the highest. Tourism, innovation, and industrial development ministers have made a special effort to record bed rests in the land adopted by Airbnb, but six years ago they were recorded less than 10%. This is a safety issue for the sleepers. This is also a financial factor for rural society and government funds. In recent response to the signature query to the highest. The campaign was found to be at the highest level. A minister had passed through the account that about one third of such property is currently listed. The estimate was made that tax fraud is a large amount in that sector. It was learned that there could be some 6,5 billion a year, and we were discussing an earlier national fund to be created by placing 10 billion each year. Now I'm forbidden to quote Inspector Clouseau even though I'd wanted to, but these are not small, so I'll try to review what he said about the year. These are not little ones, but great money, and as a result, this united office, which is to be set up after 70 days, gets, as I said before, the dowry that it will work well and go as one says, not on one foot, but with power, that everyone who has to participate in this adventure will be able to do it in the process of change. It's a great adventure to be involved in changing institutions, and you have experience with it. If so, how strongly it is that everyone is on the same page and that everyone has the same goal and is making the same decision! That's why it worries me, Mr. President, for example. in the trade union of tax guards, which makes it possible to carry the heat and weight of customs on the border from here to now, is most difficult to do with the bill as it appears, that it is impossible to be satisfied with the lack of consultation that has apparently been added to this bill's contract and the preparation of the whole case. The uncertainty and dissatisfaction must be eliminated in some way. It must be destroyed in this way, I believe, that they are confident of what role they have continued in a new office and that they will stand firm for the work they are to do. There's another thing I can point out. It seems to me that the report indicated that border customs service has no chance of being on the border. More common with law enforcement than collect. Then I must ask: If this is any dubing of changing customs, which is by nature the law enforcement class, by uniting it in any way, I would have believed that men would have taken longer to change so that we weren't doing it in many chapters. First of all, by uniting these two areas of service, these two offices, and with the thought that even after a relatively short time, it would need to come back and change the customs guard to the point where he has something to do with the police. To this end, because in opposition to the minister of the past, the noble official who is likely to direct this new joint organization, I'm just going to say from this chair that I have full confidence in the current tax president who was formerly a customs manager. I trust him to do his job well, so that's what they say here. There is no suspicion in my mind about a particular person about this change, yet it must be ensured that the change that is significant will benefit from it. I'm also going to mention dogs, because I've been talking about equipment and human resources in customs care and the suggestions the media's put out for two years. We've been suggesting for the past two years that there will be a difference between a pack of dogs and a guard. If this were not a serious matter, it might even be possible to have in the chase that the customs guard is now training dogs to look for money, since customs has been quite successful for many of the gentlemen for years. It's just a lot more serious than it can be done. That's why I insist. A minister to ensure that, for example, at the time of the year when a new institution begins, she will be in that position. saw by dogs that things are going to be much better than they have been in the past few years. That's the end of the operation, i.e. The fishery, if I may, Mr. President, the border customs, and the search and analysis work, etc., has been accomplished in the past few years, I'm a total of ten, even 15 years, of too few. She's been studied. Devices have not been updated as they should. This has led to long - term disease in the group of people who carry a fever and load of this activity in these very difficult situations. There's been coldness. I know that these fine workers are very enthusiastic about doing their job well and with vigilance, which shows the results of what humans have been doing in this situation. The result is clear. As I pointed out earlier, Iceland is now a target for international crime involved in smuggling drugs. This is clearly clear because we see events that will not be explained in any way other than the fact that people are going into this market here. It must be taken. Failure to do so will result in complete loss of control with tragic consequences, and we are already seeing the disastrous results. We have come to see that the first addiction to large sections of young people involved in the treatment of Vogi, where the waiting lists are all too long as in other countries, seems largely cocaine addiction. This is an extremely serious issue, so I still say: If this united new agency is to begin in a positive, safe, and purposeful manner, it must be kept in mind, especially now. We're about to get through 2nd. budgets will be provided, once again, by the central category. As in the past, the category will provide funding suggestions. I mentioned a few of the sums mentioned earlier that have to do with the organization. First of all, it's the 80 billion as employees of the highest level. Secretary of finance estimates that the launch is just ahead in Iceland every year. I told them earlier that this operation had been successful for ten years, and it has leaked down 800 billion at the time if this human plan is quite accurate. Even if we can't get 10 percent of it, that's 8 billion bucks. each year or 80 billion more than the ten years we are talking about and, as I mentioned, tax fraud, the avoidance that can be applied to certain sectors. I'm not trying to tear them down or talk them down in any way, but I'm building them in answer to the highest. Minister for my inquiry. We are in one type of work to speak of some 6◯6.5 billion who are being undermined. Then I'll say again, even if we can't get 10% of that amount, it's 666,650 million. K. every year. To that end, I am glad that this activity, i.e. The tax, the increase in power, the increase in stroke power, the increased possibility of improving government funds, and to further the tax system over the head and prevent the maximum ahead. I am very happy about this, but I really hope that when the council takes this bill to be paid, it will be better to consult with the employees or groups of employees who are to bear the burdens of the years and to carry this torch into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u97	President wants to point them out. For a senator, it is not forbidden to refer to Ispector Clouseau, but if so, it is in English with a French accent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u98	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this matter of customs and customs care arrangements, as it stands, which is, in fact, the integration of customs and the head of the state taxpayer under this new name, the taxation. In view of all that's mentioned in the bill and underneath, I think it's a pretty good idea for them, all the arrangements we make in the service of tax and customs managers will be most alert. I think it's the input of this bill. In view of the fourth industrial revolution, all the changes, self - efficiency, and other changes we face, I think that may be of the good. I like that it's early for customs to have a special place within the government tax manager's office. It is not that part of the work disappears and becomes eaten up by the governor of the tax; it is also to be put under his head. As a minister did well, there is something that can be said to be shared with them and in common that used the office, whether it is information from these systems or the combined data found there, but I am primarily aware that it is also useful to those in the service, to us who need to have these relationships. The bill's report speaks of an increased potential for self - subsidies and a stronger income fund. I think they're both positive. However, the growth of human resources, better coordination, better technology, and all of that is not only spoken of by public services. I think it's very important. One thing the government is going to stress is to distribute public work across the country. It's part of the evidence for this change, and I think the committee needs to call for clear details on how to predict it. The development of one taxpayer at the time, likely one of the most successful alliances in the government. Although a new tax manager is being taken, I expect that there is an inner knowledge of what was done back then and that was a success. I can say I'm worried about what. A senator who spoke before me about the short time below to land the case, especially in the face of opposition from the customs. There's a knot before you leave, and it's never good. I expect, though, to have a flat meeting on how to apply it. As we shall see, a lot has to be done and a review of a number of factors involved in this work. If we accept this matter even before December, we must remember that when we are uniting organizations or making major changes, it is in almost always best place for us to take effect at the end of the year. It's always best, and I can say that time is short. The last speaker spoke of a lot of things here that certainly belong with law enforcement, such as are killed in a paper with the bill. So you can ask yourself, and I guess it will be discussed in the Committee how both the Ministry involved, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice will see to it these contact points. I expect there's an opportunity to improve the border guard that's been very discussed here. As soon as I say we can move out the work, I drop it here until I think we're going e.g. Not well with money in many respects today when it comes to customs. If I look at the border mystery that's in the East, I think we'll have to make a change there. It referred to an enormous import of drugs. A huge amount has been taken this year with Nora. It's not wise, since the Norwegian comes once a week, just the ferry outside the people who come, that we always sell people from the Eastern capital area, even with dogs. This isn't the only place that any other cruise ship will come, but there we are clearly on cruises all year round, and we've been getting a whole lot bigger and bigger. I think we need to think again about sending people from the capital area east to have dogs and money, and this in itself doesn't take very long. I hope that there will be one of the co-ordinates both moving out jobs but also strengthening the security here is a bit being talked about, the contact phase between. I think it's very important. It also speaks of social economy and economic benefits and the need for this to be contained within financial resources. I think we can do even better by rethinking this. I certainly hope that the minister and his officials who are going to appear before the committee are considering this. I don't know if there's information on the actual cost of holding out employees. We have, for example. Together in the East Police Department, work ratios have been reduced and shut down. There's no police station in Southland. This is a very special situation in which we have a wide - open portal into the country and the nature of the situation, according to the guidelines, we try to take advantage of it. I encourage officials on a financial and business committee in particular to look at this, but I also encourage a minister to think about it and ask his superior officials to see if money is better handled by having people there but not constantly moving it back and forth. It's not like the person would just care for Sufficiency, it's like there's more portals on the east side. I don't have to talk about this much. I agree with the approach that there's a lot of touch here. The agreement should mean much better service, especially for people who shop a lot through the Internet. As mentioned here, the number of international challenges in an electronic store is increasing. With regard to this general relationship with the customs authorities and at the same time that the tax is capable of paying more attention, I do not doubt that the benefits could be very good. I reiterate that I agree with what it says, that we need to work together carefully, and in view of the urgency of our times, it may be necessary to look to the committee for room. Other than that, I am satisfied with the situation, and I have confidence that it will follow scattered tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u99	Mr. President. I'm not gonna keep this far, but I'm gonna have some manners. We'll discuss a bill to correct customs and other laws. In short, these laws are intended to put down the office of the head of Customs and to take over the government tax authorities'rights and duties. In this way, the customs manager's employees, if this change is approved, will be sent to the head of state after 1st January. The terms of the Law are said to be in harmony with the government covenant, and this is essential for us to be better equipped to meet the challenges and to take advantage of the opportunities of rapid technological change. The report then stated: They will have new qualifications for staff training and an environment that encourages innovation in all areas, including for the government. Among the challenges that the State must face are the growing demands of public and professional life for self-exploitation and digital public service. Thus, rapid changes require a flexible framework and a variety of employees who need new knowledge and skills. When you read this, you might think that everything was in coldwash at the customs manager's office. These words are saying that they have to follow the technique and be in place, etc., there are fast - moving changes, and therefore this office needs to be united. This gives you the idea that everything has been going down. It is said that it is expanding and increasing Kingdom funds and making them more powerful. I can sign it. It is considered that there is a need to improve the quality of the service and the efficiency of taxing, as well as the practicality of business management. That is understandable. This last bill was, Mr. President, collecting public pay from the customs manager in the middle of this year to the governor of the tax, as well as that which has not been appointed to the customs manager's office since October just a year ago. This is preceded by this bill, i.e. The transfer of public pay from the toll manager to the government tax manager. So here it is suggested that the transfer be made to the head of the tax, but the institution to which it directs will also be named because the original name of the tax, as stated in Article 90. The bill says that the head of the taxpayer controls an institution called the IRS that cares for the legal work assigned to him. The aims of the change are said to increase efficiency in tax management, stress, and the collection of public pay. Yes, of course. The report on the bill suggests that great synergies and economic advantages are achieved by the full agreement between the head of the state tax and the head of the toll, which is carried out in operations and on computer use. I'm not against government management at all, and I'm afraid it's too late for the state to be manipulated. Therefore I am not laid up against the kingdoms of the world, and their reduction, by no means. I have only a few comments that I hope will be considered in the Committee that will discuss this matter. I have had some experience with such activities, both collecting public pay as a body collector and also working as customs manager for several years. I've wondered about a lot of things, for example. whether or not here is a compatible role within this new organisation and its activities, whether this has been specifically checked. I realize that while collecting public pay, it is not new to pay the taxes. It was by law last year. The inside of a toll manager was transferred under the tax authorities. But it's going further now. The customs and customs department are being transferred under the IRS as well. Then you wonder: " Is it compatible? I won't say, but I'd like the committee to look at this in view of the fact that not many years ago, so-called county members also had police and customs and collected public pay. All this. That was impossible. This was not to be, and it was gradually plucked. But now it's about to be transferred to the tax authorities, i.e. what was once on the hands of the same man who had a police control over his mind has now arrived in the hands of the tax manager, the tax tax taxpayer in this case, and has gone a long way. I wondered, " Is this truly compatible? ' Could there be an event in which this overlaps and is not appropriate? We need to realize that the government tax manager determines the stress of taxes. He puts taxes and has a ruling authority as far as it goes in the law. He's also in charge of customs and customs patrols. I refer to customs guards, under whoever they are now after this bill's change, to have police authority. They have police authority under law in their field. So, in this case, there's a tax manager, the governor of the tax, with police officials. I wondered if it's the role of employees under the head of the government that will be heard after the change, whether this was specifically examined, whether there's a possible conflict that might arise in regard to the current role of the head of state taxation, the collection, the covert role, the police authority assigned to the taxpayers. I wish for the committee to think about this and to call out to them some knowledgeable men in that field so that they can distinguish it from the basement, so that we are not following a path that will later show that we are going badly. The experience from the county agency where the politicians had many compartments in their drawers was not a good pair. So now, it's moving in a different direction, to the governor of the tax. That's my first comment. It is in many ways similar to that of an office, i.e. customs and government tax management. I'd like to agree with that, too. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson person I believe is very important in this case that it will be carefully considered to be the role of customs on the border and that it will not be set aside but that if this bill becomes legal, the result will not be put aside. It's very important. The role of customs and customs on the borders of the country must not be diminished. Tolls have been put up with both human food and other severe equipment, such as labour. paritaprevir Sæmundsson has often pointed to a public address. This change, if it becomes legal, must not result in continued maintenance, but rather that the value of customs work on the border. I'd like to point out two more, three more things. First of all, regarding the discussions that have been here today and the great opposition that exists at the Toll Watch Society or customs of customs who have strongly opposed these changes and complained that the effects of the bill are not sufficiently intelligent. I've identified a few things that need to be considered. These changes should take effect on January 1, after two and a half months. I think this is a rather short period of time, and especially since it is in opposition to a great class that would result in taking up an entirely different office. Of course, it is not good to make such changes with the fact that these classes have not been adequately consulted. It is important that such changes are made in as much harmony as possible with the groups in the field, as any changes should, of course. Finally, Mr. President, I want to point out the changes that have taken place in the past few years, repeating that the customs, the collection - that is not surprising, of course, even at the highest level. Secretary of finance will come up here in a pit and declare it's been going very well, i.e. The change in bringing the collection of public remunerations. I'm not saying anything at all, because their remunerations may well fit in with the government tax manager at all, not at all. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about customs management, pointing out that it's been moved all the way from the old county in 10 or 12 years, moving customs, customs guards, all the way from the old county to the governor of state tax. The big question to me is, Is that consistent? Is this something that can cause conflict in the activities of this new agency? It is in the same hand that I ask: Is this power fully compatible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u100	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws and the laws on the local payment of public pay. The bill was submitted to a 149th legislature, then a threshing floor. 593, 433, and entered the Economic and Business Committee after 1st. treatment was not completed. The bill contains suggestions for making four changes to the above laws. First, a review of the taxation of foreign legislation in low taxes, so-called CFC regulations, second of the Union taxation directive, third of the rules for a reserve of interest restrictions and, finally, taxation modalities of employees. The bill includes a review of the current CFC regulations for further explanations and on the basis of proposed international proposals. As with the current provision, the main purpose of a new arrangement is to allow taxation of CC office in this country to prevent or avoid taxation in Iceland. The current provision has been in force since 2010, but there is a need to sharpen and strengthen the law on international developments in the OECD and the European Union. The aim of these changes is primarily to ensure the proper distribution of taxes and to provide a warning effect on tax refugees. The bill's proposal for changing the rules of partner integration is submitted to address the EFTA comment on the current common taxation regulations. In accordance with the bill, the national daughters of the EEA and EFTA countries, as well as the Faeroe Islands, which are located here in the United States, will be allowed to match the body of other member countries. It is also requested by the EFTA Institute of Monitoring to remove the conditions set by law in 2018, law No. 77/2018, that the loss of a fixed work station is only detractable from an Icelandic partner that it is not possible to balance with a foreign partner on a permanent basis. It is then suggested to establish an expanded access to domestic communities from the limitations of the interest extraction rules, but the current access failed on January 1, 2019. The exception will be linked to organizations that have access to common taxation. Rules on the limitation of interest clearance are aimed at favouring tax reform in cross-border trade practices between linked persons. The same evidence does not apply to domestic interest payments, but such trade remains the norms of arms length. Finally, changes in tax obligations are presented in connection with renting labor or other forms of work done by foreign workers here on the basis of construction or construction projects. There is a need to expand the responsibility and duty of the domestic parties as remuneration agreements of foreign workers for jobs in this country. A respectful president deserves to be legalized by the CFC Community bill that reviews will be more effective in achieving improved taxpayers whose taxes are directly or indirectly owned by the CFC society. Factors that the tax authorities are most likely to face in the monitoring of international communities are a problem in obtaining the necessary information and after reports of data. This is true not only of information about the existence of such associates but also of their income and other incidents. These problems will not be completely solved with this provision, but these are steps in the right direction. Experience has shown that there is a strong tendency to hide ownership of CFC societies and therefore it is difficult to assess the impact of the directive in terms of figures. It is thought that the bill of taxation will carry some additional cost, at least to a shorter time, where a contract will be opened by domestic areas that extend beyond the cliffs. However, there is no way to assess this effect at this stage but it will be manifested as a decrease in income taxation due to the compatibility of loss within the kit immediately after which it would otherwise have been observed in longer periods of time. The Regulation on the terms of annuity of income tax laws on the limitation of interest costs is not likely to result in an increase in cost to the state's funds, since the law has not come to include domestic partnerships. An assessment of the impact of the Community Directive on the export of employees on government income is considered to be a direct impact on individual income taxes, responses, and insurance bills. It is the financial and economic evaluation that the impact on the increase in income taxes in the individual population will be between 50 and 100 billion. K. per year, on average, the period of a five - year financial program, an effect for an increase in insurance costs in an increase of about 100 to 200 million. K. every year, on average. Likewise, the rural society will benefit from this provision. Thus, the overall impact on government income is estimated at 150 to 300 million. K. every year, after a person discount has been withdrawn to an extract. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u101	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the law of Icelandic citizenship. These are changes to several of the laws of the law that require conditions for the granting of citizens' rights. The main changes suggested to a waiting period for civil rights due to fines. The change is mainly to increase the clearance of the Foreign Institute to provide citizens' rights when the applicant is guilty. In line with the laws of foreigners, there are small changes in the period of residence and the clearance of a foreigner to a foreigner abroad. These are proposed changes in the contributions of Member States and the implementation criteria. It is also suggested that the law be reinstated in order to reimburse Icelandic citizenship. In particular, the primary objective of the bill is to prevent any increase in the amount of fines due to traffic violations from entering the original national law of due to punishment. It's a change of the 6th over the 9th. The law therefore considered reasonable, since the period for citizens' rights to be held would in some cases be extended and longer than expected at the current sentence of the current law. In addition, some time has passed since the current wait - time limit was legalized, which was done by a change in citizens' law in 2012. In order to improve the possibility of the Foreign Institute for Civil Rights, it is also suggested that even though the applicant has repeatedly committed a crime, waiting time will be extended by each offense. In the past, the Agency has had to deny the civil rights in the case of the Agency, unless it was a punitive punishment common to the total population of less than 101,000. Second, the bill attempts to prevent any errors between laws about foreigners and local rights that have developed after the sentence of a new law on foreigners that became valid on January 1, 2017. After the change, the BNCs are the same for the granting of an untimely resort and for the civil rights of an Icelandic citizen's partner, i.e. three years. This is not fully consistent with the purpose of a citizen's law, which has been designed to produce the right to an indefinite resort before it is possible to apply for an Icelandic citizen's right. So when the bill suggests that the partner of the Icelandic citizen needs to have been living here for four years before the right to a citizen's right to become a citizen. Then there are sources of living abroad before applying for civil rights made clearer and, in some respects, exonerated. It's even the point of it. adapting the rules to foreigners and to enhance their clarity, but experience has shown that more detailed rules are needed. The suggestions also take into account the change in social and employment practices from the current sentence. Third, a new recommendation related to a donation or proof of who the applicant is, if the information is not correct, is presented. If this is the case, the amount of time the applicant has been living here on the basis of insufficient or incorrect information is not included as a place to live. A more progressive arrangement is laid up, but that change is not material. It is recently suggested that if the applicant is considered a threat to important national interests, he is not entitled to Icelandic citizenship. Fifth, it is suggested that a reimbursement be made to reimburse the Icelandic citizenship of those who have lost their Icelandic citizenship by applying for another citizen in the old law. This source has twice been temporary in the law but failed on July 1, 2016. The duration of the Law is not expected to be as limited as previously indicated. Finally, abbreviated period of Norwegian citizens applying for citizenship is proposed on the basis of the Norwegian civil rights contract from seven years to three years to meet those candidates. In preparation for the bill, there were some factors. consult with the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, which brings the payment of citizens. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill. Due to recent increases in traffic laws, changes in waiting rules due to punishment have become urgent. It is also important that our system be clearly taken into account by changing social practices. Our system must be designed so that people who come here know what procedure they're applying for civil rights, that they don't go to the council that should be able to solve by general rules and hopefully with the approval of this bill. The bill aims to improve the effectiveness and transparency of the law by improving the clarity of some of the rules that recommend the grant of Icelandic citizen's rights. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u102	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the review. Several questions arise while reading the bill. There's a lot of good things there to say first. It is fine to update numbers on the level of fines to today, and it is very positive, and there are other positive things. But there are a few questions that I wondered about. It's, for example. a word that has infiltrated the B-Grit 1st. which is as follows, by permission of the president: It is advisable to deviate from these conditions if the applicant's stay in the country has been interrupted for up to one year in total at the time it must meet. It's the word "stupid" that I'm pushing over because it's all the possible time you've been in a foreign country. That's when you roll, for example. Visualize the experts employed in the country who also work for their relatives or who live in foreign companies because of their work. This may lead to the failure of experts to qualify for citizenship because of this one word that has now been added to the law. I wondered if a minister can answer why this has come in or if it is a mistake that then needs to be fixed. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for which I agree that a lot of good things have to be done, that's why I have experience as head of the General and Education Committee. For the law that it refers to, the word "saltary," that is, nothing is being changed. In fact, all conditions are being cleared. There's no change in the fact that you can go to school abroad for up to three years, that I think, and stay abroad because of the circumstances. This law is intended to clear up and explain the current rules. I cannot quickly see that this only word goes anywhere from what is present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u104	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I have to disagree with her. When making laws, we need to be specific. If you compare this bill with the laws they are today, that word has been added. This means that up to one year, up to one year in total, and it can change considerably. All the time, either four years or longer, that works as an expert. e.g. To stay abroad because of their work may prevent the person from ever being given the citizenship rights. We are in such an international environment in various fields, science, culture, innovation, even legalization, that experts are straying from country to country. The new paragraph to add 9 Article 6 that the Minister should set up in Regulation of further regulations on implementation of Figures 1 and 5 of Figures 1. mgr., a little push, i.e. On one hand, the applicant should prove in an insufficient way who he is and how he or she is in the process. I have to say, I don't have a very good feeling about it when too much power is given to a minister to set up regulations because we have no particular experience with the Ministry of Justice in the past. Then I'm referring to what happened before the Supreme Court. Minister took office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is how you can stay abroad for three consecutive months. Now the warrant is actually being extended. Of course, it is the purpose of the law to look to them in order for people to travel more. It goes to other countries because of various matters. As shown in the report on the bill, stay abroad may also be heard by a professional partner or a parent who works abroad on the Icelandic government or is an employee of the International Bureau. This is taken into account by Article 10. Act of lawhouse and residence. Exceptions are based on maximum permission to live abroad, which is, for example, the case. no longer allowed to spend more than two years abroad because of employment and three years for study. It is permitted here to stay for two years abroad for jobs and three years for study and stay for up to 90 days in a 12-month period is not unique. This is discussed in the individual articles of the bill, about 1. g., and I believe these changes are good and will be exposed to changing emphasis in various ways. Other than that, I thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u106	Mr. President. I want to reiterate that there are things better in this bill than what was presented in the last winter's consultations of the government, especially that it is not to take the citizens' rights completely out of the hands of the Generals, but to keep them in. Seemingly to whom that arrangement is, it has often served as an emotional sign, as we have often seen that when politicians or even ministers get such a person into the heart and want to pay the person's way, despite the fact that the individual does not meet the conditions, at the same time as others who are even less well - known individuals do not get the same service here. That is especially what you wonder why you should remain. But I still think that this strategist must be because the law is clear when it comes to granting civil rights of government and the act of the law has been made so that there has been no exception to the government. On the other hand, if the Lawgiver's will is to provide an exception, then it is worthy to consider whether further provisions are to be given and to be offered to the government to evaluate each other. As mentioned earlier, there are positive factors in this, e.g. disappearance from the last winter's presentation of the change but also what appears in Article 3. The bill for raising any recognizable level of fines, in line with the number of fines in the modern world. If there's a dollar number in the law, it's necessary to get up and up, as it happens. There are some things that draw attention to one another. ome, e.g. of 2 st. which says, by permission of the President: The applicant has proved sufficiently who he is. If the applicant turns out he or she has stayed on the land on the basis of a non-employment card or information that does not prove to be correct, then the residence time will not be counted out as the amount of deposit at 8 st. Then there is the amount of time that the person will decide that he meets the requirements for citizens' rights. You wonder why it's being added into the law. If, after the release, the person has been granted deposit in Iceland on the basis of false conditions, it is, of course, criminally criminally guilty and may be removed from the country by the law of justice. It should also be judged, according to Article 3. The bill or the 9th bill. law on Icelandic civil rights, to address the individual's potential for Icelandic citizen's rights. If he gets a probationary sentence, he has no chance of getting citizenship until after three years since probation. If you get that prison sentence, say up to six months, for using the wrong ID to get some kind of rights here, eight years will pass since punishment was handed down, or from the release of parole until he can apply for citizenship first. So I believe that the proposed law is kind of a bastard in these laws and is not exactly what it is for. I must commend the author of the bill for dropping number two in number 9. Er, he was about to get two important parties to confirm that the person was now a very pleasant citizen, and they were allowed their data, and it appears in the bill, in the data flood that needs to be submitted into this process. You don't know what the government did with that paper, getting to know that someone was very nice, so you should get a citizenship. These are small in the spirit of those who were providing candidates with rich blessings and are as good as falling away. It also calls attention to a new arrangement to follow the 6th into 9th. g., that the person considered to be a threat to the important national interest, national security, or foreign policy is not entitled to the Icelandic citizen's rights. You wonder how this is going to be measured. On page 18. 10 of the bill report will discuss this and tell you that there is a particular protection if specific reasons are considered to be against citizens' rights, despite the fact that even the applicant meets all the general requirements for citizens' rights interest. You wonder, " Where does this enter the bill?'and who appreciates that someone is considered a threat to foreign policy or what it is in the person who will be evaluated as such? ' It is said that the Foreign Institute, or the case of the Ministry, as a federal authority puts the matter in place that State Department opinions before making a decision on the welfare of citizens' rights. It will be interesting to hear from the visitors who are expected to be called before the committee in order to introduce this bill rather what was behind the fact that this law has entered the bill and is to become law because it did not appear in the public talk. Minister. I've mentioned, and said it in opposition to, when it comes to having sex, when the applicant is the partner of an Icelander who lives abroad. Then there may be some time abroad, but there is really no room for what is now permitted in Icelandic law for a husband and wife to sign a legal home in their own place. Foreign citizens who are going to apply here for citizenship will not enjoy the same privileges as other couples when it comes to registering legal homes in their respective homes. The question is, Do not specific instructions need to be published as soon as people apply for a visa and are granted a living permit? The Icelandic government has the right to give immediately, as soon as a deposit is delivered, information that the person does not have the same rights as any other couple in Iceland regarding permission to register lawhouses, because this will prevent the person from applying for the Icelandic citizen's rights later. I think that it is absolutely fundamental that the government should have that information because there may be a very severe deterioration in future rights. I think we need to secure it and legalize it so that the government can fulfill that obligation. I think I'm gonna call it a day. I'm not going to go over the points I'm going to write in, I've already said there's some good points on the bill, and I don't have it any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u107	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to explain what happened a little bit. A senator went in, especially in opposition earlier, since I didn't think it was clear enough. First of all, there's a new o-computer in Unit 1. that it is permitted to deviate from these conditions the applicant's stay in the country has been interrupted for up to one year in total at the time it must meet. However, it is up to two years of temporary foreign employment that is now a year. In fact, we do not need any unique conditions, uncontrollable circumstances, or anything else to go for up to a total of one year. It doesn't have to be explained any further, and then there will be no breach in the process of applying for civil rights. Of course, this is so as to handle the changing practices that we see and deal with them that people can stay not just for a year but two years away - they are extended over a year - in temporary employment or for other uncontrollable reasons. It will also be given a year without further explanation. There is no special reason for the same reason today, for us not to lose out or to be torn up in the citizen's rights. Then perhaps I would like to mention just one thing, just because of the other. A senator will take into account that the applicant is considered to be a threat to important national interests and ask why that law is in and who appreciates it. It is largely incorporated into the law because it has been put into the alien law, and this is a bill that is done a bit to conform to the foreigners'laws, in which we are trying to explain these laws, and especially because such laws are also found in the laws around us, in the North countries. Then, of course, there are issues that arise. If such an opinion ever arises, whether the applicant is considered to be a threat to national interest, it is right that the Foreign Institute, or after some case by the Department of State, should take the matter into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u108	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister to the counter, however, must correct it because, by permission of the president, the current law states: It is advisable to deviate from these conditions that the applicant's stay here has been interrupted for up to one year because of temporary jobs abroad or for uncontrollably reasons, such as the illness of close relatives, but up to three years in foreign studies. However, the amount of time that the applicant has had in this home and stay must be at least as long as he/she has to meet at the same time. 1 mg It's in the law now. That's what's at the top. As regards a marriage mate, a minister is likely to talk about a new decision. It's in the law now. What's being changed is, by permission of the President, everything I said before: The applicant's stay here has been interrupted for up to one year due to temporary...◯ will be: The applicant's stay here has been interrupted up to one year in total at the time it must meet... It's on the bill. It's shaking at the highest. Minister of the head, and I wondered if I don't have the right bill in my hands, what was distributed here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u109	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator has the right bill in his hands. The change is that there is a sentence that in many respects resembles the existing sentence directly quoted in temporary employment or other uncontrolled circumstances. This is taken apart, so one year doesn't need an explanation. One year may be because it is a woman who wants to go home to her family for a year or so, whether she wants to go for three months in a single place and two months in another place, to travel abroad, or to travel abroad, and then there is an extended period of up to one year, and then it lasts for two years, such as temporary jobs abroad or other uncontrollable reasons. So I just wanted to make this clear because I understand that this can only get in the way of a man. This is further discussed in the bill's report, and, of course, as I have said, in order to try to meet changing social practices, to have the rules available for more people to wish for it, and it is clear to go to the Foreign Institute, in spite of travel and employment and other abroad, or whatever other reasons people might have for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-22-23.u110	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the explanation. She's absolutely right, that's the one that says it's breaking apart and connected badly again. Thank you so much for your explanation.
