ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u1	Borist has been reporting from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs requiring deadlines to provide a written answer for the application of this application. 97, about the property and income of the people of the land in 2018, from Logi Einarsson. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 114, about forced sales and interest in individuals, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u2	Borist has a letter from the fourth. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, "that he will not be able to attend next week. As reported on the General Assembly on Thursday, the General Assembly took up residence as an assistant to him on the 1st Union list in the district, Margrét Tryggvadóttir. There's been a letter received from the 10th. South, Smári Mccarthy, that he'll be absent on official business. So yesterday, on Monday, October 7th, at the General Assembly, he was serving as a deputy of the 1st Porta Art, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir. Both of them have taken their seats in the former Council and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Transport, Industrial and Development Ministers, Ministers of Social Affairs and Childbearing, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Ministers of Justice and Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u4	Mr. President. In my opinion, bad news comes from the United States. As we know, the president of the United States has decided to let Turks into Kurdah's territory and, in my opinion, a certain violence. It's bad and terrible news that I believe Western democracy has to deal with. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether the government has discussed this decision, any opinion of this U.S. government decision, and whether Iceland will then discuss the declaration of support for Kurda. It's also clear, and I think it's a positive thing, that the backlands of the administrations, at least To some extent, two of them tremble over this report. Among other things, a prominent member of the Independence Party yesterday said by permission of a president: If Trumps's decision in Kuristan indicates how this United States government treats allies, it is best not to cooperate fully with that government. Teamwork in the North should thus be self - obtained. These are large words from one of the main influential members of the Independence Party. I wanted to ask the prime minister if she thinks it is important for a national security council to come together or when they meet next a discussion and review these factors and if they will take up this matter and therefore review all communications with the United States. As the U.S. Foreign Policy today is a threat to democracy, it is a threat to successful Western cooperation that has been in recent years and decades. I also believe that there is a particular threat, a significant threat, to Iceland and to us in the North, how the U.S. environmental policy is conducted. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Will it promote national security? I also wanted her stand on the matter of declaring support to Kurda.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u5	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that this change in U.S. and announced the military action of Turks against the Kurdians in the Syrian territory is very bad news. Both I believe that such measures will have a tremendous impact on citizens, but it is not excluded that such measures can solve the terrorist organizations responsible for reinventing with Islamic countries, but as it is known, it was Syrian Kurds who were in combat with this infamous organization. I remind you that in former stages the Icelandic government has criticized the military action of Tremor against Syria's Kurds, even as it was. conducted directly with the ambassador of Turkey to Iceland a few days after last action began there last January. In addition, the Icelandic government expressed special concern over the state of affairs at the scene of the Atlantic Union following a harsh conflict in the Afrin region. Interestingly, the change in U.S. direction to draw back from the border of Syria has not been discussed at the scene of the Atlantic Community, where it should likely be discussed. I would also like to say that this decision and the war the Turks have proclaimed in northern Syria is one - sided action on their part, and it seems that many alliances were surprised. Hv. A senator asks if this was discussed in the government. No, but I have received information from the State Department. This is the case with the highest degree. The minister of state is traveling in Africa, and I haven't reached him on the phone for this case, but it's going to be recorded at the government scene later this week. And because of what? So a senator specifically asks for national security advice is to answer that I know that I have requested a meeting at the State Department for this reason and I believe it is right to make the meeting as soon as possible. Minister of State arrives home, which will be Thursday, if I have any facts about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u6	Mr. President. I thank the prime minister for the answers. I would like to follow the position of the prime minister in cooperation with the local military structure of the United States. One of her most powerful members, huh? paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjörnsdóttir, says, on their Facebook page, with permission of presidents: However, it is still a reason to remember in all of the discussion that this U.S. government is being driven by this president's accompanimental decision, as if it had nothing to do with security, human life, and to ensure stability in an area that has been divided by the worst war of the last few years in the world. I would appreciate it if I could get the position of the prime minister on this matter and at the same time answer: Does she have complete confidence in the United States to fulfill her commitments as per the defence agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u7	Mr. President. The one standing here is always ready to discuss Iceland's defence agreement with the United States and its stand on the matter. I've come to believe, from conferences here in the Hall, that it's a good idea to start taking such a conversation. And I'd like to use this opportunity to point out the bill anyway. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, of the changes in defense law, which makes it possible that the Council will have a much more effective approach to changing the defence agreement. Of course, it's something I find normal for the General to take sides on at any given time. However, according to the national security policy approved at the Council of 2015-2016, this is one of its cornerstones. The modern structure at Keflavík is based directly on an Annex to the Defense Treaty signed by the Supreme Court. The minister of state who served as a member of the 2013Mr.2016 government and the government as well as the government. In turn, a member of the Parliament wrote out the financial commitments that the Icelandic government has made for building the building up, which was the 2016◯2017 government. As long as national security policy remains and our involvement in the defense agreements, I am behind it as prime minister in this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u8	President. Now it's got the highest. Ministers introduce their innovation policy, describing worthy and important goals and focus to the year 2030. The importance of investing in innovation and giving money to pioneers is discussed in the course. This policy is fine for itself, and I give the highest compliments. Minister for her. So the next decade's policy on where this country is headed for innovation is an enormously important one. But it seems to be opposed to current government policies, and it can be wondered how serious it is when it is addressed with very little attention to the State's direct support of innovation and pioneers, and there is no need for financial support and strength. One of the foremost early procrastinators is the Technologies of Development, which have declined since 2017. Now it is true that under the next year's budget, there is a responsor in the seminary. Yet, based on current funds, the fund can provide only up to a tenth of each project applied for strength, but in 2004, when the fund began work, about one in three such projects were given strength. Technology and software companies are one of the best community investments we can make. They use no resources, they don't pollute, but they create products that can pay many times as far as investment and, in many cases, earn money that are much more valuable to national preparation. President. Recently, Iceland's Business Council shed light on the assessment of the IMD account of the digital competitiveness of countries where Iceland fell by six places, from 21 to 27. The main reason is that Iceland's future services are now considered to be far less efficient. That must be a concern for us. Making taxes is not enough. We must also support pioneers and innovations by direct action. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will a minister ensure that there will be a prosperous innovation environment here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, I am both very happy and proud of the course that has now been evident after a lot of work, including. with the presence of representatives of all members of the council, other stakeholders and pioneers. The work has done a great deal, and we will begin by sharing this policy plan with her, where all the basic thoughts that really matter, are expressed, and we wanted to give her the space that she deserved and the talk she has received that I too welcome. It's very serious, and I'm looking forward to the next weeks and months at the work that lies ahead, including to carry out the action and to promote those who fall under the direction. We've already set the priorities of 13 measures that we're now working on, and I expect to introduce both at the end of October and at the end of November, which may include: published in the financial agenda that the state will place funds for the next five years in a new creation and growth fund. It is a work that is very important. We've looked at the countries that have done this well, to set up a fund like this, so I'll join my head with my head. A senator says it is important to increase the bioavailability of wands to early risk levels. It is really action number one that we will better introduce and are working on and needing a lot of work ahead of us to get started. In recent years, technology fund has grown dramatically and is far different from what it was some years ago, but it is true that it is held on like everyone else. We are also putting, depending on how it is defined, 103/413 billion in innovation and a part of our work ahead of us, to determine exactly what money goes and whether it's all in the right place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u10	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers, and I'm glad to hear that 13 prior measures have been set. It would be nice to know if these procedures have been financed too. You see, that's really important. If so, I would also like to ask, " How many dollars of innovations have it been calculated? ' If, like other nations around us, we went out to calculate that, we might find it easier to get funding for this party. And I'd also like to ask, as I believe it is important that state and city are models when it comes to innovation and innovation, into a new-born state policy, whether the state has plans to experiment in any further political innovation, for example. with this whole idea of innovation. Let's stick to these questions, otherwise I've gone too far. How do we measure the results when we calculate the amount of money in innovation comes back? And then there's the innovation of the government at the administrative level. It would be nice to know the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u11	Mr. President. In order to get where it is first, the overall cost of innovation is to increase in the next budget, but there are other management arrangements that are involved. But only on public and innovation. I wholeheartedly agree with that question. There's a senator coming in. In my mind, the increased use of novelty in the public is not just something that's fun for those who have the solutions or the fun for us to talk about, but that's the basic premise that we can carry on our big, heavy system that we want to carry up for the public to have access to, regardless of income, background, or other factors, that we are also a great increase in innovation in those systems. I simply don't think we can propagate the systems, if you look at biological developments indefinitely, if we continue as the situation is now. You see, innovation is not a lawsuit, because it is everywhere. I frankly admit that it took me some time to figure out what my role was as a Neo - made minister. You can't frame the group of paint into a box and go to surgery and check the boxes, but all of them have to do with the ministry and the job life and the institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u12	A respectable president. I want to ask you why. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A health minister's dramatic questions in itself because at the same time as the social security minister prepares a primary work programme for microevolution, health ministers on the other side are creating a serious risk for individuals needing urine, people struggling with disability and struggling to maintain health to work. Then Iceland's Medical Insurance will put the chair in front of the door and say, "We're experts. We know which area of urine to use. If you're going to use it, you don't have a dog's eye on it, so you're just gonna have to use it, even if it does cause major damage, infection, and the risk of going to the hospital. Where is common sense in this regard? Why are they not spoken to and allowed to choose their own things? These are people who have a job. They're working today and trying to do their job, but they're having trouble getting to work and travel. We're talking less than a million dollars, less than a million dollars. At the same time, we are putting half a billion people on a press committee. We're putting 200 million in RUS, which already has 700 million, but we're saving these people about 1 million. How can you think of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Iceland's health insurance is taking this part of the ministry, i.e. Decisions about buying individual tools do not come to the health secretary's table if it were an impervious road. On the other hand, I've got a few tips from the partners as well. A senator refers to individuals who have made comments to the purchases that they have conducted there. I have directed the indications and comments to Iceland's Medical Insurance and I have requested that they be listened to the indications that have been presented, and I expect that they will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u14	A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister, Svavarsdóttir: Isn't Iceland's health insurance under her control? If so, are they not also under her control, for example? The payment of a child with a broken lip that goes to dentists but gets nothing now and is also denied? Is Iceland's Medical Insurance Any state that can only do what they want? They must be following our laws, and then the law from us must be so stupid that it just needs to be reimbursed completely. We cannot act this way toward these people. We're talking about children who can't see them. We're talking about disabled people in wheelchairs. How on earth are we going to blame Iceland's health insurance for this? Either it's the health minister responsible for Iceland's health insurance or we're here responsible for it, making sure these people get a service of themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u15	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, Iceland's Medical Insurance Agency is part of the Commission that is in the hands of a health minister at any given time and is assigned a role in the law. It is clear that the service provided by Iceland's Medical Insurance is such a service, the Agency has services to sensitive groups. There are situations where there is reason to make comments. Iceland's health insurance will take those notes and answer them. The Agency complies on the laws and regulations we establish, i.e. A law established by the General and then by the Minister's regulations at any given time. If we find out there's shards, we'll try to improve better, and I'm on this project as health minister to do my best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u16	President. There were some major developments in the government's talks on remunerations of state officials, when large groups of government employees decided to dismiss their dispute with the State to their state. I have come to realize that since spring there was little or no movement on these talks. I have also been told that after a summer break, there was to be a discussion again, i.e. Government representatives, came to a game exactly the same offer that had already been badly received in spring. This suggests that one of the main requirements for this employee enterprise is abbreviated week of work. With President's permission, I'd like to read a little bit of text, which is like: ▪ A branch meeting of the left movement ▪ green supply, held on 12,◯13. On October 2018, the workweek will be reduced to 30 hours. A conference encourages labor movement and senators left green in order to support any action to that end. Now I'd like to ask the chairman of the left green, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, if she agrees with the stiffness that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter employs the employee body of public employees in this matter. The wise chairman of the left green makes up a conversation with the highest level. Can contracts be reached by the prime minister of this case? As you know, other collective agreements have flashed up, and the situation in these discussions does not give you an optimistic view of the fact that collective labour agreements are being held. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on what she intends to do about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u17	Mr. President. I've watched the situation in the state's dress-up business with government officials, and I'd like to begin by saying that I think there's enough stuff to make it possible to get together. But I'm not going to move my dress talks into the Senate Hall. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator agrees with me that he is not the right place to have such discussions. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned what has to do with working time. First, I would like to say that the biographer contract signed in spring made in a general labour market included some changes in reduced working time that I hope will make this community that we both live in family life and human life. I know that the union unions of public employees, especially BSRBs, have given high priority on the basis of the knowledge and experience that has been created by the existing and emerging experimental projects and has emerged from government and BSRB agreements. Of course, I believe it is normal to continue to be based on the source of knowledge that was formed there. I also think that all of us are very aware that government agreements, whether with BSRB or with academics, who have not been exactly the same demands as BSRB, will be in line with the collective agreements made earlier this year. I have emphasized that it is important to bring a labour market in Iceland closer to what is common in other countries in the North, and I am not from the fact that several members of this hall, on the contrary, agree with me. Part of the culture is that there is a agreement between the general market and the public market. [[The president calls.]] We're certainly not as far as the North countries are concerned, but I hope we can go there, and I believe the biographies were the first step in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u18	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for these answers, and I would like to reread from the results of the category meeting of the left movement, not by day, by permission of the president. It says: ▪ Intensification of life after abbreviated work week may also result in fewer burns in the job, non-cooperative activities, and the need for welfare services. And then again, with president's permission: ▪ A more stable workweek contributes to quality of life, satisfaction, and added family ties over money, as well as to the imaginary interests that some employers feel are going through for the longest weeks of work. So I want to reiterate at the highest. Prime Minister whether she intends to use her influence so that the fine suggestions I read will be guided by these talks and that the State will not be one of the employers who feel that they are benefiting from keeping the workweek as long as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u19	Mr. President. First and foremost, I come up here to say that I think that I and all of us at the council are quite clear the importance of the classes that concern our welfare system and all other systems. Since these classes have an enormously important function, it is important that collective agreements be reached by employees on public markets. However, I remember that moment. The members of the Central Party did not have a particularly optimistic view that government traffic would do well in their lifetime contracts. They did not prove to be very truthful there, and I suggest that they do. Generals give them the opportunity to continue working on these matters at the state line where they live and that, as I said earlier, we are working on it, we are moving the Icelandic labour market further towards what happens elsewhere in the North countries where we see much more stability around collective agreements. I think we're supposed to be heading there, and there's also the Generals who can do their part in the big lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u20	Mr. President. As we noted earlier, the government's and BSBR campaigns have now come out of nowhere. It is well expressed by the government's view of these key classes of government. In fact, the director of the BSRB said that this showed that the State had not been in a heart - to - heart bargain situation. That's a lot of words. BSBA has over 3 tens of thousands of public employees, two thirds of whom are women. So these are cold greetings to large groups of women from the government of the Independence Party, led by Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The minds of this government to the members of the state are also well expressed in a recent financial bill, a black and white bill that is expected only to raise 3% of government employees, and this discussion is certainly appropriate in a council hall. At the same time, reports of extraordinary pay increases in the head of the state that in some cases are of only 40±80% in two years. This is what happens on the watch of the prime minister. Mr. President. How is it that a minister is expected to raise the salary of the governor 40-80% at the same time as medical staff, firemen, nurses, midwives, police and teachers should receive 3% raise? Why is it that the prime minister is on a bill that assumes a fallout in public employees? According to the financial bill of the same minister, more than 3% of inflation is expected. I'm saying, Mr. President, it's not an acceptable answer if a minister comes here later and says she may feel abnormal, but she just can't do anything about it. Governments are responsible for the responsibility of the entire government, as well as the government and the Ministry, i.e. The Ministers, in effect, asked comments on the last raise of the presidents, which made them even higher. The financial bill is indeed responsible for the prime minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising a number of questions and including the answers he does not want, so it may take time to review these questions. First of all, "wow." A senator told me that I was behind the increase in the salary of the governor. I just want less of it. The senator noted that this was for a recommendation of the highest order. A minister of finance, who happens to be in the government with me, said that the bank manager of the Bank and Bank of Iceland was reduced from what had been determined before, after the bank council in those banks had decided to ignore the last statement given. Secretary of finance on the same issues, just so I can keep things straight. Therefore, let us not give it to ourselves, as it were. A senator makes it here, that the will of politicians, not only of my party, but also of other categories, has not been clear through this recommendation and turned to shrinks, at least ... withsomepresidents. Then I'd like to talk only about the budget bill as a matter of course. Whether we are talking about the health, social, or educational system, a senator has discussed a considerable detail in speech and literature, one of the budgets of this government. It is true that the increase is more dramatic than the first financial bill of the government that had to be turned around. But we have continued on this course, so that all talk about it on the part of our neighbors. A senator says we're undermined by the public system doesn't have an opinion, just to say so here. But when we come to the actual subject of the inquiry, which is a collective agreement, I would like to reiterate that the discussion has not been terminated, but one of the things that happened. A senator was told that a discussion had been terminated. Pointing talks to state states does not mean that our hearts have been cut off. It's definitely not the same thing. In reality, although the talks have reached this stage, they have reached state lines, I intend to maintain that under its good leadership, these people will find practical solutions to reasonable agreements, as we have seen before in this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u22	Mr. President. I think it's the best. Ministers again proclaim inaction during the overpaying development of the governor. Since then, the bank's bank manager's pay has increased by 82%, with other heads of state I'm talking about a 63% raise in pay, a 67% raise in pay, a 43% raise in pay, a 56% increase in salary. These are government presidents' pay raise. There is no use in speaking and speaking as if there were some sort of self - control that is not relevant to the minister. I think it crystals in this discussion of what interests will be listed above. We have a government that feels perfectly normal that the capital tax is the lowest in Iceland of all the North countries. We have a government that feels perfectly normal that the amount of hunting fees, since this government began to rule, has dropped by 40%. Here we have a government that feels perfectly normal that the 5% richest of the population has a number of clean possessions similar to the other 95%. I'm calling for measures to correct the inequities and at the same time, this Minister comes with a financial bill where only 3% increase is expected by government officials. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How can this be in accordance with the highest visit? Minister, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u23	Mr. President. Hv. A senator must listen to what he is told. I went over it earlier to the highest. The secretary of finance sent a recommendation to the management of the banks, the bank councils, and first, the paid development of the bank council. How can it be? A senator accused those standing here and the current government of inactivity when it is just this government that is taking action at the pay of the governor, when it is this government that took the prior step that no one had dared take, putting down the advice of men, and linking the highest government's salary with pay development in the public market to prevent pay, when it is this government that introduces the three-stage tax system where the paces of the same non-combatal factors were not done in 2009-03/2013 when I was in the government with a series of government. The senator when the pay points were different, so that the high-priority team gains the most in pay and not in low income groups? How can it be? A senator spoke in a way that he does when there is just no opinion? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u24	A respectable president. I want to direct the lights to the equation of electrical expenses. The country's energy resources are owned by landowners, the state is the largest owner, followed by rural areas and other landowners. The transport system of electricity is in the national partnership, but the country is not at the same level when it comes to transporting electricity into its own country. It depends on where they live. There are two registrations in the country to transport electricity, i.e. rural and urban prices. The emissions of electricity have increased more than urban areas in recent years, and it is apparent that the current equation costs are well beyond recovery. It's about time for the cost. A quarter higher in rural areas despite the equation costs, and the explanation for rising costs of electricity distribution is that rural companies decrease electricity and investment needs and renewable needs are larger in rural areas than urban areas, as well as electrical initiatives. There are always fewer and fewer people who pay for it. This results in an increased difference between urban and rural prices. But where are the infrastructures of electricity and manpower, right in the rural area? In current development programmes, projects fall to three top targets: equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. Under each objective, the number of projects, including projects that contribute to the increased energy costs in rural areas and urban areas, falls. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Where does the equation of energy costs work according to a policy-makers' policy plan and which way to count the highest. A minister of the best means to fully balance energy costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. The first to mention this is the cost of transport, certainly the same for all the people of the country, but the distribution certainly does not. The annual budget set for 2015 was sufficient to cover distribution costs but not at all, only about Half the equation today returns about 980 million. K. In a year and according to the analyses we've been working on, it would take double what we're doing today to achieve the full equation. I've previously said that I thought it was quite possible to simply raise this price, that it would be a slight increase in the majority, but would be a significant decrease by some in the country. I have also said that after a very misleading discussion about the third energy package, I would not suggest it because what its opponents said was that electrical prices would go up. Then I'm not going to make a courageous, home-made political decision to level the cost of electricity that would slightly increase power prices for most people to balance the costs of the event and say, "See now, the power prices have been raised - but it would not have been out of discussion about the third energy package, it would have been for a decision we would have made. Other ways that have been considered are to have just one currency, not a rural bill, and a urban account. Or you can put simply on budgets or possibly some sort of accounting change within the companies you own, the public hosts that are quite many. We've already had that job at the Ministry in cooperation with the Power Institute and other parties, and I hope we can achieve it. To me, this is a great deal of justice. It's the resource of everyone's people, the electricity comes out of the country, and to me it's reasonable to settle this situation of the country, that the cost of distribution is equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u26	A respectable president. I'm going to draw up one point from my first speech, which is the granting of the public system and leads to it. At expense, I aim to focus my attention on minor activations, which are less than 10 MWs. In recent years, there have been many benefits. This is where environmental energy flows, and there is a low nature disorder. They connect with the network of the country's distribution hosts, thus strengthening transport routes, reducing loss of transport, and cost of operating, some of which mean that. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister if he sees a possibility of increasing the mobilization system, this would lead to a reduction in rural distribution costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u27	Mr. President. I believe there is a chance of reducing emissions of microintendents. Also, there is a procedure to be made. Of course, the system we have today is a work of men and not necessarily a perfect system of things. With adjustments and initiatives, we could unleash certain forces in that situation and change the practicalness of microinducers. This has been a significant factor in the small workings of the past miseries, and their benefits have been detected. However, something makes it a point that there is no such structure at present, and perhaps there is something involved in the principle that makes it work. It is now only next week's Energy Agency seminar and possibly more people who will try to map it even more because it's both stock and can make a difference for the system as a whole, increase its efficiency and trust it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u28	President. I'd like to start with a little philosophical debate about the economy. In a simple form, the economy must be just people and the ideas they get. Economics are the product of thinking and ideas that have evolved through time. Our ideas about survival have changed dramatically, they were once based on fishing and collecting, and then the agriculture, industry, and finally the modern Chipmunks. These are all different methods of organizing community institutions and cultures based on knowledge and understanding at any given time, especially our knowledge and understanding of e.g. Human behavior. The current economic system is, among other things, Based on the ideas that human beings behave in a perfectly predictable way and only work to achieve their own potential and satisfaction, the so - called homo economicus, by permission of a president, excuse the Latin sludge. Thus, more than being a group of individuals who want only to achieve their own happiness, society is of little importance. This economic system is designed to promote endless growth. Thus, consumption is an independent and justifiable goal, and the value of individuals is defined by how much they can produce and how much they can consume. In any case, it is the reality as he sees me and many others who have come to mind that we need to rethink our economy from the very foundation and the ideologies behind it. All the information I mention is based on a highly out - of - date view of human behavior and, as a result, is causing tremendous damage. When it comes to such thinking, equality and justice are usually at the expense of economic growth. We constantly seek to set laws, rules, and agreements that ensure some kind of minimally balanced, but the requirement for the economy for growth is really the power that controls everything. When it comes to consumption and growth, but not equal and prosperity, the consequences often become poverty, as we see in today's world, worsening health, physical and mental health, increased addiction, and serious environmental damage, with unforeseen consequences, which claim to be the climate crisis that mankind faces, one is most likely to be the responsibility of this economic system, which has brought on growth and consumption above all else. President. In our understanding of human behavior, there has been a revolution during recent decades. Humans and I may tend to be selfish and self - interest drive, yes, but on the basis we are group animals, we are social creatures, and we are mutual, cooperative, and self - sacrificing, in fact, are natural. Drinking and greed are not natural inducers. It's learned behavior. Growth should be based on how we work together. We can create systems that work together, thus enabling us to solve complex problems, but to do so, we need to ensure reasonableness and a greater sense of compassion. Thus we build trust in society and promote cooperation and sustainable growth based on community cohesion. Now we've got what. I'm sure the members of the council heard me give this talk more often, and it is my heart's concern, mainly because the necessary changes needed to be taken into consideration have been a long time in life. During the past few weeks, the proposals for quality of life and prosperity criteria were only broken. There were 39 standards that the committee considered to have a realistic view of prosperity and quality of life in this country. What a joy it is, and I have a relatively optimistic view that there are some real changes to come! I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers where Iceland will stand when it comes to measuring these 39 indicators and what steps the Minister will take to ensure that we can gain a perspective on these key aspects of prosperity in Iceland. The way we do this, how we measure it, and how the suggestions on quality of life and prosperity match the success goals of OECD, and how ministers plan to achieve success when compared with neighboring countries in achieving goals for improving prosperity. Then there are the standards and actions of others, and as a result, it is also important to get answers to what changes are necessary to make in the affairs of the government and in the economy everything to be removed from the present arrangement, with overemphasis placed on economic growth and GDP, and instead of on the increase in quality of life and prosperity, saying: What manager is going to do in order to ensure these changes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for starting this important discussion on the scene of the Generals. Work presented at a conference has been held. A senator referred to, working on a measure of prosperity and quality of life, and gave the committee a suggestion that 39 measures at the beginning of the last month and published this report in connection with that. As a result, a conference was held by the Presidency and Financial Ministry in cooperation with OECD and the Scottish government that was introduced to the work. I've said that I think this work is important to me for at least Two, and I'll agree with the third as good as the third. A senator mentioned in his talk. What I have said is that the major challenges we face in our communities, the climate threat, the aging of nations, and technological changes, call for a review of how we view the public and its affairs, how we are going to meet these challenges, especially the environmental challenges, but also a completely different society when it comes to technological changes, for example, and the aging of the nation that calls for new thought and new solutions to our welfare. Then there's number two. Of course, the natural goal is that we work to increase the happiness of people, who are often embarrassed by politicians, and we discussed it at that conference. This is somehow so closely related to dollars and money and economics, but of course it is closely linked to dollars and money and economics, since happiness is also based on security, on prosperity, and on prosperity. Third, that's what we're talking about. A senator mentioned in his philosophical introductions, the trust in society institutions. I have no doubt that this review of how we plan and set our priorities in public business can lead to greater trust. I think this connection simply better with what people really need in life, and they can build trust. So I agree with that view as a question. A senator threw out here. To answer questions. A senator - she asks where Iceland works when it comes to the measurement of these 39 gauges and the next step. These criteria provide perspective on key aspects of prosperity. They will be illuminating for government policies and will be divided into three aspects, social, economic, and environmental factors of 13 subsets. As appropriate, they are comparable to those of other countries and international institutions such as Eurostat and OECD. It is largely based on public statistics that are developed according to established methods, and it answers the question of whether these are comparative standards for other countries. The largest part can be found in OECD and Eurostat, which makes it easier to compare all the ways of Iceland. However, particular attention is needed to improve the development of work with specific environmental factors and social factors in these indicators. Then they ask why. A senator for the next step, but they are actually on the verge of identifying the situation. Is there a need for more work somewhere? It is pointed out to the committee that we need to do better in some measure. But the next step I believe should be related to public financial organization. We presented our idea that the next financial plan will be based on these new indicators. We are now in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to consider how prior financial programmes worked on the prosperity measures covered by these 39 standards. Similarly, we will examine the public's emphasis, as reflected in the poll made by the committee. There people were asked specifically what they considered most important for society and the importance for their own quality of life. It was of interest to note that health and health came to the top, but there were different results as the list went down. We need to make sure that we keep working, that we are not somehow picking up the bike, for then the project will be all too heavy, but will continue to work on the action and emphasis where we stand well. But we especially need to examine where we are on our own, whether in international comparison or not, and much of what these 39 standards are to measure far beyond what governments can do. So we need more members at the table, and the labor movement has already shown this great interest and is meeting with our experts on how we can proceed with this matter. Most important, we will also keep an eye on what other nations are doing, and I will remind them of our cooperation with New Zealand and Scotland on prosperity. One small step was taken in New York during the days of a climate operation meeting in which representatives of New Zealand, Iceland, Norway, Fiji, and Costa Rica decided to begin working on a climate - related vacation agreement. That is an example of how we can really have free business in ways that we have not so far. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I can't go any further, even though I could talk about these matters anymore. But there I think we have a very good foundation to continue, and we are already working on the introduction of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u30	Mr. President. I thank you for this opportunity to open up about a so - called prosperity economy that is from my point of view a new word for something that we like to pursue, that, as most people are comfortable in any way they look. But I'm not sure that I fully understand this discussion. Of course, we should not object to looking at things from a new perspective. To evaluate whether we are living in a prosperous world, many standards are set out that measure various aspects, social, economic, and environmental factors, in order to shed light on the prosperity that exists among us. There is no question that if people have adequate knife and spoons, they will feel better than if they have to count every cent to be non - half - hungry forever. It can also be understood that keeping them social, social, and community members in close association increases well - being as compared with isolation in loneliness. It can also help you to imagine that the person who gets into the unscrupulous nature from time to time will feel more comfortable than the one staying in the midst of a multitude of wastes and even the health damage of an environment. To the top. A minister is the question of how he intends to disappear from the present arrangement, where excessive emphasis is placed on economic growth and production, while the emphasis is more important to improving quality of life and overall prosperity. This is a basic question, Mr. President: How can you improve your quality of life without the key factors mentioned? Is that really possible? A final and clear answer to this question would be of great value. Some would say that it is not both possible to have and to eat the cake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for bringing up the matter and the highest. Minister for her answers. I had the privilege of sharing in the group that suggested this standard and continued work, and I must say that it is by the more interesting work I have been doing as a member of the body. It was an interesting, respectable president, to examine what other countries are doing in that regard, and I can assure you of this. The U.S. Senate says that we could have several hundred standards if we were to change them, for as soon as we get to the point, there are some questions that arise. In the end, however, for this to produce some results and to be a real set of standards as we see it, it is of course important to keep separate. As everyone here knows, 39 standards were proposed. It is also true, as stated in the case of prime minister, that we came to realize that there is a lack of considerable data, especially when it comes to the environmental issues and matters related to social wealth. Then, in our conclusions, we say that governments are willing to take sides in the way they use the standards of policy. I may have wanted to come on to that, a respectable president, that we see in the report this way, and we'll see where we're going up and where we're going and where we're standing. It is now that in Iceland we are in great luxury in all international comparisons, more or less, so when we compare ourselves with foreign countries, we are probably very well. It's a good thing to remind you of that, because sometimes when you listen to the conversation at the Hall, it's like it's up to the fire and the jokes, but it's not. It does not change our constantly working on further developments, so it is one thing to look at international standards and another to look at where we are looking at them. Of course, we should always set a higher standard. We should always remember that there is even greater prosperity and quality of life for Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager to open up this discussion about the economy. It was a pleasure to witness to a conference in Iceland's University on this matter and to thank the government for this work. How important it is for us to have some measurements of how we are doing! What a blessing it is for us to also get the position on the factors that are now taken, not directly to direct money, but to many other factors! We're doing a pretty good job, and our averages are pretty good. Still, we do not eat percentages as we have talked about here so often, and we do not live on the average. Rather, we need to seize those who really need it. It is our assignment here, so we must also be careful not to get caught in the average but to see exactly where people, individuals, women, men, and children are falling apart. We must start focusing on them during the discussion, just trying to raise the debate over averages and economys, looking at the individuals behind the ratings, the individuals who do not have knives and spoons, the individuals who do not have equal opportunities, children who live in very poor and not in security, for example. We've been over this in this room a dozen times, but I still think we can't make any money, but we have to look at the people ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for bringing up the subject of this great and supreme case. Prime Minister for her input. As noted, the objective of this government was to set up a transnational group in agreement with the Ministry of Education for the Development of Economics and Quality of Life. These are international discussions about better understanding of prosperity, prosperity, and social progress. It is natural that we begin to focus on other factors when it comes to a measure of prosperity and quality of life. An increasing international discussion on what really affects people's lives and not just state funds rancoring and taking an active part in Iceland can be noted. Along with this work, the Department of Social Affairs, which has been led by shock, has been a member of the task force. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevard's log, did a good job on the children's affairs. A respectable president. The children are the future. On the other hand, the one listed here is the most important measure of well - being for children. I call attention to the cooperation of social and child - care committees, Kopavogstown, Kara Connect and UNICEF on a new information system, a so - called table on the well - being of children, based largely on the foundation of the children's contract, on equality, on the child's best, the right to live and develop, and the right of a child to express himself. We have lacked this instrument in our country, for when serious or serious facts arise, such as. that 16% of all children live in violence, we have no meter to deal with it. Rather, we try to take some action, but we may be as close as we can because we cannot measure how they work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u34	Mr. President. I would like to discuss the use of data relating to quality of life and prosperity. A recent book, Invisible Women: Explosion Data Bias in a World Designed for Men, written by British journalist Caroline Criado Perez, describes hollow data, data making it possible for a world in which men and women make equal design has been designed with men as a measure for the public. Such data can have very serious consequences, especially when it comes to the health system where the cases show that women die due to a lack of information on the effects of disease and drugs on them. This book is based on extensive research work and is registered in over a quarter of the length of the book. Many examples include, for example. the temperature at the standard office is normally 5°C lower than what is usually comfortable for women. Average telephone numbers are considerably too large for women. In most cases, a job dress is designed for a man's body, which means that it is both unpleasant to women and may even be dangerous. You may remember that in the news. It was reported that a turning point was to be an event that was to be the first space march in history, where only women were involved. You see, there was only one costume for women, but they wanted to be two. The book on the Invisible Women is divided into chapters about everyday life, workplace, transportation and environment design, health systems, and government. Nicola Sturgeon, Prime Minister of Scotland, has specifically recommended the book for people who work in policy-makers and make decisions for all the public, so I want to use this opportunity and encourage the highest power. The prime minister to listen and not rely on hollow data while living up to the quality of life of the Icelandic nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this discussion and also the highest. Prime Minister for participating in it. We will discuss 39 stages of prosperity and quality of life. When I first saw a prosperous economy, I thought, " Why are we there? ' Why don't we start off with the list of losers before we start talking about prosperity? Should we not set 39 - level goals to spend it? We could, for example. start to ask us why 50% of the employees have 420,000 bucks. or less on income. Why are there micromasks who don't have enough to eat? Why are there older citizens who may have one maltdo or less in the fridge? Why on earth do many children live in poverty? I can't understand that we're once again with some really nice and cool goals, and we're going to be in cooperation with Scots and New Zealanders and other countries for the goals we're going to have, but at the same time, we're not going to accept the goals that we're going to see, as we were talking about in unpublished inquirys of the day, where the goal has been to harm people. We're saving the money and throwing the dollar away. We can work hard to harm people less than 1 billion. K. At the same time we came up here and talked about the welfare economy in 39 steps. We're starting backwards, one more time. Let's start with the other end, set up 39 steps on how we're going to wipe out all the shit in Iceland and I'll join them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u36	A respectable president. I can agree with a few members of the council here, we can't over deck ourselves with averages. We need to examine the distribution of all the numbers and indicators we make. You see, it's important that there are not some outlaws who have much higher income that attracts the average and that they present us with a very ostentatious picture of what's going on here. The dividing of the economy into this wide range of values, not just this one nonexistent cookie, which is just a lie, gets much closer because we know and can look into what is to be noticed and is not doing well. You can see it, for example. The data published in the report that balance between work and personal, work time, is extremely bad here in Iceland. This has often been observed in the discussions here at the council and is the core of Pirata's short work week. It also shows the difference between the proportion of men working long weeks at work and women. It also says much about the unsalaried period of work that women do, those in homes or other places that are also known there. In the measure we receive from OECD, it is found that women have less leisure time than men do in spite of working much shorter hours. That's because they're out of work. Such data are very much helping us to choose the right actions, and this is a key that fits perfectly into the laws on government public finance and goals drive and measurable policy, to be more specific so that the limited money we have returned to the right places, but not just to increase profits in economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u37	A respectable president. This discussion and this report are part of changes taking place worldwide for improvement. It's not always that you're standing in this room and you can say it. For all too long, people in our position, political people, were focusing on a way too simple to fit society's quality. This was the economic product or economy, but land production is not about society's quality but about quantity. It is in its most basic form a measure of consumption. From that consumption, pollution and greed lead to resources, and this economicism is revealed in its most extreme form of disaster. But now we hope to see a better time when a number of countries and even the most conservative international institutions are taking up their arms of this broad range of policy measures. We have 39 standards that run a wide range of Icelandic society, but it is obvious how many of the people's situation can be linked to having difficulty getting together, which could quite be called the shadows side of the consumer society. I mention, for example. Working long weeks at work, unorthodox hours, refusing medical care. It's all taken up here because in good society, they're good too. The lack of information was prominent in what areas. There was a lack of information on the environment and society's social services. You see, the values of a community sometimes appear in what they choose to watch and measure. [[The president calls.]] So it says a story about what is most missing. These standards were lacking for real prosperity and quality of life in this country, but they have now been pointed out, and they are hopefully improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate the starter of this discussion. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, and Prime Minister for speaking. When we consider broad issues such as this, we may look at the 39 - scale report, the danger may be two: first, we have superficial roots and second, that we speak and speak and do nothing. The point is, we need to realize that despite the limit that economic growth is the basis for quality of life, money is the force of everything. We cannot overlook that. I cut down here by three points of this 39th degree of health, security, and education. We have a waiting list in the health system that greatly impairs the health of people of all ages. It affects the security of people, especially those who have an absolute advantage. It also says that, because we've been talking about children, that education in Iceland is not as amazing as we've been saying for a long time. Iceland's education system is very flawed. I think that what we do best to achieve the goals mentioned here is that we limit the profit we can achieve without even further affecting the environment. Then I'll give you more processing, fine work, fourth economy, i.e. The technology. All of this is required in the way that we can start approaching the 39 points mentioned here. [[The president calls.]] If we do not do this in a specific way, those words will just be empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u39	A respectable president. As I said earlier, I shared in the work of this group. In that work, a number of interesting things were found. I think it's so important that we can use these standards in our budgets and jobs here, but this is not so that we stop measuring land production or that economic growth is no longer a measure. It is still very important, but just looking at it alone is not enough. That's why it's called, by permission of the highest power. President, ▪beyond GDP in English, above the rate of economic growth and national production. I think it would also be very good if we could use this device so that we could always dig deeper and see them exactly, as has been mentioned, between sexes, where children stand, even if you could watch parts of the country. There may be other developments in some part of the country than in the capital area. If we can use this instrument in that way, I think we could improve the welfare of Icelandic society. I'd also like to mention what I've mentioned in the previous talk, what I thought was amazing to see that the lives of Icelanders in good health have changed considerably since collapse. In this way, women actually lost two years in good health, while men gained two and a half years in good health from collapse. This calls for further digging, and we must examine both our health and our welfare systems, as well as our spiritual health, in which women's spiritual health at a certain age is very relaxed compared to what we compare with where we live elsewhere, or a decrease in the proportion of waste that goes to recycling. Why is it that during the period of environmental revolution, the proportion of waste that goes to recycling declines? All of these are the standards that we need to dig deeper into and hopefully use to build an even greater society in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u40	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic and that it is not. Parliaments use terms if they feel that they need to use foreign terms. The President has more tolerance for Latin scholarship, as was earlier when he was named Homo economicus.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u41	Mr. President. Thank you for your important discussion. The material of this report, a measure of prosperity and quality of life, is a cause for joy. It is quite remarkable how long society has soared, made a great deal of prosperity, and used most of its most simply in the raw, simple features such as economic, gross domestic product, or size of the economy, and has been constantly required for growth, economic growth, greater and more economic growth as without any tomorrow. It takes much more to pursue and search for real well - being. For a long time, little opportunities have been made by established instruments to coordinate how people feel about health, housing, how people are connected with others, about leisure activities, family interests, and the well - being of society. These are all factors that make a difference whether a community is considered to be a rock 'n' roll, self-saturated, yes, sustainable. The scale we're talking about here is exactly what the UN's global aims on sustainable development, on sustainability. Three major factors are based on social, economic, and environmental factors and a number of subtypes. Thus, communities cannot be considered strong and sustainable unless they are all strong. If you let it alone, the system will collapse. We know this from intense experience in urban and industrial development in this country over the last few decades. Marine areas were badly affected by legislation on the control of fish fish. It claims that the economic goals have been achieved, as well as the environmental by commercial use in the fishing industry. But the third important support, social, had to give in, mostly because of the weight of mammon. The result was dramatic; employment and knowledge lost, an established structure almost ruined, employment facilities, and real estates became worthless. This was a goal for sustainability, prosperity, and quality of life. [[The president calls.]] Do not let that happen again. We will not turn our time back but will be able to use this as a warning example. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This discussion of the prosperity system and the quality of life and the quality of life that lies before him was discussed by Halldóra Mogensen. I agree that it is important to measure non-terrestrial factors when considering national prosperity and quality of life, although a approach does not preclude setting such quality of life in the context of classical economic standards such as land production and economic growth. It must always be true that they become policy management tools, and we put them in context of what history they should tell us and provide strong evidence of success or success, allowing us to compare ourselves with other nations on the way of improving our community, whether economic, social, or, as the highest. The prime minister went over, meeting such challenges as in climate and environment, and other factors or decisions that affect our everyday lives. Such use is very effective in the policy-making environment of public funds and is generally discussed in the field. The budget board, especially in a conversation with the Ministry, that we value measures at the 35 topic areas and over 100 seminars with measures that enable us to assess a much more efficient extent than we are being brought to work today on the budget and budgets to assess the effectiveness and benefits of action. There must be a key concept, whether that applies to our daily lives or only to our government's affairs itself, where we look at the constant physical growth of the figures of dollars. I welcome the highest. The prime minister went over the next steps and to introduce or link the standards of public financial matters to the organization and immediately look to the next national budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen needed this talk about the prosperity economy in Iceland. It could also be said: "Thank you for 39 standards that will measure their prosperity. We in Floki's people have often talked about failure because the target group that we have particularly formed is those who are locked up in the community and who are in pain. I also wanted to see, although there were only five standards of it here and now, how we could, for example. End poverty. We've seen that it's beginning to decorate and prepare Christmas in Costco a long time ago, only in time has been taken. I also know that now there are thousands of Icelanders in the community who are anxious about Christmas. I also know that we eat neither crowns nor percentages, and when it's said how much we cut and that we're one of the world's most successful nations what is meant to be prosperous, we can't overlook the fact that although we're always clean with averages that still stand a large part of society palaces. In Iceland, prosperity is especially built around a certain prosperous group. The others may continue to cast death out of its shell. But it would be extremely enjoyable, more dignified president, if we had these standards that would be especially designed to allow all Icelanders to participate in the prosperity that we so easily can prepare for all the people of the country if we choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u44	President. I have to say, for almost an hour now, I think it's pretty brilliant to have had a conversation here in the Hall that economic growth is not the beginning and the end of everything that is important in society. This is one of those days I really like being a senator. I think it's important to share it with you. I think this has been a very helpful discussion, and I think it's important that, as I understand it, it's extremely important to eliminate poverty and eliminate the pitfall that we gather the right data. This is about how we deal with Kingdom interests, how we distribute money. It must be based on good data. As the situation is now, we are finally facing up to the fact that we have not collected these data. We haven't been measuring right things. That's a bit of a reason for the discrepancy we see in the community. It turns to tackle the real root of the problem. That is why it is so awesome, and why it is so important that we do the right thing, and therefore the prime minister has much commendation and honor, divorced and encouraged to continue working on this matter and to do it well. I agree deeply with what I have to say. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson about the hollow data, that's a very important case. I encourage the Minister to take a good look at it. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson speaks of a world designed for men to measure them. This certainly is true and is appropriate for health care. I'm running out of time. It has been said that when drugs are being developed, men were used as a metering instrument, and as a result, women were responding very badly to medication, and not knowing why. It has been shown that these medicines have a completely different body effect than that of men. It has just never been thought of or examined in any way, so it is of utmost importance that we keep this in mind. Maybe I'll ask the highest. Ministers at the end of it whether it is, in view of the fact that there is going to be prosperity and to a sad state, perhaps open to our calling it just a happy economy. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a little pretty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u45	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. The adulation and the other whatnot. Councilmen for your participation. I'll cut it out of the debate at what point. According to members of Congress, it was good to have standards, but we would have to have some meaning behind those standards. I say, if we don't measure the input, it's harder to talk about where we want to go. In my time as prime minister, I have stressed that data and information should be the basis for the decisions we make. That's why we opened up e.g. ... because it really is important to see how disposition income has developed. It contained very interesting data on the income of young people who are not constantly being discussed here in this room, but the data showed that this group has subsided. That's why I think the standards are important. After all, they are not about themselves; they are not about the numbers; nor are they about the percentages we are not eating; they are about the people behind the standards. Hence, it is also important that they differ, and although national production is one of the indicators, as well as the economic growth, it is important to see how the nation values their spiritual health, e.g. What would be life expectancy for good health, as was the case with the daughter of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir earlier. What does the campaign program tell us about society? What about the balance between work and personal life such as Yeah. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson made the subject and balance because the long weeks of work appear to be typical in Iceland? I don't think we're starting on the wrong end. On the other hand, we're supposed to be working fast. These points are now in the government's consultations. These are not particularly high standards in comparison with those of other nations. One idea I heard when I was swimming the other day was if I didn't have to be some measure of how much food is produced in Iceland and how much imported and actual numbers about eating in Iceland where we've been carrying on our community numbers outside. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to say that I'm pretty sure of what happened. þm. Hanna Katrín's son, the temperature at the Assembly Hall, is not designed for women, so maybe it was the highest. President to review this along the way as he discussed holes data. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u46	The President assures the highest. Prime Minister, this will be done in stitches. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u47	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for coming here to discuss land and land estates and thus possible ways to influence possession, land use, and value of land. Land is a resource, land itself, soil and vegetation that thrives there. Less than a year ago, I had a language place here at the highest level. Marine and agricultural secretary for the possession of farms and the possible limitations of this, in accordance with the provision of farm and land shapes. This discussion was followed by the development of a staff review of farm property proposals and reports. The Ministry continued to set up work on behalf of the Ministry of Presidency. In May. I then discussed the position of that job at the top. While I must admit that I have been disappointed by the fact that we are not seeing the results of our work here at the General Assembly. I am aware, though, that the work is being done, and it is welcome to have this opportunity to discuss her progress at the Senate Hall for more information. So I would like to ask you, what is the standard of the Ministry of Presidency for making clearer laws for soil and land trades? Is the work being done under the surface and housing laws or will there be more operations and tasks? As it is known, I, along with the Council of Progress, have submitted a synonym to the legislation and regulations for the disposition and use of resources on land, as well as measures to support the continuation of such rules. The plan of action is aimed at ensuring the possession of citizens of the land on earth, i.e. resources in Iceland, as well as providing further opportunities for entire areas of rural areas and a broad range of sustainable agriculture and food production in the country. The proposal includes seven projects and measures that all are expected to improve the affairs of the country, as there is no single magic solution to correct the setting. If you are to succeed, then you must form a whole body. The task is: 1st A law will be established that a defined relationship with Iceland is essential to the possession of land on land and the limitations of the number of soils owned by the same people. It seems that there has been a longer period of open-label purchases in this country than Iceland's commitments as agreed by the EEA Convention. Although the EEA Convention is intended to ensure individual and legal rights, it also allows governments to limit their rights. Possession of property is permitted to be limited by law and without obligation based on defined goals based on the public interest. This applies to the aim of ensuring an organization of specific areas, agriculture and agriculture, living in certain areas throughout the year, environmental protection and protection of specific cultures. Examples of such rules can be drawn from neighboring countries. 2. We're going to have a wedding. It'll be permissible. By means of the arrival of a government and a community to trade in the land, it will be possible to conform to the regulations of law and organization. We will also consider the right to restore the premium of rural society to the ground. 3. The Environmental and Resource Ministry hastens the production of policy-making guidelines on agriculture systems and other means of identifying habitats in rural development. In fact, it is intended to be a national planning policy in cooperation with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Organization, the European Union of rural society, the Geography, the Forest and the Farming Organization. This task must simply be rushed. 4. Laws in the area of land registration and property boundaries will be reviewed and replaced. 5. Farming evaluations will be updated, but there is an example that the world's real estate assessments have not been updated for decades. You could use it as a control device. 6th If you come to a loan fund for your land, you will pay for it. 7. The laws relating to land management and land resources will be reviewed in view of the progress of other activities and the experience with the law. It may even need to be. to make more sure that income comes from land and construction to those who want to live in rural areas and from rural areas. So I am also curious about the extent to which the Ministry of Presidency operates or conflicts with these measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator asking about the position of the Ministry of Presidency in making clearer laws for soil and land exchange. I'm going to review the position of that work as it already is. It's been shown in my earlier court case that if we want to look at these matters, we'll have to look at them whole. They're not about any one set of songs. In particular, it is a special extract for non-EU persons first, i.e. In the EEA, the agreed rule on a case in that area is not valid, but for the non-EU Member States, it is not. It has been estimated that the bill has been working to legalize the laws of property rights and rights, No. 19/1966. This law holds that a main policy is that a citizen is the condition of having the right to obtain possession or right to use on property in this country. From that point on, there are important exceptions, and I quote to the court of the EEA. What I believe is important for the Council to take sides... is whether the legislature policies of the Lawgiver should be clearly established in terms of the conditions that the non-EU citizens can buy land or property. As this has been the case, a relatively open source is not clearly defined by the law which conditions should be set. I believe it is normal for me to be more specific in the law so that the counseller's will is available, regardless of who handles the vacancy at any given time, but the conditions are about the law on non-EU regulations. If we want to view a complete review of the law on property and the use of real estate, that is because of the circumstances. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir was specifically asked if her work is confined to soil and apartment laws, that certainly it comes to the surface and state layers, but also planning laws, nature protection laws and laws that are involved in the registration of real estates, e.g. Law No. 6/2001, about registration and real estate evaluations. It would be considered that mine would know to present a specific national interest bill which would be classified according to the use and use of available resources. Many changes were made in 2004, including 2004. because of the indication from the EFTA that we are involved in the EEA. As for the geological law, particular attention should be given to whether there is a reason to reimburse the country's premium, which was taken from the law in connection with the council with that discussion, and what conditions it would be bound to meet. It would also be to consider whether there is a reason to limit the number or size of soil that one or a linked person could possess. They need to consider whether there should be any authority to remove land uses. One thing that needs to be considered is the possession of a partner to the ground, but it may be difficult to have a overview of the real ownership of such associates, although a bill from a travel, industrial, and innovation minister who became part of our law on real owners will lead to significant progress in these matters. Of course, it is very important to have clear information about who are the real owners of such communities at any given time and thus land. I believe that it has taken a measure of natural and healthy political debate over these matters and has been entangled in their hearings under many departments. I've got lawyers working on proposals that will be discussed in the government, but there's no question whether there will be any special bills in all of those areas or whether there will be a plot against me that would reach all these conflicting categories. The big issue in this is that neither the Constitution nor its regulations on property rights nor the EEA agreement nor its directives on comparable rights within the EEA set out by the legislation on property and use of real estate in the interests of public interest. We have many examples from our fellow workers in the EEA, whether it is Denmark, Norway, Ireland, and I could continue, who are authorized by national governments to take action in the case of overcomplication of land ownership, to form a land intended for agricultural use, or a country once important to the government. I think we have, unfortunately, that the Council does not approach this matter with sufficient parishion in recent years. [[The president calls.]] It has only been made clear that the EEA Convention can prevent government control as it should. It just isn't like that, and I think it's very important that they test the political will of what people are prepared to do. [[The president calls.]] To me, this is a big deal, and it's about our future sovereignty, for we know that land and water rights are among the most attractive investments of our day and that they just become even more sought after. [[The president calls.]] - I'm sorry, Mr President, it's about the temperature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u49	The president asks all participants, including the highest. Minister, watch out for deadlines. Ministers and senators may need to speak up for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u50	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log, for starting this discussion on earth, and for having an opportunity to participate in that discussion. We are once again discussing a case that has burned with men for years and years. It's become kind of a farce. Today, we're listening to what we're doing. U.S. Marshals and the Supreme Court. The minister is asking and discussing the situation. The land collection and trade of foreigners have been in the dough for a long time, and many have been driving precipitously when foreign and distant persons are somehow registered to the whole and half of the provinces, along with all their resources. The blessings of the EEA treaties cannot be blamed because in these areas we have a significantly greater source than our neighbors in the North countries and even though some nations are part of the European Union that we are not. So it is reasonable to ask: What prevents such a bill from being revealed long ago? Is it not reasonable to associate farms in this country with farms, especially in large land uses where special resources are found or land uses? What's the problem? There are extensive reports on what can be done. Why is this hiccup? Is this perhaps a decision that is not motivated to make? How long should we wait? Is it not a desire to change the law and prevent massive sale of foreign people on earth? If that's not what it's willing to do, you just say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's tune, for bringing up the earth and its possession. No matter what people's viewpoint on this matter, I think we can all agree on the importance of explaining the laws for soil and land trade. We talked about this last November last year, and then we had suggestions on the matter and a year later or so up to the point, although I was a professional at the top of the class. Prime Minister that the work is clearly under control. So we must stress that this is going to be over and done soon. In fact, to me it is not a matter of ensuring that the power of resources is owned by the people of the country. Rather, it is the most important thing to take care of and ensure that farms and resources that they may follow do not gather on few people of each nation as they are. Just as a lack of possessions is never desirable, we need to keep in mind the precious resources of earth's resources, such as water rights. So I would like to have some rules about how much land each one can have, whether it is Icelanders or foreigners. As noted in the report by a staff on land ownership, other North countries have already established such restrictions in their legislation, such as Norway and Denmark, but also for example. Islands of India who have some strict rules about farms and such things, even to have a house. Which way would the government want to go? So the government has to answer, and as soon as possible, but I missed hearing a second passionate speech. Before long, prime minister will plan to complete this work and make arrangements for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u52	V.E.G. President. I think that the cause of this discussion is clear to all, the integration of property on Earth in Iceland. I was windowing our Age last night reading about the 15th century. At that time, The Loftur ríki of Guttormsson had over 100 possessions, and there was no taken - out business. I agree that there are rules that limit compression on the earth. We have some practical suggestions. You were absolutely right at the highest. Prime Minister earlier that it is not limited to the Constitution or to the EEA contract. However, we need to identify the problem. We need to know what the problem is if we have it. Is there an abnormal compression? We need to babysit too, chief. Prime Minister, the price on earth is natural. There is much to care for. I have high hopes for groundwork to set some rules. It's important and wide across the field, planning, soil and apartments, environmental laws, etc. It's not a simple piece of work, but I think it's important that we do it so that we create an environment where equality is maintained and we all stand at a relative point, but we provide a normal environment for selling property or land on the market. [[The president calls.]] I trust that, chief. Prime Minister, that there's a good bill coming out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir log, very much for starting the discussion. It's an emotional matter. We all love our country, and I can imagine that this could be as emotional as the discussion of a pack of three might be. Land and land in Iceland - it's worth considering whether we need to, just in view of our desire to be a sovereign nation in our own country, to reevaluate that matter. I can't quite agree with everything in the council arrangement that was proposed by the proponents and others in the past, because I think we need to examine at the beginning what our goal is. Should the goal be to prevent foreigners from inheriting land? Should too many land be prevented from gathering on few hands? Should farms be prevented further decrease? Or should any country where they are be prevented? We need to think carefully about this. These may be major market interventions, and invasive measures are often fragile. But no matter what goals we agree on, it can hardly be reached by quarters. I really liked the answers made by a prime minister earlier. I wanted to give her special attention to the fancy land information systems that we already have and that we could use in this work and in better planning for the future. We have an LUKR system of Reykjavík City, I'll mention it, and we have it. It's just a matter of having the right data and the right information. However, regarding deserts and such, I would like to point out that soils are going desolate without any assistance from foreigners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u54	A respectable president. Over the past few years, there has been considerable discussion of the potential effects of the integration of land ownership and the growing holding of foreigners on land. Opinions over the possession of foreigners are not new but, in my opinion, have been less likely to be discussed over the years on the possible effects of the integration of property on earth. It is my opinion that the transition on earth should be as free as possible. Yet, like other property rights, they must submit to that limit, and only the limits of public interest. Ministers and members of the present administrative body have repeatedly expressed the opinion that land management should be limited to rule out men and women of a foreign background from the ability to own land in Iceland. At the same time, the same categories as their members have felt that men and women should be excluded from obtaining land in Iceland if they were to be rich without precisely identifying where the line is between rich and others. Such categories of people in a condition that is competent or deserving and unworthy to own a land have little to do in my terms of public interest. The main risk in the material in question is the compression of ownership. In this area, exactly as in all others, it is able to become too strong and, at the same time, reduce competition and inhibit procreation forces, including some. ... thatexploitedthelands. A competition, the power of pioneers, and the power of innovation are the best interests of the whole. That's why I think it's only right that these points, many of which, including the above, have been carefully reviewed. to consider whether it is a maximal possession of individuals, whether foreigners or Icelanders, that we put in law, and we try to figure out where that will be. I would also like to assume that in various ways within the EEA, certain rules have been set. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we should view it, but we try to aim for freedom of possession. Let's respect our property rights in favor of the public rights and the public interest as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's book for this discussion and prime minister for participating in it. What I really need to point out, and I think we should be completely exemplary in these matters about Earth's property, Danir. It's a great rule for Denmark, and it's very clear that if you're gonna buy a farm there, you have to make use of it and live on it. Then they also have great rules about it if you're going to buy an apartment in some small town in Denmark that you have to have been in Denmark sometime, you have to stay in touch, and you have to live there. What I may be most surprised about in this discussion is the property complex. Who owns Iceland? Can we buy Iceland the way it does? Do we not have to ask ourselves why we have to sell the land? Why can't we just have the right to be on the beach? Isn't that the people of Iceland? Why is it necessary to buy all things and nail that someone owns the land and that they do what they want to do? What, then, does he have? The rain? The wind? Does he have everything that concerns the area? We too need to think a little bit outside the box and ask ourselves, " How will we make it happen, who will use it, and how? ' I'm saying for my part, I think that now that people are buying up whole salmon fishing for - for what purpose? We don't know. But I ask, "When a person buying the earth falls away, what will happen to it? ' It can have a good purpose, but we do not know what purpose the individual has. We must watch out and make sure that it is in law, that it is clear that people who gain such a land will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u56	A respectable president. I would like to thank the advocate for this need for this discussion. What is the goal? asked him. paritaprevir Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir. It is probable that the goal is to try to stay in the country and that we can continue to use our resources in the future as we have and do now. But I'm going to intervene in a synopsis of the geological action programme at the Council of the Agency. I'm gonna come over here to help. 6th It is about setting up a loan fund because of land purchases. And why is that needed? Yes, in view of recent reports from the Ministry of finance that it should, for example, be done. Also reviewing the government's policy on earth. So I believe that such loans are desirable and well worth the discussion. We can view it this way regarding the loan loan that only loans will be loans, loans will be long - term, and the individual will not pay off the ossuary but he will only borrow on earth as such, and those who pay in themselves for the use of the capital, i.e. growth. I believe that by that procedure we will make it easier for the citizens to arrive in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. The point is that we need as many people at our table to keep the country built.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u57	Mr. President. I think it's bad evolution that very few people will have large areas of land removed from nationalities. The best arrangement is for farmers to have their own land and use it. They're America's best agents. We have seen this negative development of a foreign land, and we need to keep this trend from continuing as it has been. We don't want to weaken a farm on good farms in the countryside, and this is a class of new tenants. Earth property has to be monitored, but it is very difficult today. The taxation may be considered in order to prevent land collection because land is taken out of agricultural use. Today there are huge lands with low real estate values, hundreds of millions of earths that have gone shopping and sales. It needs to be set, e.g. In a better way, salmon fishing was built on a social foundation. When land is new to farm, real estate pay should reflect the lack of money in the community that does not hold on to farm - stocking properties. We'll talk a lot about carbon binding in this hall. Farmers play a key role in that work in the countryside. They are farmers who have performed land - healing work and have served as groundkeepers over the years, not British or Icelandic wealthy. Let us remember, too. We need to stop this demolition before we have to lose these trends through the presence of some of the localisation disorders. I trust that bill as the highest. Whether in the form of a bandorm or in any other way, prime minister will submit to stop this negative trend immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u58	Mr. President. It is ironic that at the same time we have been celebrating the 100th anniversary of sovereignty, let us look after our country into the hands of foreigners who do not want to build it. Governments have stood afar off and watched without action. In a number of countries, the land and the number of land mines are restricted to foreign trades. It is reasonable and reasonable to place restrictions in this country in the same way. You can, for example. Note that in Austria, which is in the European Union, land markets are special. There are no many earths to be collected, and it would be nice to remind you that in Iceland, there is one rich man who has more than 40 earths. This is a tragic development, Mr. President, and unfortunately, it would have been possible to intervene much earlier. In 2013 the then government appointed a committee to review the laws on property rights and rights of real estate, No. 19/1966. This is a fine report, and it offers suggestions on how to cope with the situation. It has been five years since the report was published, and nothing has happened in this case. It contains very practical suggestions, e.g. is one simple thing that could have been done which perfectly fits the EEA Convention, to enact a law-enforcement requirement. It is not difficult to make a requirement for those who buy the earth to live there. However, that was not done. It doesn't have to be a complete committee. It doesn't take a big concierge to deal with it. No, Mr. President, it's very simple to do this, and unfortunately, the government has completely slept on its guard. [[The president calls.]] I agree with the highest. The prime minister that this is a big deal that must be handled, and I certainly hope that this will succeed by means of the proclamation of the highest bill. This is what the prime minister has mentioned. I'm sorry, I'm not hopeful in the light of experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u59	Mr. President. Of course, we need general laws on earth, their use, their association, and the common people. Above all, though, we need to limit unbridled soil sales of individuals and associates completely from nationalities. In itself, in each case, I feel that not everything matters to me whether a person buys a farm without having a regular home. Despite living on earth, the earth can be badly treated. Surely we must look for ways to combat a very large purchase person with even blurred plans that seek the entire countryside. I don't think it all matters if it's really Icelandic or foreign. I simply do not think that earth will become limitless and with fewer hands and more and more, no more than I think our resources or the amount of wealth will be collected on fewer hands. We need to deal with all this. It may be asked, " Do I need to squeeze some condition in the face of a very large household of people who have no visible contact with the area or other things?'I don't know. The important thing is that there are laws in general. New energy does not always lead to the earth being handled properly, as the examples illustrate. V.E.G. The president gave earlier today permission to plough Latin instead of English, and I think I should end it by saying, Terra sphaerica est. [[Foreground on: Well done.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u60	Mr. President. I think the trade of foreigners or their collection of land is no more a problem in itself than in Icelandic investors, rich people, or what they want to call it. I'm thinking interest, for example. Even if an English person owns a few landes, there are no worse people in the armed forces than if it were an Icelander. An Icelander wouldn't guarantee them any more. The problem seems to be to prevent the gathering of few hands on earth rich in natural resources, salmon rights, water rights, etc. There is something we should consider, that can be done. For example, there is a way that leads us. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson and I have suggested, to limit the voting rights of the hunters, and I know that the highest. Aggressor has taken this matter into his own arms. We have also provided a bill that helps generation change in employment, including farming, and there is something to be considered. I think it's time to see if we shouldn't enter law that there would be no tax returns to generations change on farms, as agricultural management continues for a certain period of 10 to 15 years or so. Or you might wonder, " Do I not have a role model in the laws on property that are related to people's neighbors and whether they should be reviewed, for example? ' on landowners, duties such as holding fences, participating in mountain lands, etc. [[The president calls.]] I think this is an action we should be doing, and I think could even serve the interests of farmers and owners of the Icelandic world best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u61	Mr. President. There's been a lot. I don't mind reacting after something happens, but I'm glad we're looking into this and putting a general frame ahead of time. The well should be stopped before the baby is dropped, said somewhere. I strongly warn you of the conditional conditions of landowners. I would like to take as an example the old farmer who wants to go to the gravel or urbanity, to the nursing home, and rent out his son or daughter on the ground. If it were the landlord's responsibility, it wouldn't be possible. There's an unacceptable intervention in the market. If we make an exception to this and allow our rent on the ground, we must realize that then we can end up in a kind of religious organization where the land of the wealthy hires the poor Icelanders. I think we generally agree on our goals, but we disagree on the ways in which we lead them. I am absolutely certain that this will not be achieved with a living. We have an example for both of us from our fishing system, from the seabed conditions. There we have not only a limited number of foreign property but also a barrier to accumulation or integration of total property. This could be an example. I'd still like to warn you that we're too tight on land and land. I can't quite tell if a Dutch real estate company on the downtown town of Reykjavík or Gamma. [[The president calls.]] I don't see a big difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u62	Mr. President. I welcome the tone I hear at the council. People are disappearing a little from binding property on earth that only Iceland can own the earth. I hope I understand the majority of the U.S. Congress correctly. Whether they belong to foreigners or to non - Israelites, the greatest threat is the unity of land ownership. We need to find ways, and I feel that I detect here a fundamental tone that we can probably meet together to look at further. I don't see that the alien ownership of foreigners revolves around national sovereignty, it's very difficult to see that the nation's sovereignty is impaired because of its ownership. Still, we need to keep a clear eye on this and make a special examination within the National Security Council in view of the fact that a foreign state, direct and indirect, enters certain areas, whether through ports or airports. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. The prime minister of the National Security Council is paying close attention to what is taking place in order to form a film in Finnfjordur. The big picture is that I highly believe that we agree that the danger is not the foreigners, but the danger is not some undefined, wicked, wealthy people. I think we should be able to unite in finding some standards, as has been done in the fishing grounds. Although rules need to be sharpened, it was thought that with 12% of the peak branch collections, it was being kept out of place and that the sources were not only in the hands of a few. In this discussion, I find many positive things to be true. I have to admit that I was afraid that we were going to an auction at national polygamy, but we're not. It is much better that we can agree on this discussion on the wise course when it comes to the conquest of our Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u63	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Ministers'comments and others who participated in the discussion. It has been very good and much deeper and more detailed than when we discussed these matters less than a year ago. I am also very happy to hear the magnitude of the prime minister's proselytism. It's important to win the whole thing. It is a vast task, and many need to do so. We see how the discussion has changed in one year, and it will give us a better conclusion. There's an amazing harmony in the discussion, and I think it must be a guide for the rest. It is clear that governments can use various instruments to influence the provision of the land. It is important that we make a basic decision on how we will do so and in whatever goals the public interests are always guided. I welcome each step we take, and I guess they have to be many, perhaps small steps, some big and others smaller. At the same time, we need to understand the basis for our existence. It needs to be clear how we want to use resources on land for a long time and how we make it a law code. The problem, as we have seen, is a complex problem if property is always far away from the earth. In some cases, it could be placed on the ground, elsewhere it would be a farm duty within a rural society, perhaps at some distance. Then I feel that the basic things in this country are similar to the conditions of the countries around here. A major factor in the economic development of human society and sustainable use of nature and innovation is the well - thought - out management of land and land. Governments are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-12.u64	Mr. President. Thank you for a very good discussion. Hv. The members of Congress discussed only the goals of law change, so first, I want to say that I think that the aims of law change must be to strengthen the legal environment of real estate, including the use and possession of real estate. The governments have to contribute to the economic use of the land's property and agriculture in accordance with public interest. When I talk about sovereignty, they don't only apply to foreign investors, just to make it clear, but they generally focus on the integration of the land under certain individuals or associates of a particular individual, regardless of nationality. There is too much pressure in the country's cooperation irrespective of nationalities as well as in terms of national sovereignty. However, the objective of the revision is also to improve the transparency of real estate and the perspective of the government on that subject. It is natural and necessary to know who owns Icelandic land and land quality, including the U.S. Through a business. In 2019 the 1,335 land of 7,703 soil, i.e. 17%, owned by law. There are other real estates, e.g. Home space, not included. In 2009, ten years ago, the number of 908s increasing 47% in a decade is seen in the number of holdings in the hands of law enforcement. I must say, I was amazed to hear it. The members of the Central Party are amazed at how much time this has taken and refer to a 2014 report that has not been carried out with them when their chairman, hm. paritaprevir That was the prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I see they are. People are not in the hall, but if they were in the hall, I would point that criticism to the Fatherhouses and ask them to discuss this at the Central Party Conference rather than complain about what others are doing. This is where we talked. Parliaments on salmon fishing rights, and I would like to mention that there is also a view of those experts who are considering these matters. I didn't get to review all the issues there is. I have them to consider now in my ministry, in view of the fact that things are being heard by many different ministers, as shown in my case. [[The president calls.]] But I can see why. Since members of Congress will complain that they are not allowed to see the bigger picture, I mentioned the possibility that there may be a tapeworm. [[The president calls.]] It will not appear until late this fall council, but then members of the Parliament will also have the entire picture, which may make it easier for them to take their stand on the subject.
