ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u1	Honorable generals. Before the session, the president would like to announce that at a meeting of the Presidency Committee earlier this morning, it was agreed to hire Árnadóttir, the vice president of the Landing Director, in the office of the Generals. Árnadóttir accepts the office of September 1st. At the same time, the work of the current office manager, the Helgi of Bernódusson. He will be thanked for his fine work later, but Ragna Árnadóttir is welcome to work and hopes are in good and successful cooperation with her. The first woman, Ragna Árnadóttir, may be assigned to serve this highest position in the land, and she has yet to fall there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u2	Mr. President. We're dealing with a complicated situation, i.e. how to resolve matters after the advice of a manor has been laid down. People have tried to approach it in the most upbuilding way, but I have come to realize that it is likely possible to use and do better. So I suggest that the matter be discussed by a committee. What I especially need is an opportunity to examine such things as the great difference between the salary of ministers and members of the council. I believe that if this opportunity were to be used to minimize the great difference, it could result in the fact that some classes would be less willing to sacrifice their political policies in order to obtain several privileges of service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u3	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a panel of parts of the General and Education Committee on the bill for the Sexual Self - Control Act. I'm gonna try in my speech to skim at a big one. A number of changes come from the Committee, and I intend to make an explanation of the major ones - but of course you can learn more about them in the opinion of the committee itself and in a specialized presentation provided by the committee's opinion. This bill holds the right of individuals to define their own gender and thus aims to ensure that their sexual senses are accepted. That's the main thing. The bill will include: about the right to change the official registration of gender. Of course, it was a big decision when it came to these matters, especially when children or young ones should be involved. The majority stress that it is important that child - care issues are not associated with mental disorders, as may have been a tendency in the discussion. There was a view that all individuals under the age of 18 should always be clients of BUGL to change their gender registration to a national file. Although the majority do not agree with this view, they agree, accepting the importance that children and their families can approach the BUGL team and other professionals for support of service. So it is clear that it is not necessary to do so, but the access is open. These are proposed to make changes in the bill, which involves changing the age criteria in which the bill explains that children and young people who have reached 15 years have the right to change their registrations. A greater proportion of the material suggests a change in the amount of 18 years old. The committee overtook this matter very thoroughly, and there was a view from, including, the case. Children's Institute for Care especially needs a certain group of young people. The majority thus feels that if the committee takes full consideration of the age and development of children and their right to make decisions about their own lives, it is not undesirable to consider the role of the expert committee in dealing with children until 18 years of age. The visit by a professional committee can give a child support, which can be a picture in situations where a child or a youth may face opposition from his parents. The majority of the details are that in these matters, it is very important to ensure that, according to their age and development, children have special protection and support when it comes to making these decisions. That's why, as I say, the majority of the item contributes to a change to Section 4 and 5. The bill for submission to 18 years of age, but it also adds in Article II that a group of working according to the bill will be assigned to consider whether it is desirable to bring these dates down and how they can be done and not only to protect the right children, especially children in a more sensitive position, and to ensure a conclusion on how to approach this matter. While the chairman of my section of the Committee will, of course, account for his committee party following, I don't think I'm saying too much by saying that the committee formed a rather good agreement on this and that there is a view that would have to be taken into account the cautions that, in fact, would have to be taken into account. Children's Institute of Children's Health upstairs. There's a suggestion for a change on the 9th floor. The bill, a specialist committee on changes in the sex registration of children, and the management of the case discussed the expertise of those who are to appoint this expert committee on the sex registration of children. The importance of appointing specialised persons with expertise in the subject and directing it to ensure that such expertise will exist on the committee. In 1 1. The bill is about physical immunity. In the treatment of the case, it was noted that the bill did not guarantee children under 16 years of age physical immunity and protection from unnecessary intervention of their gender characteristics without their consent. The more part would like to point out that the bill shows that there are conflicting opinions about action that involves changes in gender characteristics and that the subject with the bill also shows that it is important to continue the discussion. It is therefore suggested in the bill a provisional setting where a minister is expected to set up a staff to manage children born with atypical sexual traits and to make recommendations for improvement. The majority agree with this, and they think it is premature to make a suggestion for other changes in the sexual characteristics of these children. Because to the commission, a view was made that it simply isn't finished. Therefore, considering the above, the majority of the items contribute to a change of 11 mg. for children between 16 and 18 years of age, a panel of Pediatrics needs to be evaluated at the time of surgery. We do not suggest, however, that the provisional law concerning the Intersex children will be passed on to temporary regulations but that the staff will be timed and that they should submit laws 12 months after the execution of the law. In between 12 and 13. will be discussed with the National Hospital's team on sexual awareness and changes in sexual characteristics and in the childhood and adolescent group on sexual awareness and atypical sexual characteristics. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that there should not be a law to which professions should be in any other way than that they should be cross-cutting professionals with appropriate knowledge and experience. The majority agree that this team is cross-cutting and organized by professional people, but they agree that it is not right to list exactly who is in it and therefore suggest a change in the requirement that there is no legal law that there is to be a gender specialist. However, the majority would like to draw attention to the target of the law bill, which is approaching the issues of trans- and Intersex people not only from clinical grounds but also in the social light of these issues. It was also pointed out in the treatment of matters that are not included in the work of the hospital's specialized departments in part that clients receive peer instruction in cooperation with stakeholders. The majority agree that in general it is not customary in other areas of the hospital that professional teams are legally bound to agree with the interests and patient groups. Hence, the change in terms of removing this law from both paragraphs 12 and 13. The bill. However, more than that, the team has the authority to call a controlled organisation to cooperate and advise, and it is actually desirable to do so, even though it is not a legal duty, since such cooperation may be of great importance to ensure that it is the best service to this group. A respectable president. The biggest changes the committee is making, it can be said, to protect age conditions, that instead of aiming at 15 years of age to change their registration to the age of 18 but that a group will be assigned to find ways to bring this age down and then to cooperate with the Children's Protection Agency, the Children's Subcommittee and the Daily Association. It is very important that this conversation becomes and that these parties are all at the table. Other changes are proposed. Some are word changes; others are designed to make the law even clearer. Some of these results - just changes must be made to think that changing the age range in one place needs to be changed to another place. It has been pointed out in the treatment of the situation that it will need and is being changed by various other laws in order for all of this to fit, which is expected to have to be adjusted accordingly. Because we are making major and important changes, a group of people, including provisional regulations II, are assigned to continue to discuss the necessary changes that may arise in later stages in this matter. I have explained the largest and most significant changes in the bill, but as I say, they are quite a few more, and they can be considered in a special modification box that comes with the bill and, of course, read more about it in the committee opinion. This committee of the General and Education Committee is in a hurry. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Árnadóttir Þóra's daughter, Bortsis the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson the son of Proppé, and Þórarinn Ingi, son of Pétursson. We suggest that with the changes most of the General and Education Committee will suggest that the bill be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u4	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that this bill contains a lot of news. This is a very important legal step that has long been the fight between a trans and an intersex people. It is, as the bill shows, about sexual autonomy, that a person owns how he faces his own sex traits and sexual traits. I think it's important to immediately state that this is a very important matter, that is of utmost importance, and that we should be delighted that it has come here. Then I'd like to thank you next time. paritaprevir For the sake of the greater part, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. She has worked very well on this subject, and all has been very carefully discussed by the committee. Here I recommend a minority party, but it's only right to say at the outset that the smaller part supports in all the main points, in all ways, the greater part's opinion, except for what is involved in children under 16 years of age. According to this, the reduction in the share remains. It is thus in our mind that the core of sexual autonomy is a person's right to define his or her gender and the right of all to enjoy physical immunity and that the individual's own gender is accepted. This is what we all agree with, the more part of it too. This includes, in particular, an uncircumcised right to self - penalties and changes in sexual traits. It is forbidden to make permanent changes to the sex organs, to gonads, or to other gender characteristics of an individual 16 years of age or older without his written consent, such as 11 g. The bill. Lasting changes include Surgery, chemotherapy and other irreversible medical procedures. This leads to the memory of the object. Despite this, the prohibition is not for children under 16 years of age. Then there is provision for a special consideration. The minority stresss that the bill does not assume that children under 16 years of age will receive basic rights to sexual autonomy to the same degree as others. Their rights must continue to wait for a while, according to temporary regulations, their advice to the bill and to submit their results after 12 months. After that, you need to put in a bill, the General Information on it, etc. so I think it's a careful estimate that this process all together will take at least A year and a half. That makes the smaller things unacceptable. We believe that the right of 16 - year - olds and younger children is prepped in the bill, and we take our minds to the viewpoints of many references to the bill and discussion in the treatment of the matter. The minority opinion quotes the reviews, and I'm not going to review all of them, but just to quote a few of them, first from Amnesty International, on permission of the president: The Intersex and Adult rights programme provides an opportunity to protect the rights of the Intersex Children and Adults, but at present there is no lack of essential protection for the Intersex Children. In particular, in terms of non-necessary, irreversible and invasive measures on children born with atypical biological gender characteristics. According to the Children's Health Organization, by permission of a president, the concept of permanent changes in sexual organs, gonads, or other sex characteristics of individuals under 16 years of age feels that such measures are appropriate without the approval of their children. By permission of the President, the '78 organization makes a serious comment on the fact that the bill does not guarantee the physical immunity of children under 16 years of age and requires that the bill be added to the bill, in that case, in an appropriate way. By permission of the president, the Children's Office agent believes that instead of ensuring a group of children under 16 years of age with nontypical sex characteristics of protection and the right to physical immunity, it would be better to keep its provision in the bill itself instead of forming a team to discuss this information in detail. The minority has considered proposals submitted at the time by the self-provoked group of work that is outlined in the report with the bill. I'm not going to read them, but I even had them there. proposal to put in the prevention of children with atypical gender characteristics. We accept the law laid largely unchanged. We submit a new article at the bill under the term 'Subjection of the Child's Sex Symptoms, which is a sign of atypical gender. How Would You Answer? mg, by permission of the President: ▪ Do not make permanent changes in the genital system, gonads or other sex traits of children born with atypical sex symptoms if it is possible to delay them until the child is able to grant her informed consent to the treatment. It is only allowed to operate on such measures if urgent health conditions require it. Social, psychological, and physical reasons cannot justify such intervention in a child's body. I'm not going to trace the law, as it is suggested that the provision of the provision be canceled, since it will then be unnecessary, since this law has already been set down in this way. The smaller part does not consider probable to postpone this process in the way the most part suggests. A person's gender, sexual traits, and self - awareness about what he is one of the most personal things he can imagine. Human beings differ. Like other substances, it is very diverse in this regard. As a community, we have an obsession that people must be either male or female, that there is no room for compromise. It often seems that what matters is far more important than who the person is. This is what we have to change. Of course, we need to attack the root causes of this problem so that all people realize that people are just the way they are and that they are to determine for themselves what they want to be. Therefore, the smaller item feels unacceptable that the body members of young children are taking action to control their future fate and can cause irreparable damage and discomfort to the future. Of course, this has to stop. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. The opinion of the smaller parts speaks for itself, but it stands for Jón Valdimarsson, who stands here, who is the chairman of the minority in regard to Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Sanfán Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson. Finally, I would like to sharpen and encourage the United States to consider this matter very carefully, and I would like to lend us a small part of it and accept our proposed changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u5	Mr. President. Here we discuss an enormously important balance, a fundamental issue of individual authority for self - definition of gender. You see, each of us has a basic right to life and body. That fundamental course will not be taken away from us. This is the right to take this right from people under any circumstances. This involves the self - determination rights of individuals over their own bodies, including sexual autonomy. The bill we are discussing here today is a cause of great joy, for some so probably and for so easy, that it really doesn't have to be discussed. Yet, this is such a big step to ensure the basic human rights of a group of people of this day have had their sexistic self - sufficiency under strangers, under medical professions, or even some completely different people. Yes, for some, this is such a fundamental matter that it should not really be discussed. Yet, it is so important to come up here, even in the last days of the council, when the time is running out, just to draw attention to this matter and to discern what cases of self - determination may be a huge step in the human rights struggle. That's why I'm up here because I'm celebrating this good case and I'd like to celebrate the fine work that's been on the committee. But as we accept this matter at the General Assembly, there is an abundance of security. Unfortunately, in modern society, it is important to be protected, as well as, of course, by other people, for domestic and sexual abuse. It is also important to secure the right passage of children, to ensure their own self - determination rights over their lives and bodies. I take my heart to the words of the Women's Rights Association of Iceland that only by progressive education in equality and gender could the root causes of gender discrimination in the community. Increased education must take place in the whole school system, but there must also be increased education within the health system, within the social system, within the legal system, within the community. Children's safety needs to be assured. It is extremely important to ensure that there are no permanent changes in the sex organs, gonads, or other sexual traits of children if it is possible to delay them until the baby itself can accept treatment. As you can see from reviews, a number of organizations and stakeholders sent out a review in which the call for a smaller section of the General and Education Committee to provide child support. These include the '78 Syndicate, Amnesty International, Childfriend, Child Welfare, Intersex, Iceland, the National Rights Office of Human Rights, Trans Iceland, and, finally, the Children's Agent. All of these have made a sincere request to the General for the protection of children from irreversible intervention in their lives and bodies. No one, Mr. President, no parent, no one, can take the fundamental right of a child to rule his own sexual independence. Only surgical procedures such as previously mentioned, irreversible genital, gonads, or other sexually transmitted symptoms should be subject to urgent medical conditions requiring urgent physical reasons. Social, psychological, and physical reasons cannot justify such intervention in a child's body because we are here talking about irreversible surgery. In addition, putting a legal decision in the hands of parents to create irreversible interventions that can have a permanent negative impact on the life and health of the child may have irreversible negative effects on the child's relationship with his family. No individual can make a decision about another person's gender. Behind that, Mr. President, there's a complete impossible possibility. No parent can make a decision about the sex of his child. It's just not like that. This is about the complete self - awareness of the person being discussed. No one else can make that decision. The intervention of another person's body should only be allowed when it comes to unequivocal health risks but not under other circumstances. Therefore, I will not agree that some form of such law will be authorized there. I'm completely incomprehensible that children under the age of 16 are not protected by Iceland's legislatures, the legislature. For those who have not gone through being in a position of personal identity or watching a person pass through this process, this is often completely incomprehensible. Many questions may arise: What is this? Is this a fashion phenomenon? What is this nonsense? Have you ever been in bad company? How can you come up with that? Is this not just something you have read in magazines or in books? All these questions are understandable because we are only human. You're not supposed to drag your own personal life in here, but since I've personally watched a close family member go through this process, it's incomprehensible to me that we're going to agree that a parent, with all his luggage, all his grieving process and human understanding, should have something about this permanent intervention to say. I don't understand if we're going to go out there across the lines of all these professionals. The '78 Amnesty International, Children', Children's Health Agency, Intersex, Iceland's Human Rights Office, Trans Iceland, and the Children's Agent are not just Jón og Gunna in town. They're people who know what they're talking about. These are people who regularly come to these matters. I just have to say here that this is a huge deal. It's so important that we agree with the bill, but we don't house the intervention of parents who don't know what the baby's going through because they can never know it. We can never fully relate to another person's feelings. That's impossible for us. We can never completely tell what another person is going through. The technology has not been invented that we can live in the head and body of another person. Sex is shared with the human being. She's the only one who knows who she is. No one else can choose, decide, or appoint. We cannot allow anyone to perform an irreversible physical operation on another person because you just feel that it must not happen at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Being a trans person is not a choice, not a choice, no more than I have the choice to be a woman. I'm a woman, I didn't pick it, I'm just a woman. It's not a choice. We've decided to call someone a seed because the person is in a body that we define somehow different, which society has decided to define differently. We don't have a choice, not a decision. It's like this, and the person just knows it from the beginning. Some people look different, and then we in our community have decided to call it a transmission. This bill is so important, and I can't wait to vote for it. I challenge those who once wondered not to support the committee opinion with the changes made by the memory section to seriously consider doing so now. The decision may be changed after the case has been handled by the Generals. It's an opportunity to be a sexual person. It is available to stand with children and provide needed protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u6	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill dealing with sexual autonomy. It's a little perturbing to review some of the rumors that have been received. Then I'd like to first mention only what's going on at the Iceland National Registry, which is largely at the expense of the necessary changes to be done on the Agency's registration systems, this bill will be under law. Clearly, it has considerable cost. I have not been able to figure out the cost, either in financial or financial matters. I don't think that's good enough work, as I'm on a budget board. It is clear that this will bring a considerable amount of cost. I think it's perfectly clear, especially in view of the fact that the bill is expected to take effect immediately, if it seems to me. According to Iceland's National Publications Index, by permission of Presidents: The National Institutes of Iceland has provided costs for the necessary changes in the Agency's systems to include reports, services and issue certificates with neutral gender. These are two costs, one because of changes in credit cards and passport production systems and the development of national files. Clearly, the changes to the above systems cannot be made unless there is money for such work. According to a report following the bill, the Ministry of Presidency, in cooperation with Iceland's National and Transport and Regional Ministry, will ensure funding for making these changes... It is a promise that funds will be guaranteed. For example, I don't think it's in the spirit of a good financial administration that this plan has not been specifically understood. It seems to me that a national record emphasizes the urgency of time in these areas. In the case of Mr. President, it is sobering to consider that we accept here something that will result in the cost of state funds, no matter what the amount is and that the financial issue has not been discussed. I think it's reprehensible. All I want to do is step to 6. the bill that discusses neutral registration of gender. It says, by permission of the president: It should be assumed that objective registration of gender is to be performed by Member States and private partners, e.g. in the documents, forms and in the datasets, and should be clearly symbolized. In your passports, you should always represent an neutral registry of gender with the letter X.◯ It is listed which countries have adopted this neutral registration, but I worry when individuals travel to certain countries. I don't know from the Committee whether it was discussed that this objective registration could cause problems when traveling to certain countries. Then I have in particular the Middle East. I think it's absolutely necessary to get some kind of memo about it, e.g. from the Ministry of State, how might it be reacted when individuals with these registrations travel to these countries? We know what these factors are like in the Arab countries. I think it's almost a suicide in some Arab countries to be a homosexual and/or a so-called trans-transmission person, so it's important that it be shown how you imagine this could develop. True, it is in the hands of individuals who may know who are advisable to travel and which countries should be cut off for this. This is a thought - provoking point that I would like to make in this discussion. Then I'd like to come into the custody of the Land Hospital. It says that during the KuGL Walk Department, transgreder was cared for for for for for years. From the past few references were made each year, but since 2015 there has been a rapid increase in number. I'm interested in the increase in references. I don't know if an authority especially knows what is behind it, but it would be interesting to find out if it is available. Then it says: ▪ In 2017, it was decided to form a team for this service, where it became clear that it was necessary for certain employees to have knowledge and training to keep their arms around this group. That same year, there were 13 new arrivals in the team, and 2018 were 21,◯ This also involves financing and is placed in the hands of the Ministry when it comes to financing. It's kind of two teams here, and I wonder if it's the right thing in this regard. I'll throw it out a little bit. A review of three questions previously unproved. The equal room says lower in its review, by permission of the president: ▪1) Is a person born to a male but experienced as a woman permitted to participate in women's race sports? I haven't been able to find out that these figures have been answered by an ecstatic agency, but it would be nice if it were to be done in this discussion. Then, in the second and third, ask: ◯) Is there a person who has documented gender that is not in line with its appearance allowed to use the costume status of each sex? (The New English Bible) Is a person who has a documented sex that is not in harmony with its appearance allowed to exploit women's shelter? These are valid questions, and it would be good to ask here whether this has been considered. It would likely have been discussed on the committee and it would be helpful to find out here what the outcome was. I forgot to mention it, Mr. President, regarding the National Relations Department's review that this says, by permission of the President: It has previously noted that the Agency believes that analysis work and the necessary changes in the Agency's systems will take at least two years. Is that delay as a 17th degree? The bill says it's too tight in the Agency's opinion. I think it's important that we take these comments into consideration because it's mainly Iceland's national records that are expected to have to do a considerable amount of work in this regard. In the 17th. says exactly that those laws are already valid. I think there's something going wrong here. In such a matter, which is important, the preparation must be good, and the lawgiver must take into account comments from the agency to oversee most of the work when it comes to changing this registry. So I think there's a few opinions about the show. You're wondering how important this is. There we will discuss a wide variety of them. It would be good to get an overview of what might have been the cause. Then you can ask about, for example. Teaching in elementary school how they're being treated. That's what matters to me. Other than that, I believe this case needs a better and more thorough consideration. I don't trust myself to support it as it is now. I think, for example. that you need to answer questions sent away by an Astronomy Lab. I think it's a little important, like. with competitive sports. This has caused problems or perhaps more international interests in sports games. Other than that, I think I've finished my case on this subject. As I say, I think it's important to look at e.g. This thing that I mentioned with an E.L.A., to have some answers to the questions that are presented there. Other than that, I think it is necessary that this matter be carefully examined. It's got a lot of opinions, like those of young children who've been here. But I think it's important that this be done in a careful discussion both at the Hall of Congress and at the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u7	Mr. President. This case is coming up till 2nd. and appeared after a discussion about the end of the council. I find it a little strange that the administrative part intends to end such a big deal, apparently one or two days without really having any serious discussion about it. Discussion of these things has been quite high in many countries around us, especially in Britain, where it can be said that discussions about comparable issues have been among the major political issues, and even the issues, even over the past two years, although they are not expected to go as far as this should be. The point is, this is a big deal. It involves various basics, fundamental laws, science, the well - being of children, health, and human rights. As far as I'd thought it would have been preferable for people to have been through more discussions about this in society and here at the council before it was over, there have been some comments and tips on things that need to be considered specifically or by law. I explained that these matters had raised a wide range of discussions in foreign lands. Sadly, that discussion often wants to become quite angry. It has, for example. has been strongly attacked by a number of prominent feminists who have expressed doubts as to which ways they have either gone or aim to take this class, as well as also those of the health professions, allow themselves to offer tips on the connection between their field of service to such matters. Of course, the main thing in this is to ensure the well - being of the public and human rights of the world, but many transversities each has pointed out in a discussion about these matters that what is called in English ◯gate keeping, which I think can be translated into Icelandic as a gatekeeper, is an important part of this, i.e. value the magnitude of the decision as to the nature of the case. Hence, it takes some minimal process to make a decision to change sex and, of course, that those who make it have the support and the right to do so. I'm going to grab a little bit of a review from the Land Hospital and mention a few articles on this bill that the hospital will comment on, or on the hospital's behalf of Ragna Kristmundsdóttir, a mental - health nurse. About Section 3. says a review of the Land Hospital, with permission of the president: We go to 1st. it will be as follows: ▪ Each person enjoys, in accordance with age and development, an unscored right to: Excuse me, Mr. President. I was going to let it go. It's a phrase change. Where I was going to start, there's a comment at four-point-five. par. which says, by permission of the president: We do not think that children under 18 will be able to change their sex registration without the exception of searching for expert reviews in this field, and that candidates are in the service of the research team BUGL. We agree that there is no requirement for a specific treatment, but it is a big, dramatic decision that should be agreed with special professionals. There are several reasons why a person may have an inconsistencies between physical and sexual consciousness, and it is hardly harmful to get help to resolve and reach the best possible outcome. Then there's a 9. and comments to her. It says: ▪ We recommend the details of the skills and experience of the members of the committee, where members of these designated classes do not have it to carry. This could also be another subject, the important thing is that the person has knowledge about the mental health of children and adolescents and the affairs of transgreder individuals. Finally, a statement is made at 13. in the review of the Land Hospital: We do not believe that it is desirable to establish law which professions are to be members of the team in any other way than that it should be cross-cutting professionals with appropriate knowledge and experience. For example. the current text does not mention nurses, but the team's team members have since been a nurse, and this has given them a lot to do. We also add a question mark to the law that a gynaecologist should be part of the team. Sex experts are not a medical profession, and we do not feel the need to add these to our team. It would be almost to provide more funding for the team to raise the CV and receive, for example, a social worker. Training and art management. If there is to be stress, the role of the individual at the hospital needs to be clearly identified as well as support for the recruitment. Being a person born with atypical sexual traits has so far not been a valid reason for reference to a mental - health ward. However, children born with atypical sexual traits have not been dismissed from BUGL if they have a mental illness, and this will not change. If BUGL is expected to receive services and counsel with this group of clients in particular, it is necessary to provide funds, as this would require addition of resources and knowledge. In part that clients receive peer instruction do not include projects of hospital specialized departments, for to date the interest groups have cared well for it. The team has always, and will continue, work in accordance with the World Professional Association for Transgreder Health, which is in agreement with the transvestors around the world. It is difficult to see any legal consultation with the transnational stakeholders. There's no more to say, Mr. President, but this must be a suggestion that needs to be considered in the further process of this case. I'm finally going to give a brief insignia from the transgroup Hospital comment on this bill, which says, by permission of the President: Since 2015, it seems that the current law bill is composed with recent legislation from Malta as a model. In our neighboring countries, this law is far more free than comparable laws. - Here's one more trip: We're going far beyond the neighboring countries. - It's new in the law that humans are trying to skip traditional analyses and work on it. However, care should be taken that health authorities in Malta have little experience in the treatment of transgreder people. In this case, the Malteses with sex - breeds have gone to the black market and sought action in Serbia at their own expense. The Laws were set up for 2015, but no treatment has been started yet. As a result, the health authorities in Malta offered representatives from the LSH treatment team, the Óttar Guðmundsson and Elsa Traustadóttir, to come and discuss with health care professionals and health authorities the best way to establish some kind of treatment job. Doctors declared that they could not function according to these laws, where difficult treatment could be given without analysis. This must be interesting in the context of this bill here, which will be based on this legislation from Malta. I'm going to have more reviews, but there are a lot of them, and there are points that concern health care, registration, financing, moral opinions, individual rights, and child health. But when all of this is taken together, and the size and scope of this matter, I would have believed that it would be preferable for people to take better time to respond to the proposed indications. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to approach the matter in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u8	A respectable president. I give an opinion on the Commission's proposal for changing bill to legalize social assistance and social security laws (counselment and management) from a greater part of the health committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received his meeting with Ágúst Þór Sigurðsson and Sverrisdóttir Röed, the Department of Social Affairs, Þríide Harpa Sigurðardóttir, Sigurjar Sigurjón Sveinsson, Sigríður Hann Hann Hanna Ingolfffsdótir Ingólfsdóttir of Iceland and the Árni Múli Jónasson, and Friðrik Sigurðsson Þórðarson the National Association of Germany. Reports were received from the Allied Union of Iceland, a partner of the older citizens in and around Reykjavík, the National Institutes of Development, the Bank of Environment, and the National Insurance Agency. As further as is done in a report with the bill, the aim of reducing the impact of other revenues is to reduce the effectiveness of public security and social assistance in calculating specific contributions from biosphere because of the production of disability and rehabilitation of donors and, by exception of the daily terms, have been called a dollar to a dollar's impairment. It is also aimed to increase flexibility in the management of professional pensioners to calculate payment so that inter- or temporary employment income can only influence the calculation of improvements in the months they are made but not correctly improved in other months. Section I of the bill suggests changes in social assistance laws. According to Article 6 of Council Regulations, no. $1,200/018, will be registered. The review of the Committee established the view that at the increase in revenue criteria in the a- and b- teams were not advanced enough. It was then referred to by the Committee that although the regulations of the c- and d-joins also included legalization of the Regulation's regulations, the impact of their legalisation was not fully understood. In the c-party it suggests that the sum of money should be calculated according to the currency rights, as per 1 and 4. 18th par. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, and in the d- team it is suggested that improvements in the insurance policy should be counted as earning the calculation of pension. The majority indicates that 2 mg. Section 5. According to regulations on home remuneration and pension, improvements under the social security laws are considered to be a form of income, so the directive does not include material change. However, it was noted that it would be correct, before making any legal declaration, to have a thorough consultation. The majority agree with this, counting C-and-d- team needs further coverage. Therefore, suggests the conversion of the letters to be removed. The "F" team is suggested to calculate specific pensions due to forwardation using 2 mgr. Count 9. the income of 65% of the pensioner's income should be counted with the exceptions suggested in the bill and in the report. However, it is suggested that no 50% of the amount of age-related bioenergy supplementation should be counted according to Article 21. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007. In order to ensure compliance with other forms of change, the more part contributes to reference to the terms of social security accidents. The majority, however, point out that the change has a material significance that improvements in social security insurance will continue to be paid according to 3.mg. Count 9. the legislation on social assistance, although only 65% of them are considered to be involved in the calculation of adeductions. Two. The bill is proposed to make the change of 16. law on social security that we calculate payment according to 17,◯19. par. and 21,◯23. par. The law allows only the remuneration workers to be considered in the month when they are made. The Commission's review showed that the 5th paragraph was set. Section 16. The law would in many cases be unfair, especially to pensioners who serve only part of the year. Business incomes that had been funded for the unique month of the year would be equal throughout the months, even whether the person had been paid in those months or not. In this way, earning money could result in debt due to overpaying benefits. With the bill, it would be suggested that a pensioner be able to choose whether the previously designated arrangement was under way or whether the income will be laid down only in the months when it is obtained. For recalculation of interest level according to 7 mg. Section 16. Based on both methods, the U.S. National Insurance Office compares the calculation of payments to the concerned carer and provides the basis for the results leading to higher payments for the individual. The committee's study pointed out that the rendering of Article 2. it would not be clear that the law contained a set set of regulations from Article 5. Section 16. which would only be used for the job. Therefore, it may cause misunderstandings that the management plan of the budget should be taken into account only professionally. A greater proportion of the items contribute to the improvement in the understanding of the provision. Gives a greater portion of the provision so that income earners can be counted only during the month when they are obtained. If it is thus clear that it includes a special practice that takes place only on the basis of employment, while other income falls on a 5 mg basis. Section 16. Act on social security. In view of other comments made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the greater part also suggests that the 2nd issue contributes to Article 2. will discuss the comparisons of total pay, but not just a fee, in order to eliminate any doubt that both routes should be compared to total pay on social security laws. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: 1st We're on 1st. a. The C-and-d team will be removed. b. Instead of these laws, social security laws and accident insurance laws, the 2nd issue of the f-jords comes: submit to these laws and social security laws. 2. We're on 2. a. Instead of these words, it is necessary to include only reformers of employment during the month that they are funded in the first paragraph of the material: allowed to consider employment to be a payback only during the month when they are made. b. Instead of the term "saltures " in the second paragraph of the material, come the following: a total payment. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson are signing this opinion in advance. Andrés Ingi Jónsson was away from the hearing. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the count of literature, as well as for the prominent speaker, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Eagledotir, in advance, The Guðjón of Brjánsson Brján, Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u9	President. So far, I've had a lot of talk about this bill in a material way. I didn't think it was time, and I thought it was right for all the information to go down before I took up this so-called social and child-relation bill. Ever since I've sat down at the council, I've been a little more concerned about matters. This is a complex case that may be the reason few senators are interested in him despite the fact that in Iceland there are about 20,000 people who are desperate. It's a large group, more populous than many of our major sectors. But it's no coincidence that the group of paintings is complicated. The micro-energy system has been designed to be complex, and as a result, it is one of the most complex systems ever created by Icelandic society, more complex than the cooling system and more complex than financial regulations. In fact, the number of individuals who have perfect understanding of all the calculus laws of micro-organization is very low. Yet, these are the rules that apply to the income of those who are inefficient because of disability. The linking phase reflects fully the karycian absurdity of the system. The reason for this complexity is probably complex, but the effects are very obvious. The more complex the system is, the harder it is to criticize it, and the harder it is to change. Injustice does not work as unfair when you do not understand how it works. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. The social and child-friendly minister who includes reducing the so-called dollar against the loss of a crown, the failure which the representatives of every class claimed to want to cancel in the last election's conduct. I'll be the first one or the other to admit that this bill is a self-improvement for a micro-energy pensioner. It's good, but it's a chicken step. The plea of disability has always been for the complete execution of a dollar in contrast with a dollar's decrease. This is a change made by a minister alone and on his own initiative, apparently in a hurry just before the end of the council, without any consultation with the disorganized interest groups. I find it particularly challenging, considering that a group of workers on the changed social security strategies completed only a few weeks ago, where they had a seating representatives of disability. A minimal agreement would have been an easy - to - face, simple, quick act on the part of a minister. Not to agree simply shows the incompetent and negligent minister for the interests and well - being of disability. According to the main policy, this bill, in turn, covers a dollar against a dollar's decrease, to be 65 dollars in favor of a dollar in return. The cost of this operation is 2.5 billion, which in itself is not so awesome, but it is noteworthy that a minister has not even checked how that action will affect people in different positions. There is no analysis of the mechanism of this for micro-energy transplant recipients of different ages, different habitat conditions, with variable income intakes, etc. In the case of such sums, it would have seemed natural for me to be on the part of a minister to see that the operation would actually help the most needed, the one who has the most impact on the centenarians. After approval of this bill, there will be some facts that I would have considered to be reasonable in considering the contribution. It'll still be reduced from the first crown. There's no "free" sign. A poor person is not yet allowed to earn anything without being affected by the effects of his income. There are still discrepancies between the pension and the disability of the pension, the poorer people will continue to live with more impairment than the pensioner. This does not take into account those with the lowest income, but works evenly above everyone, possibly making it better for those who have more ability to work or who are hipsum chappies, I understand, how this works. This bill further disrupts the rules of the disability reduction in the value of three different levels of income. It would have been a small thing for a minister to do this simply better in advance and to agree with a consumer interest group with that work, a consumer interest organization with which they have a very good idea of how they would have liked to see the 2.5 billion defenders. The call for execution of a penny in front of a coin has been very loud for a very long time during the discussion, and there is no need to work this case at 15 minutes before the end of the council. Why wasn't it already prepared? Although in this case I do not sign the opinion of a majority of the welfare committee and thus fail to accept his position. The reason is simple. I'm sure it's a fair thing to cut off every cent in front of a dollar, and right away. I have provided the bill for the material, now for the second time, but the bill came to the welfare committee in September. and now it has been stuck there for nine months. The bill includes one simple adjustment to one of the newcomers in favor of a dollar, as well as simplifying the system, as representatives of all categories claim to do before elections, i.e. simplifying your social security system and canceling a dollar in return for a dollar. But when I asked for a vote to be settled from a committee in December. that suggestion was dropped by the greater part. The point is, in fact, very clear, not a political wish to completely eliminate this crime, and it is likely that it was never there. President. A blessing has been found that more of the welfare committees have decided to remove the c-and-d- team, but I still want to discuss them a little. For this to happen, we first need to tell a little story, the story of reduced habitats. I'm not going to do much of the details of how the house - to - house damage was achieved, so maybe just beginning the story of Alduke's decision in the summer of 2018. There, an agent concluded that the accounting method of an insurance agency was to find out the residence rates of individuals who moved to Iceland after they had moved to another country in the EEA were illegal. The decision was, in principle, that insurance agencies have not been authorized to divide up the calculated period based on the duration of insurance periods, as they had done for years, between Iceland and other EEA countries, when the applicant did not receive improvement from another EEA. For those who have not entered the microenergy pension system, and even into this special problem of housing impairment, this may sound like a foreign language. And that's exactly what I just described, this system is so incredibly complex that it is difficult to be angry about the injustice involved. I will explain it in English or make an honest attempt to do so. When a person entitled to micro-energy pensions in Iceland has lived part of his life abroad, he is not entitled to the full. The amount of compensation he gets depends on how long he lived in a foreign country. The method used by the government's insurance agency was short of assuming that he would spend relatively as much of his time abroad as he had since he was 16 years of age until he became an invalid. In this particular case of the agent, there were cases, so a 16 - year - old girl moved to Denmark with her parents and then back to Iceland about Twenty-one years old. It was estimated to have been 100% invalid in 2013, but it was thought to have been unworkable since 2011, then approximately Twenty-two. So when her right to disability reform was being determined, it was only the brief period below, i.e. The time since she was 163/422 years old, and for the six years, she had been five abroad. So her right to law was just 118,000. per month. This example illustrates exactly how unfair a place of dwelling can be. Here's a 16-year-old girl who goes abroad with her parents and lives there for a few years and then returns to Iceland, her home most of her life, and she's told that the welfare community in Iceland wants her to die at $118,000. in a month for the rest of your life. The Universal Agent was found to be illegal in this calculation method of an insurance agency, that it was not permitted to calculate this future year so that it would be the same proportion as the time from 16 years of age to the evaluation of a microchip. These years should simply be counted as a home in Iceland. That would be the only legal interpretation of the social security regulations. Paying microspheres in accordance with law should not be complicated. If it is too complicated, it is not to be carried off by micromasks and wait months for payment to start. That is true today. What is the real reason why it has taken so long to start the proper payment for disability? You may find the answer in this bill as well as the bill of the social and child - care minister who was introduced into government consultations on May 13, which is a bill that includes legalization. The minister's answer to the agent's decision that these impairments are illegal will be, in effect, only: Then we'll legalize them, regardless of whether they're unfair, inhuman, unjust - and if not against the EEA rules. With this bill, the minister showed that he would not want to pay microbreds in accordance with local laws. It's just that way. He just wanted to change the law - and the four days after the Ministry released a press release saying that reimbursement due to correction of a farm ratio was about to begin. Very harsh criticism of the bill has, at least so far, prevented its progress. It hasn't been asked for the Council, and I hope it never will be. But the bill we're discussing here is equally interesting. As noted, the majority of the Committee intends to expire the c- and d- team 1. The bill. That's a good thing, and that's the correct conclusion, but the c-partum was designed to validate the impairment of this particular supply we've been discussing. This point says that the amount of special production should be calculated according to the rights of pension, as measured by 1 and 4. 18th par. Act on social security. This adjustment is supported by the implementation of the accepted implementation of an insurance centre, i.e. the use of reduced farm size on this specific progressive supplement. This is, in effect, legalizing a very controversial Regulation and at the same time taking a position on it, without discussion or further analysis, that housing restrictions should be applied to minimal progress. This is especially reprehensible in view of the fact that a minister actually hangs this uninterrupted change in his bill, which is designed to reduce a cent to a level of disability. It seems that a minister is in such a state that he has to pay the price they have to pay, at the very least, so that he tries to slip in this controversial article and hopes that no one will notice. I just can't see it any other way. With one hand, he offers a less lenient choice than with the further impairment. President. At the end of this session, I will resign as head of the welfare committee. It has been an amazing task to cope with this time, and in many respects I am content with the subjects we have been working on and through in the past two years. For the most part, working together within the committee has also been successful. One of my main regrets is likely to be that we failed to achieve more extensive dresser reforms for disability. But we're well on our way, and I'm not done, just so it's clear, I'll continue to demand that the promises of a dollar's execution against a dollar's decrease and to fight for the chance that everyone here will have the opportunity to live a decent life, regardless of what their profession is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u10	A respectable president. We're talking about the Prime Minister's bill on reform and employment management. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to declare a tremendous disappointment with this bill's prototype because you're supposed to believe that things are simple. Unfortunately, however, there is an increase in complexity level, actually a big increase. Simplifying this case would be to receive a cent in exactly the same way that an older citizen was treated, just off with the damage. Then we'd be simplifying the system. That's what we're supposed to do. Instead, a cent in front of a cent is abandoned because they intend to have 65 bucks against a dollar and say, " A crown against a penny has ceased. ' To me, it turns out that instead of a person on disability, with his specific supplements and age - related supplements, he intends to try to work and to see that his disk is the right to start working, he is offered the opportunity for everything to be taken away. No, the government's gonna take one third away, leave two thirds behind. What does that mean for most people? Simply that it doesn't pay them to go into this. They're not getting anything out of this. Some people get something out of this, and that's why I'll be supporting the case in a vote. Everything is good, no matter how small, for the survivors of a $22,000 bill. In a month, I'm not talking about half-heavy people getting 106,000 bucks. in a month that is nothing more than economic violence of the worst kind. Another factor that makes the situation even more pathetic is that in the original bill, the joints were infiltrated c and d in Article 1. Actually, the most pathetic part of this all was in the c-team. There it was to legalize housing problems. There are 2.5 billion of them, but no consultation was made with the Quantum Community on how to defend them and no consideration for the request that the sum be placed in a shallow pension, making it useful to all, including those who need the most. No, it wasn't, and it's just a wonder that they're going through these reduced habitats, which are estimated to be about 500 million a year to try to get back in and run into this 2.5 billion. It sucks to put a nickel in their pockets the worst put with one hand and then try to go with the other hand and take it away. It tells us that there is something wrong with the system that we've built up, and it also tells us that when such tricks are at the last minute in hopes that no one will notice them and this will go through, there is a full reason, and now it is confirmed, for desperate people to be suspicious of everything that comes from this government. The rest is simply not possible because this is going on and what is being done in this bill was not included in the consultation group on the review of social security. There was no evidence to indicate that this was a place for housing problems or accident insurance. They never talked about it. It sucks to know that some people are in the habit of trying to do this: We can do this, maybe we can get caught up in them. And who's getting married? The worst, those who have been fully pursuing a year by government, and who have not received the same elevations as others. You know, you sometimes get totally shocked at the misunderstanding of this nonsense because that's all we're talking about. Sixty-five dollars per dollar is cut off. Of the thousand, we're talking about $350. who will stay. It tells itself it's too small. For the worst, it's kind of sad, and you can also ask: What isn't in there? They will again continue to cut off all special property and pension savings. What's really remarkable about the impairments and the failings of a penny in a penny is that this is done for taxes. As a result, there is much greater impairment. First, there's a decrease, and then the taxes, which, of course, are completely ridiculous. This shows that the thought is to pay as little as possible to those who really need it. You know, sometimes you're gonna be a big mouth stop to the bullshit that can be in the business of all this stuff. The thing that beats me is that we were working for months in a group of discussions about reimbursement of public security to simplify the system, create a simple and beneficial system that is understood by everyone, and also put it into practice, as I understood, that people could live with dignity on what they are getting. Sadly, that was not the goal. I can tell by the way this bill is put in that, unfortunately, things always go the same way. In this context, we also need to understand, as I have previously noted, that everyone has experienced repeated corrections and increases, including the council, corrections for the collapse - except older citizens and disability. Those groups are sitting. We can see that, for example. that unemployment rates are about 280,000. Today, but most people are desperate at 247,000 K, i.e. 212,000. by tax. We may have forgotten that the members of Parliament increased from 550,000 to 1.1 million, ministers from 785,000 to 1.8 million, and prime ministers from 870 to over 2 million. The poor ones stayed behind. What is to be good in this bill is to be done for jobs from month to month. The first time I heard that, I thought, " Yeah, okay, now they're finally thinking about taking out the great impairment day when the impairment strikes and calculating real time benefits as they're supposed to. But it's not that good. It's confusing things. There'll still be an incredible complication. In most cases, you owe an insurance agency on July 1, but few people owe and get paid out. In most cases, people owe and are told to pay back in the months that followed. This is not being fixed. These 65 bucks per dollar are even more complicated. As I'm saying, it sucks that there's always a way of kicking the microchip financially. As I've also said, in this case, there's been two kicks, but don't do it the third time. And although it's very little, it's better than nothing, and that's why I will support this conclusion. However, I would have preferred, and, in effect, insisted that a dollar or two be put out of the way, and only immediately the next fall because everyone had made a promise. The promise is to be fulfilled. We have to look at it so that if we want to be trusted at a council meeting and if we want to practice the new tactics that are always meant to be done, we have to show it by action. Then we are under obligation to start with the one who is at fault. We are under obligation to make sure that they are able to live a decent life, not simply to starve. It tells itself that those who are under poor circumstances cannot live a decent life. They're basically starving. I hardly know how to describe it. It must be most pathetic for all of us that only for illness and who have lived for a while in another country, one can be punished so cruelly that there is no chance of living with any dignity. It tells us that we have an obligation to make minimal progress in this country, where everyone can live with dignity and not starve. We are under obligation to make sure once and for all that calculation is done. That's what we have to do and do. In the end, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, president of the welfare committee, for great work and good control of the welfare committee. I would have preferred that she continue with management there, but I'm afraid it won't be so, but I also thank a welfare committee for her well-worked work. Fortunately, the welfare committee took over and demanded that the c- and d- men not be inside and once they're out, I can give them a little support. If they had been inside, I would never have been able to support it because it is not possible to support handing those who have least by one hand and snatching with the other. We're not supposed to practice such a trade, and it's to our lasting shame that they've come in like this. We are to learn from it once and for all, showing respect for those who are sick and injured out there that such things never happen again and that we will see to it that they can get their benefits and live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u11	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in social help laws and social security laws, where we sometimes talk about reform and employment management. I'd like to pick up the thread for a while. A senator who spoke before let him go. It's very good to have a good time. A welfare committee noticed that two letters were to be slipped into the bill that is now being discussed. So there's special letters c and d, it's clearly necessary to discuss them better. As the review states, it seems that it did not have the opportunity to be involved in such a giant transformation at all. I think it's been given only two days to weigh and assess what lay ahead. It's true that this is a step, but I agree with the comments of the Director of the Health Committee, okay? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who says it's just a little chicken step. It is true that this is being thrown into the last days of Congress, and things are supposed to go very quickly through the council. Then it is once again the role of the welfare committee of this bill, and these letters, c and d, were taken out. To me, the motto of the Corporate Community is, "Nothing about us without us." Clearly, that has not been done at all, by the Minister of Social Affairs, by the Minister of Child Affairs, to consult with the Qualification Alliance. So it was not a question of whether it would be better to put a coin or a set money into a basic pension or whether it should go in another place. It was said that it would affect the way the funds would be taken care of, but then there was only one presentation in one brief meeting, and then the case was closed. It is also remarkable that these letters, c and d, were never introduced, they were never spoken to the Quantum Community. In effect, the letters were inserted into the bill with the aim of cutting even more disability money. It has also been criticized, and I'd like to agree, that although this reduced rate, now in 65 pennies, is a small step forward, the Micro-Communicator Alliance has repeatedly pointed out that no more is said. They are, in fact, left in the air, with no idea of what's going to happen. A group with which to simplify the system came to a conclusion where I think it's all too difficult for me to get rid of the system. And what's more: It's getting started on the wrong end. It's perfectly clear to me that first part-time work should have started. Then you could advertise - I've talked about this before - after people who have the ability to do that work. Thereafter, you could see the experience of this arrangement and decide how it would have been and then just advertise again. What I'm here to refer to are specific ideas about what was done with MPA. There was then an advertisement, and then there was a dinner or a certain number of people who were able to apply for additional personal assistance. And I can't see better than starting at that end. But the choice was to create a new complex level. The body of elders produced these suggestions, which in my mind are nothing more than an added complication of what is known today. Like what? paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen came in, no one seems to understand how the system works. At least not many people understand that. To go back into this c-line of bill, as far as it is concerned. Fortunately, a welfare committee was able to withdraw from the bill, which was designed to legalize the so - called housing impairment of a specific extension. It can be said that if it had gone through, it will be flogging to the highest level. Social Affairs and child - care minister would have to be able to repay the less-than-than -- it can never be said often enough that it is not right not to pay back any of this, during the ten years. It's amazing to know that the idea of paying back just four years is now. There's another question that's quite remarkable. If we go back to this C team that's about the habitat impairments, it was meant to be the best. Ministers to enter the bill, infiltrate it, factors that have not been discussed at all, and are not at all satisfied. It is claimed that there would have been disastrous consequences for many people. If I go over to the D-D bill for a second. A welfare committee was also able to cancel, and it was to slip in cards relating to accident insurance. In other words, there was to be another defector. That's why I mentioned earlier that the system was truly being complicated. And once again it is clear that there was supposed to be a legal basis for further delinquency. I'm only going to quote the final words of the Quantum Community's opinion, by permission of the President: ▪ From the above, you can see that BABI is not at peace with the approach presented here. Surely we would have liked to see consultations with disabled people as to how this money would have been most well spent. Then it is not to build trust in the government to see here embellished ordinances (see the c- and d- team) that have never been introduced or discussed with disabled people's interest groups, and to become as far as the best possible result, only to squeeze into microenergy pensioners. We hope that these specific requirements will be taken out of the bill so that they will not be laid down. That is exactly what happened. The welfare committee took steps to remove the two staffs at the highest level. Minister was going to slip through. It's quite amazing to come so late forward with this case and think it just rolls through here. But I signed the greater portion's opinion in advance. Of course, I am most responsible, since we try to reduce the decrease, there are 65 pennies against a dollar, but it is clear to my mind that a quarter of a dollar's motion was laid before the council is much better to eliminate the limit. One is that there was also supposed to be a factor in simplifying the system. I think that's the main thing. We have to start thinking about winding down the complexity of this system while people don't understand what's going on. Finally, I'm going to grab a little off here on the information of a insurance agency, which also came through. The welfare committee. While there are several indications from the insurance agency, finally there is no expense assessment in the bill's report. Minister, neither with regard to reforms nor any other expense. A insurance agency realizes that there will be a significant increase in cost. The changes in systems require an increase in costs and, of course, outdoors for employees who need to be hired because insurance agencies are aware that there is an increased misunderstanding in calculating.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u12	Mr. President. For example, the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has found a group ready to bear the greatest load ever to bear. The broad banks are the poorest of this country. The bill we are discussing, the change in social services and social security law, the best call it 65 pennies bill, because it is assumed that in this case, instead of cutting micromans against a cent, they should be cut by 65 dollars per cent. It seems that the Catherinen government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir has a problem with disability because we are standing here in the middle of June and being further affected than expected in the budgetary bill of the current year. In the first, there was a plan to lay 4 billion dollars. in starting the way of taking a dollar off. This figure was reduced to 2.9 billion in December and was said to be no problem because it would be a matter of months or months when it would be done between microbubbles and the government, and this money would be paid immediately. Now we're in the middle of June, and nothing's happened, exactly as everyone could have told himself to leave. You see, there was one requirement for the disability reforms that they deserve and deserve, for the government demanded that they accept the recording of the employment assessment without any basis for securing access to those who were making such evaluations to work at the proper time, i.e. partial jobs, jobs that were disposed of by those with impaired function. No such thing is available, only to the highest level. Social and child - care minister, as he is now, had come here and challenged the workforce to create an increase in the number of stock jobs. Of course, the government should take the lead, Mr. President, and create these jobs if it is to be expected to adopt a so - called work assessment. Before starting to consider that there is a time for activities that are suitable for those with impaired function. This has even been true. In fact, in many foreign countries, Germany, in various U.S. countries, the state's legalizing it to create and offer at any given time a certain part of the work that the State is advertising for people with impaired ability to work. If we had intended to take these things in the right order, we would have started to legalize that the state, rural society, and commercial markets provided an opportunity to expand the supply of these activities before a work record had been poured into the neck language of microbes. It has really been held as a hostage by microchip, with the ability to operate as a weapon. And it is natural, Mr. President, to treat people this way, especially the people who stand weak and most difficult to bear in hand to their heads. However, this challenge to the government was found, and it is very close to this group. Not enough of this, Mr. President, now that the council has passed the planned end of a few days, it just seems that there are matters that have been received a little discussion and that have caused a little action in Congress. I don't know where people would have a national financial program that isn't ready and that hasn't been submitted. Would anyone, then, have called the council back if it had stopped at the scheduled time? In itself, the government can thank even. The media for hosting several discussions that have resulted in the end of a few days, but in itself, they did not hurt the Senate because the discussion was the most common at the time of a regular assembly meeting, and I do not know that these discussions were really a distraction of anyone's sleep, except for those who were in that discussion. I think the government should be rather happy to have had this gallows-time to submit this financial program. Mr. President, I'm sorry to bring her here 15 minutes before three o'clock when it's time to complete the Senate and push her through the council at zero one, as we say, in no time. This is no practice, Mr. President, but unfortunately these are the practices of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, to bring in a large case of opinion that is to be consigned through the council with no discussion, as per the third energy package, but failed, men were going to court it through the council with no discussion. Similarly, I expect here to come--well, I don't know when, what day is today? Friday? Then financial plans will probably not be discussed until Tuesday. I believe that people are just going to get her through the same day, the day after, or something like that. This is not acceptable, Mr. President. So it is with this case, 65 bucks a bill, that it comes out and gets little or no discussion. V.E.G. A minister goes ahead inundation, and the chairman of the budget board denys it clearly. He denys that in the financial program only that from the original budget of financial management, an 8 billion dollars is to be withdrawn. in the next four years. They say, "No, they'll have it, though." When? That's not in the way. You say, "Don't hurt anyone." However, the map had been embezzled for 8 billion years. I've joined this seminary in the next four years, and it's now been retracted. The British banks are required to carry the cost because the last financial and financial policy of the government, a few months old, is ruined. It's not a microchip's fault. The highest group. Likely 24 months ago, the prime minister was determined not to be able to wait for justice, but he was standing there. Government seats are so soft that the attitude changed as soon as the government was settled. Then it turned out that, according to the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, he can now well wait for justice. It's different to me before, Mr. President, when people who have introduced themselves as spokesmen and advocates of those who have least and the weakest stand are now treating disability in this way. It is clear, and you have heard and read countless interviews, opinions, and articles from the leaders of the Quantum Community, in which they say that they are not going down in cooperation, or rather out of cooperation, with the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It'll even come. magazines in their review of the exact bill we are discussing right now. Maturity aid has also spoken in a similar way. There is no restraining, Mr. President, that, at the same time as almost nothing seems to be done to put a tie on a black economy, which advertises itself publicly every day but cannot be handled, can't be added to the character and equipment for the government tax manager and tax investigator who have both said that each employee they have now received, not quite indefinitely but up to a certain level, would probably come back with his salary tenfold in the form of a collection of state funds. Let us not forget, Mr. President, that 1% collection is 7 billion. I am notlittled by the tremendous numbers of the head of state tax and toll managers. It's supposed to cut deserts four years into the future by 8 billion. Already some 1,100 million men have been caring for this past year. They say it's done because there's no money. But it seems that they are not interested in collecting when paying dues. And now it's clear, Mr. President, that I'm not talking about a new tax system, we don't have a middle class member. We are only talking about improving collections when the stress is paying and paying taxes. If it was a matter of walking, you would have enough money in your box to avoid being cutting this group of people that are so sick with this 65 dollar bill. It's a shame. I think I kind of said that in 1st. that people might have chosen 65 bucks because they would be long enough to say 65 pennies against a dollar. However, two thirds in contrast with a crown may also be said, which is thin, and it tells exactly the same story. And there are no promises in this as to what will be done when the 65st bill has been approved and has become a law. What then? According to the 8 billionth report. the damage we were talking about earlier cannot be full of optimism, at least not about how they're angry with the next four years. It seems, as has been said at times previously from this public assembly, that the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir is going to let the weak stand and have remembered that they have waited for some time, at least for the next four years. We're pretty good. And then you say, " What will change after the four years? ' So, does a gold rush open in Iceland to solve any human problem? Or will it be announced after 20 months of election? So they'll be pulled out of the same rabbit hat that's been pushed into the hat now? Or are they going to be recorded and any new ones to dust people's eyes just before the next election? Somehow you've suspected it. But this case is really bad. It is possible that they will receive my support because they will go about adjusting the position of this group. It is not in itself impossible to resist the addition of the position of this group of sheep, but it is so ludicrously unfair that this group should now cut about 65 cents and not a cent of each dollar. Their injustice is bad, but worse is their righteousness, I think I must say so here. If the last record of the last budget and now of financial planning was forced to settle, I believe, during the last few hours of the Senate, they would have found other groups in the community, which would have been perhaps. in a better position to accept the burdens of this magnitude. But this group seems to be in such a position to contend with the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that they do not look any further. You can see that this is where a group can be cut off and that they can't build up the amount of money that can be set against financial programs during the last few hours of the council and that is done by men. Is it magnificent? No. Smart? Neither do. Is there any justice in this? Don't make any money. Therefore, Mr. President, I think it would be more difficult for men to take the case back to a committee between discussions and come back with a minimum proposal for a dollar in return to half a dollar, even if only. How much? One billion, I'd be holding fast. I can be corrected if I'm wrong, but I don't think that's a higher amount. Then perhaps it could be said that the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was extending an act of reconciliation to this group. Then perhaps it could be said that the government was meeting this group, and with good will it could be said that the throne of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir guaranteed that the weakest people who have least had to wait longer than the most urgent need for justice. But I'm not optimistic about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words about this matter and the situation in general in the community. I feel very sad about the situation in this country when it comes to putting Kingdom interests first in behalf of this group. First, there are more than 20,000 people in the situation of disability or disability in Iceland, and for far too long this group has been left behind. He was left behind during his economic growth, and now it appears that he too will be left behind during the contract. This is completely unacceptable, Mr. President. Iceland is the tenth richest country in the world, and there is absolutely no need to act in the way that we do. The government takes a step when it comes to subtracting a so - called crown from a coin that all classes have repeatedly said they want to get rid of, all classes, especially the government groups. I wondered why we cannot agree to take the step to the full and to cancel the so - called dollar in return for a single step. The numbers don't lie, and neither do the Excels papers. We see in the government budget that was introduced in March. increased in terms of disability was expected to be about 4 billion, which is approximately one third of what it costs to cut off a dollar back on the loan. Then we'll have the government party's proposals, the left green, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, at a meeting of the legal committees. Friday, in which the DODs of these government groups come under the financial programme that these groups themselves submitted to was only two months into. It presents a lot of political news, for it seems that a person of all groups is to take on the biggest jam in the modern - day Icelandic economy. The cost of disability is to be rounded up by about 8 billion dollars. All of them for the next five years. Of course, this group will experience it. It's an empty tar that you've heard some of the government members talk about, that this group will not feel it, even if it receives 8 billion dollars. less than the next five years combined but lasting only two months ago. Mr. President, there's an incredible priorities here in this way. To add this into a context, the cutdown in budgets is ten times higher than the canning done by the Supreme Government to make changes to the government groups. It's amazing. I've been telling you very clearly, and we in the United States, that we are supposed to protect the welfare system and the schools. We see that not just disabilityrs should be hit in these modifications. It is also innovation, 3 billion environmental, 1.4 billion, high school, 1.8 billion, nursing homes get a direct reduction, less 2024 than 2019, and the hospital service receives 4.7 billion dollars. reduction combined for the next five years in changing the budget from a financial agenda. Health and expert services get 2 billion bucks. decrease. It's a black tablet, Mr. President, the government's arrangement for making changes to their own financial plans. I've been flogging this case all week, and I really hope, because the case is still under discussion by a financial committee, that you can see you, and that you don't follow these changes, but you can spare these groups as we should. At the same time, it was the priority of this government to lower the fishing expenditures, the expenses that are in nature involved in the exporting of one of the most productive fishing grounds on earth. The cost of fishing has been dropped to the extent that they are approaching the tobacco tax, the tax we place on cigarettes as 8◯9% of the nation smokes. What kind of politics is this? Only one year ago, the government groups were going to drive through the council a three billion fishing fees. The government's post stopped at the time, but the groups then reached the decline. A fall. So you might ask, is there really any reason to have the lowest capital capital tax in all the North countries at the same time that we're going through a recession in the economy? Also: To reduce a so - called bank tax by 8 billion dollars is political priorities.? I would point to other means than to go to this evil cuts through the government's transition. We don't have to go that way, Mr. President. These are evil suggestions, this is evil politics and voters of the left green, forwarding party cannot sit at home and agree with the priorities of this government. This is a disgrace, Mr. President. We're supposed to do much better here and go on the road, not backwards. But this government seems to be stuck in reverse on this matter, as does so many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u14	Borist has a letter from the acting council leader to the 7th. Smoke. n., Þorsteinn Víglundsson, can't attend in the near future. So it's requested that this afternoon Jarþrúður take Ásmundsdóttur place at the General Assembly, a 3rd Lippétte, in the district. Guards up above the list have been calling incursion. At the request of the President, the national government has assembled and issued a ballot for Ásmundsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u15	A respectable president. As noted in the case of the president, a board of directors and surveillance committee has assembled to review the Jarþrúður of Ásmundsdóttir's Ásmundsdóttir, the 3rd deputy council member of the Smoke. n., from the national government. In agreement with the Commission, they failed to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u16	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Ásmund's Jarþrúður, Ásmundsdóttir's daughter, who has not taken her place before at the General Assembly, must sign her vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u17	Ásmundsdóttir's Jarþrúður, Ásmundsdóttir, has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u18	Madam President. I hereby recommend a panel of bill reviews and reviews. This is Congress Report No. 1827, section 312. The bill suggests that a new total law on revisions will be applied as the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2014/56, on the change of Directive 43/2006, on legal reviews of annual accounts and balance accounts, and on the other hand, the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council No. 537/2014, a review of national-related units, as reflected in the EEA Convention. He's at VIII. The section of the bill discusses monitoring of accountants and accountants and will include the SEC, as well as its reviews. Thirty-three. The bill. According to current legal laws on accountants, No. 79/2008, has an independent water management committee, accountant's Council, monitoring that accountants and accountants expel their jobs in accordance with the laws of the law. On the basis of the law, the Ministers shall order five men in the legal hearing; two according to the motion of a state of legal accountants, one by the appointing of the Council of the Transition of Iceland, and two without any appointment, and one of them shall be president. The role and order of the Commission is in accordance with the Directive 2006/3/43/EC prior to the conversion of the Council by Directive 2014/56/EU to be implemented by the bill. The new directive will include The change in the need for reviewers with effective rights is no longer allowed to be the head of the Rapporteur or to come up with decisions to monitor accountants and accountants. Since two accountants sit in the Ministry of Review, they cannot care for their role unchanged. The same applies to monitoring of Member States who are reviewing socially related units, such as IX. section of the bill. Because of this, in the bill, the role of the SEC is now being hidden. However, the FEC presented serious comments about the Agency's having such a surveillance of accountants. Pressure on the Agency would already be very much due to the proposed fusion of Iceland's Federal Bank and its implementation of Directive 2014/59/ESB (BRRD) and the establishment of a special administration, a source of authority, within the SEC. There was no synergistic effect on the Agency's taking on a follow-up project under the bill. Rather, it was a fundamental change in the function of the Agency, which was away from the nuclear functions that would carry out the risk of conflict of interest. The primary objective of the FDA was to achieve financial and financial stability health and to increase the aims of prices and financial control, etc. After we're together with the Secret Bank, they'll all be together. Monitoring the revised tools for employment in general, but not in the financial system only. The Committee sought the Ministry's response to these comments from the FEC and received a memo that listed four benefits of managing the activities of accountants and accountants. There were four suggestions, as previously said. First of all, it would be conducted at the FEC as suggested by the bill, secondly, that the surveillance would be done by the head of the state tax, third of which it would be with an independent administrative committee, such as the Commission's Commission, and fourth, that there would be a surveillance of a special agency to be established and carried out on all the business projects of the Ministry, including a follow-up of accountants. In view of the circumstances that had come up, the third option would be best, i.e. of an independent administrative committee. The Commission sought the opinion of a legal accountant and a legal accountant's Council of Review on these advantages that the Ministry pointed out. In reply to the Department of Reviews, it was observed that the Council considered it best to monitor accountants at a state-of-the-art institution that had funding and authority to handle the project adequately. If this were not possible, the monitoring would now emphasize that the implementation of Directive 56/2014 and Regulation No. 537 of that same year would be a different solution. Of the advantages mentioned in the Ministry's memo, it would be the most realistic solution to hide the independent administrative committee. The Department of Review pointed out that it did not need to make very important changes, but it already had two accountants in it. In response to a legal accountant's inquiry, it was observed that in view of the decision to aim for the unity of UNECE and the Federal Bank, it appeared that the surveillance would not be set up by the FDA. The Ministry's conclusions would need to be considered that the independent administrative committee would handle the surveillance as a complete temporary solution. The firm's position would be that the observation would be best placed in a special observation facility, in line with the fourth advantage mentioned in the Ministry memo. Therefore, to make it clear that the surveillance would be established by an independent administrative committee for temporary purposes and that a government working group would be appointed to work on a permanent solution to the development of the surveillance of a special surveillance agency. The Society would be willing to participate in that work. It should be noted that the greater part has an understanding of these views of the UN that it is inappropriate to hide the Agency from other tasks that are already inadmissible to the Agency. The more part is aware that, after the agreement that has been declared, the only practical option, which does not include the continuation of the products planned to introduce the bill, is to hide the Commission's Commission of reviews and revisions under the bill as well as the review of ECU units. To this end, the more part contributes to the appropriate changes to the bill as stated in the Committee. The majority stress that the arrangement proposed here is provisional until permanent implementation of follow-up for reviews and reviewers will be implemented. The majority agree with the motion made by the legal accountants to set up a working group for such a solution. This work will be reviewed by the fourth choice listed in the Ministry's memo on the possible implementation of the surveillance process and turned to the establishment of the new agency, which all the business projects were carried out by the Ministry, including monitoring of accountants. Madam President. The commission then explains other changes that the greater part suggests, and I don't see reason to cross any more here, but to refer to the committee's opinion. In addition, there are several other technical adjustments to a special Senate document. Under the heading of this magazine, which stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. And the residue of Brazer the son of Níelsson, and Brutti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u19	Madam President. Thank you. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee for this fine speech. But now I'd like to ask, because I don't have a place on this committee, but I've heard recently that the legal accountants with decades of experience and unscrupulous record have become uncomfortable and distrusted over the regulations set in place, including the rules that have been established. by the order of the Qualification Council. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether or not anything has been done to meet the group that cannot handle it, because of the small size of the organisation's enterprises, to hire members, within parentheses, or in petals, or to recognizable or recognized by these rules. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether something was done to meet this group, which is quite large, and mostly services to smaller companies, business people, and individuals just by themselves. It is quite clear that if these smaller people had to submit to these rules completely, their service would be the expensive thing if they were not on the range of smaller parties, such as individuals, partners, and smaller companies, to receive this service or to take advantage of it. I'd like to ask you what. The senator: Has anything been done to consider the rights and rights of these individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u20	Madam President. I was trying to save some time by not reading all the committee opinions. But if you do. A senator would have read all the details of the committee's opinion if he had received the answer to his question. I'm just gonna read the suspense because of the decision of the accountant: It is suggested that the decision of the head of the Commission on the granting and staging of the work rights of accountants and the review of companies will be charged with the Ministry. This is a change from the bill to a range of 38. to the decisions made by the F.I.S.H. - now a legal body of accountants as a change - do not sit in charge. So, in the greater part, we are simply responding to this concern. A senator, by making decisions by the Department of Reviews, would be charged with the Ministry so that at least a person has at least one person. That's it. It is good for men to read the entire committee opinion and perhaps find answers to further questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u21	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for increasing my laziness by presenting what I asked. As I said, I'm not a member of this committee, and therefore I don't have a very particular concern, and it wasn't really until I realized that it was really on the agenda to pay off that I was reminded of the situation, the situation in which this group of people I was talking about earlier has been put in. The Senator may find out as much as he wants me to have not read it to the end. However, I know how it is that these agents have been advised to go to the Ministry for their release. It's a rumor, isn't it? A senator has not been very successful. It hasn't been slow, or I'm sorry, it hasn't worked very fast, I meant to say. They have not received clear and material answers in their business dealings with the Ministry about this very reason. So if it's so cool. A financial and business committee or more of it has come down to some plan that works for this group that I was discussing right now, I'm naturally happy to hear it. But I really just want to get some assurance. Hadn't read all the committees, like the cot. A senator pointed out, would I just like to be convinced that there is a way to work for this group that, as I said before, has been inextricably involved, decades of experience, and has now come into play with the color of those who would least be in this business. So I just want to pray. A senator to further explain to me how their position is guaranteed by this bill as it seems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u22	Madam President. Of course, now I'm neither me nor what. A senator in a position to publish certain guarantees that everything will work out exactly as you would like to see. However, it is to ensure that a person can enter the administrative district because of the findings of the administrative committee. Of course, if the Ministry does not carry out the matter, if it does not solve its task under the administration, then there is no other way, most likely, than the courts. So about accountants: So that's how many other things we're dealing with here at the council and in the community. Hv. A senator must realize that such guarantees are bad. A senator is asking that I be granted when I am not able to provide, as it were. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u23	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech and his review. I kind of, let's say, one question to the question. A senator with regard to re-education. I reviewed the reviews at the bill, and I saw concern over people because there are time-consuming and costly requirements for re-education, without any demands on what to return it to be given, the person says here in one application, by permission of the president. It's said that these terms need to be more defined. I would have liked to hear from what. A senator in this regard. Here, for example, it is very natural to have this re-education carried out by a well - established educational institution. The bill then suggests to increase expenses due to the occasional quality monitoring of accountants and to collect them on interimbursed incomes to ensure that they are ablation of the Rapporteurs and to ensure that it is a non-important influence from accountants and accountants' companies. I wanted to get some additional definitions of this in the middle of nowhere. A senator, i.e. The re-education and then the expenses caused by quality control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u24	Madam President. There are, I suppose, not terribly many professions, except for those in the health system, who place as much emphasis on reeducation as for accountants. Reeducation by accountants is a course of education at established university institutions, as well as at conferences and seminars on revisions, new ideas, and mainly new ones, which are basically almost constantly being put together, here and in other countries, and people are comparing their books from one country to another. I don't have any memory to say this. A senator is quoting. But I can assure you what. Of course, it is reasonable for a member of the body to make certain demands that accountants who are legally legalized and who give themselves to be legally validated accountants in a certain way and that they are being observed. I think it's only natural that when you ask someone to get the job term legalized accountant - legally valid - there are certain requirements. The requirement changes with e.g. The rules and laws change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u25	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The review I quoted here is from Gunnar Þór Ásgeirsson, a legal accountant. Now it's not that I'm criticizing that re-education should be there, except so, it's naturally absolutely necessary, though. Senator. What I wanted to get out here is that there's a lot more criticism of this bill that it's the least, and it needs to be defined. That was the point I was witnessing to. But I also just wanted to come up with what is stated in another review, from the Einar S. Half Hálfdánarson son, a legal accountant, who says that it is inappropriate to put down the term legal accountant, because it underlines the importance of the work to revise that he has a validation for the job. I'd like to agree with that. In addition, the client agrees with what I mentioned earlier on the matter of reeducation, that it is unremarkable. So here, we have two reviews where we're criticizing the re-education as a certainty. In case of a moment. A senator might consider this to be a little more specific. Then, with the vow, why are these changes being made? That is exactly what this party here says that everywhere he knows is considered the importance of the work by an accountant to have a legalization to the office, to which he is legally appointed. [[The president calls.]] I wholeheartedly agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u26	Madam President. The first thing I didn't say was, "I don't know." A senator about the cost of observation. I think we can agree that it is normal for a surveillance party, in this case accountants, to pay for the cost involved. Of course, it should be the principle, just as banks should pay for the cost of monitoring their activities. That's how I think it's the principle that the public or other people who are really not involved. I hope we what we're doing. A senator named Birgir Þórarinsson can agree that the details of the costs of a surveillance party are to be met. The problem faced by the committee was that it did not work out in such a way that the SEC would monitor the activities of accountants and accountants. I think everyone was there because they weren't there. There was a lot of discussion about the committee's options. One of the things I personally liked was to go to the governor of the tax and give him or the company file to the governor of the project. The conclusion, however, was that of going to a legal hearing and assigning it to them. But I'm stressing that this is preliminary measures to ensure that we can enforce the Regulation on action and that the reviewers themselves are putting the emphasis on being put into action so that they can work in the same environment in Iceland and elsewhere in Europe. It is of utmost importance to accountants to see that this is done. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate: We'll be in the coming winter, Madam President, if you give me a little leeway, quite definitely need to record it for who will permanently monitor the accountants. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u27	Madam President. The person here would not speak in this matter, but the words I used were here at the moment. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has caused me to comment on the bill. So a review from the legal accountant's Society, by permission of the president, suggests: ... that the translation of the Regulation [537/2014] was not used in the vocabulary and language practices used in the revision class and is therefore often difficult to grasp except by looking up the original text. FLE believes this is shocking and feels that it is better to suggest the use of words presented by the accountants in the outline of the translation. Actually, it's not quite new because I'm familiar with the fact that this Regulation was not well translated for a long time. However, as I said before, the requirements were specifically for my accounting firm, based on a Regulation that had been published somewhere abroad but was not available in Icelandic, however, they were to follow up on this. It's natural to be embarrassed. But there is something else that comes to the subject that I discussed earlier. Of course, the work of accountants, legal accountants, is very important, and I think careful revision and careful interpretation procedures are necessary. We got it this way, as one says, right in the face of a collapse that the matter had not been in the process and not in the sight of us as best chosen. And that is why it would have been normal, and it would have been necessary to apply the rules and laws that apply to these activities, so, of course, it is a cause for rejoicing. But I want to move one thing, that's 18. Which is on page 18. 9, with the permission of the president, who is spoken of a quality system. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Research companies and accountants shall operate in accordance with formal quality systems. A formal quality system shall include the rules on the responsibility of the management of quality reviews, relevant ethical rules, agreements and continued agreements of clients and accountants, regulations on recruiting in the review team, reviews and regulations on the follow-up and keeping of the quality system. The Management of an accountant's enterprise shall be responsible for the quality system and the system shall be assessed annually. Results from assessments and proposed changes in the system should be documented. (7) This principle, e.g., of this quality system, is very burdensome for smaller companies, of which there have been examples. We've had here, as I said, full of highly qualified individuals who have run a revised service. It is impossible for them to pick up a quality system or something like this, so after reading this bill, and after listening to a speech each. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, I cannot protect myself from the thought that the interests and circumstances of these small companies, which are engaged in a reexamination. Hv. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, spoke earlier, which actually led me into this talk, i.e. that neither he nor I could make sure that the matter was in a certain way. This is just an elder's disagreement because the procedure at the Council is to make sure that the legal arrangements take place in such a way that a person can be reasonably safe about his share. Hv. A senator who has left the scene, unfortunately, listed the ways in which an individual would be able to achieve his rights in a small accounting firm, i.e. ... theexperienceofthe administration. This is below all caves because we are to proceed in such a way at the General Assembly that it as individuals and small companies and businesses over their heads has to attend to the government as simple, inexpensive and clear. This bill does nothing of it, not anything. And if there's any problem, all you can do is sue. It's easy to say. If people are unhappy with what we're doing at the Generals then they can only sue. Of course, we're supposed to take care of things like this, not just this case, but all of it - I've been having a little discussion of these past few days, because things have been piled up here at the Council for a very little talk - that we'll be a pleasure. Sadly, as the examples prove, it has been customary that, at certain intervals, the legal process here must be adopted, either after a short or long time, because the law fails. Many times in it are wrongs because of it, and I'd like to say this, that all those involved in the law have not been adequately consulted. This seems to have been the case with the largest and major. If this was to be considered in another article, should we run the fishing policy so that we would just talk to the biggest companies in the fishing road, top ten, and let the other one calm? Is that how it is? Shouldn't we consult with everyone? I think this, Madam President, is kind of a bigger case than you can see at first sight. From what's presented here, I can't see, and now I've taken advice. The head of the Economic and Business Committee and speed-read the data available here so that he doesn't have to chew it in my mouth, that anything I was talking about earlier doesn't make a thing of any kind. It has in itself puzzled me over the past few years because I know the struggle between this small accountant's review of both the so-called revision Council and the Ministry, i.e. Ministry of industrial and tourism and all that. And I know that only because those who have been working in this business have even come to me for help because the Ministry has not spoken of the Board of Review, in itself has done this group of oppression, pure oppression. As a result, I am no better than that we are still, in this matter, to make laws without consulting the whole group that are supposed to follow these laws. So I say again: I think this bill is something that if it were a fishing bill, it would have been spoken to the 10 biggest companies and the others left their sea in the absolute sense. And that's a problem, Madam President. Right now, we're probably in the last few hours of this council unless there's something that we can't see about, and we're starting to have a clear view of what they're doing, and we're not piled up here in this council at the last minute, something that needs more coverage. This case is definitely one of them. So I would feel strongly that this case would go back to a panel of discussions so that the situation of the smaller companies with a long working age could be established, that it would be guaranteed to meet this group, because it is not possible for small companies, individuals, even smaller rural groups, to hire accountants who are involved in these laws. And what will we get in return, Madam President? Yes, we get accounting firms, with great respect for them, because they don't have a legitimate education but they have a review of even small and medium-sized companies because they can't afford to hire men and companies who work under the law or the bill we put here. I think it's perfectly normal and one Mass worth that the bill is, between 2 and 3. .....to send back to the Economic and Business Committee where men make sure that the factors I have listed above have been taken to consideration in a way that is sufficient and that we do not have this legal requirement to push people who have worked in this field for decades with an unscrupulous career and have spent all their time doing this work faithfully. If so, it is a shocking message. I reiterate, Mrs. President, that I encourage this matter to be followed by this discussion sent back to the Economic and Business Committee for further consideration, so that we, who have not been over this matter since the beginning, can be sure that we are not taking the wrong steps or making yet another mistake at the council as I believe there is a danger that we agree to this bill as it seems now. It wasn't a matter I was going to come up here in, but my language with what I said. The head of the Economic and Business Committee forced me to come up here and speak for the individuals I've made here as a subject, i.e. These smaller accountants who have worked hard and faithfully and can be clean for decades. This bill should not impair their rights or their survival options.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u28	Madam President. I'm not gonna keep this far. A fine speech. paritaprevir The son of Þorsteinn, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, led me to think of reasons to come up here and say a few words about the course of this case and, at the same time, agree to his request that the matter be returned to the committee and that the points should be answered. A candidate in his speech will be examined from there for discussion. This is one of the things that may not attract as much attention as they might seem technically. As a result, we may be inclined to rely on information from the system on how to react. This is especially common with extramarital induction cases. In this regard, all too often it has been that humans have simply chosen the simpler option, that they should be told what things need to be. The result of this too often has also been to make regulations and laws in Iceland more complex, more challenging for those who have to work by them. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Sæmundsson mentioned in his talk the position of the small accounting companies and the dictators. It is just that such ones often end up having one worst outcome. However, large companies are able to adapt to an ever more complex system of action and respond to it. Of course, they can also finance such reactions much better. They even have whole law departments and other staff who can respond to ever greater legalization and ever more complex regulations, while the dictators do not have anything like it. What a shame it would be if the independent working parties in this field did not consider themselves a basis for their activities, whether it is a firm or a company of some people. Because that's right. paritaprevir Sæmundsson went over here: Such companies play an extremely important role for a variety of small business in society, even communities, as shown in the case of the two. Senator. In general, I think the lawgiver needs to think much more about how much less severe these ever-growing complications of legalization of my sources. Of course, this is not limited to revisions or those working in related areas but, in reality, all smaller companies of the country live with more and more burdensome regulations. I hope in some way we can change our practice, change how we approach these laws, especially those sent from outside, with the aim of making less companies easier to work, and thus, of course, improving innovation. A major obstacle to innovation is the jungle of regulations and laws to those starting a new business. If we do not react to this trend, we will look forward to continuing compression, not just in this area, but in so many areas of employment. But my main business up here in this speech was to respond to any comment. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, who agrees with his challenge for the subject to go back to the topic of conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u29	Madam President. Sadly, only one talk about this big issue with the rest of the year gave me the opportunity to give. In view of the fact that they were endeavoring to pay for action that, of course, is far beyond their schedule. As a result, I want to take this opportunity here in 3rd. to continue with the passage I began at 2nd. I'm going to start by doing a quick trace of what I came into 2nd. to put things in perspective with what follows. I then pointed out that it is all too common for people to get involved with big and complex subjects to find what I think I called virtual solutions. I've even seemed to be a correlation between a much larger one, at least the more they are in the discussion, the greater the tendency to react with virtual solutions, at least with solutions that may appear more visible than other solutions that may be more complex and less pronounced. With such extensive coverage as the recent climate, this will be particularly evident in actions that may even be very questionable and may even have negative effects. I mentioned, for example, the most important point that seems to be laid on shoveling in ditches without any evidence of its success. I also began to feel that such a reaction is overlooked what really works. In the years to come, the world's demand for energy will continue to increase. It's increased by about Of course, 2% a year for some 40 years, which is enormous, and looks like it will be the case. Ideally, human beings will respond to this increased energy demand solely by energy sources defined as renewable energy sources will simply not meet the increased demand. It will mean that you will continue to be buried in coal and burned up to produce energy. As a result of reducing carbon dioxide in energy production, it is the most widely released method of greenhouse gases. I spoke to the United States of America in this relationship. They have been able to reduce substantially the emissions of greenhouse gases, especially by progressively transporting energy production from coal incineration to gas incineration. Such measures must take into account the overall picture and the long term outcome of the procedure. I also wanted to mention specifically, to put in context how difficult it is to meet the increasing demand for energy, that if people were to meet the demand only with windmills that are now in fashion, they would have to set up in one year as many windmills as they had set up between 2000 and 2014 and they would cover areas as big as Britain; Britain and Ireland combined. In fact, this is according to figures from scholar Ridley Ridley 2014. We'll see, Madam President, that it's not realistic. There is another matter: There is also doubt about the true environmental wind mills, produced from steel and concrete, produced in China by large quantities of coal. Then, in many climate meetings around the world, including Davos, Switzerland, there are those who meet with various business and political leaders and other factors recently to discuss the world's problems with increasing greenhouse gas emissions. There were over 1,600 private jets in Davos. Apparently, it was difficult to get the fleet all settled at the Zürich airport, and they had to land elsewhere. Sadly, all of this is too vivid to illustrate how often the superficial discussion of this group of subjects is. The UN regularly conducts climate conferences, and it is interesting to see poles on the increase in the number of participants in these conferences from one conference to the next and are now far more than they were in previous conferences. Almost all these people come by flight. In addition, these things need to be put in context, as do other work carried out by society. It was interesting to see in the news recently that the secretary of finance in Britain felt that the policy that has been marketd in Britain to respond to greenhouse gas emissions would cost the community 1,000 billion pounds (U.S.) - some 1 60,000 billion dollars. It came with the story that it would inevitably mean that there would be a need to save somewhere else, including the need to save. in the health care sector. Worse still, there is serious doubt as to how successful the operation will be, for all too often they are just virtual surgery. It has been noted that, according to figures from the UN database itself, the Paris meeting will, unfortunately, have little effect on greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, even if the agreement would be followed. All too often such agreements are not followed, and it may be said that up to now it was an exception if humans had made a promise. Why am I firing this? Yes, because if we are serious about dealing with the climate, we need to evaluate what is most successful. One of the factors that can make a big difference in the coming years and decades is incineration, as much as it seems. Incineration of municipal waste has the most environmentally-friendly methods to produce energy for greenhouse gas emissions and perhaps other pollution. The plastic has been the main problem, and plastics are very much discussed with environmental policies. It has now been developed to burn plastics in a comparable environmentally appropriate way to natural gas, in a way that is in a way that has first turned plastic into gas and then used for energy production. This is an example of a solution that can produce a variety of results, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy production but at the same time helps to deal with the problems of plastic pollution, especially in the ocean, and with the problems of many countries facing waste disposal. As we expect, garbage dumps are expected to have significant amounts of greenhouse gases. So what I propose, Madam President, and hope to be viewed as my main message here, is that we look to the facts, look to the overall effect in the long term, and consider science to the solution of this immense subject. At the same time, traditional measures such as land healing and forestry are extremely important. I wanted to see a lot more money running into that lawsuit party in Iceland, but the main thing is that the forests that bind up most of greenhouse gases are not thrown away in large amounts at the same time, as unfortunately it is, especially in South America. Will the destruction of the South American rain forests continue at the same rate we've seen in recent years, causing more damage in the climate than most. I'm not sure that it's useful in this big subject simply to change the usage of words. This may be another example of how often and often a superficial discussion is presented. It applies not only to this party but to too many lawsuits today, to invent new terms for things, and to conclude that with some success it is, to form talking about climate disasters. It is also not good to indicate that the effect is different from what it really is. In recent decades, we have seen that there have been strong statements that have not been followed. Why am I concerned? Because this may lead to a gradual decrease in the belief that the problem is at hand. There have also been reports of great increases in storms and storms, such as warming or greenhouse gas emissions. This doesn't go through any closer inspections. However, the damage caused by such disasters has increased greatly since the past few decades, but most important is that it has been built so much in the most prevalent areas of weather. I only mention one example, Florida, U.S.A., and the states around the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, there has been an increase in the incidence of these tornados. This does not change the fact that the problem must be taken into consideration, and it must be solved with the help of science and facts. As the demand for energy continues to increase over a predictable future, and, of course, it has increased dramatically in countries that have grown at all rates, such as China and India, we need in the United Nations scene and in other international cooperation to reach an agreement that takes into account the real facts and measures that have failed to produce real results. I would like to reiterate what I had mentioned in 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um, that Iceland certainly does its part, even though we keep trying to do better. In Iceland, an aluminium releases a tenth of what such production would release in China. So only with that aluminium production and renewable environmental energy in Iceland can it be said that we already contribute much more fully, but we can do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u30	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson's Davíð over his talk, but there are several points that I hope to find answers to. I agree with what happened. In his talk about the need for real action, a senator said not to make endless declarations, word suicides, order groups, etc. I agree fully with him on that subject and have previously said, both in the public address and in other places, that we need to engage in serious surgery. At the same time, I agree with him that most likely recently in Iceland, we have overemphasized the recovery of wetlands in measures to combat climate change at once, as it were. A senator rightly mentioned, we do not have real evidence of exactly what it will bring us in this vital struggle. But I want answers from what? A senator of how he envisions procedures that are exactly the kind of action he here mentions, serious action that would produce real results. It would be interesting to hear suggestions and speculations. A senator in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u31	Madam President. Thank you for asking. I can give you a few examples. I think Iceland and I, like I only came in earlier, should place a big increase in agricultural and forestry. And speaking of the wetlands, although the numbers are very high, I see, and I think it's undisputed, that if a forest was planted in the land that has been dried, without me saying that it should do it everywhere, it would have a hell of a positive effect than shoveling into the ditch and soaking back into the soil. One is the production of energy that we enjoy here in Iceland. I think it would improve if we were to produce more renewable environmental energy, that we took advantage of the opportunities this country offers. True, it will always be subject to assessment on a case by case basis, for I will admit that there is a price for sacrifice to nature on all activation projects. However, I believe there are still promising advantages to increase the production of environmental energy, and I hope to use it for the production of environmentally friendly objects such as aluminium, which is, of course, a very environmentally friendly metal; without, without which I say, that I am saying that I am saying that I am not going to have more aluminium production. There are, however, other factors that could be used for pure Icelandic energy. Then we should do more than make use of our own production, especially in the United States, food production. The transport of food between countries and the methods used in agriculture in many countries has a major impact on greenhouse gas emissions. Eating more of a wholesome Icelandic meal, produced in the Icelandic countryside, hopefully by environmentally friendly means, would have much to say right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u32	Madam President. Yes, I would agree with that. A senator on food production here in Iceland. We need to use this clean energy and the resources here for domestic food production. I have high hopes that the environmental issues will be made clear in a new food policy we wait for from the highest level. Agricultural and marine rights minister. I don't agree with him that the force is the most environmentally friendly product of our most efficient resources. And what's wrong. A senator spoke of, that we should produce more environmental energy, and is likely to indicate that we need more power: I'm just hoping that. A senator is thus referring to the use of this clean energy in a environmentally friendly manner. In his speech, he said that it was not good to indicate that the impact of climate change is different from what it is in real life, and I would like to ask him to explain these words further. We see clear evidence, and research and statistics indicate that we are in the midst of disasters, such as Halldór Þorgeirsson and others who have worked on the UN climate targets for years have said publicly, we are in the middle of a disaster when it comes to climate change impacts. I'd like to get an explanation for what. A senator says that the effect is different, but the effect is often found. I think we don't agree, either me or the other. A senator, because I think that the effect has just come out and will harden us than we have seen before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u33	Madam President. First, to be clear, I take my heart full with my mouth. A senator on the use of energy; that we focus on trying to focus it on production which can help with the overall picture I made as a subject of my speech. I hear what you're saying. A senator only disagrees with me about the process, but I would like to remind you that this is a light metal that saves emissions from automobiles and airplanes and other items that are used in which an aluminium can be recycled almost indefinitely. But I'm going to ask you a question. It is true that the effects of climate change are indeed being seen. Whether the weather here outside the window is to some extent the impact of climate change can be wondered. However, I have found too much tendency - and perhaps it is a result of the magnitude of this matter, a case that most people are interested in or concerned about - to apply the impact of climate change on things that do not necessarily apply and even, as I mentioned as an example in my speech just before, to state statements that do not meet a closer opinion, to make the rise of violent storms or tornados very significantly since some decades ago. The primary reason why I don't start picking too many things without being able to show that there is a direct impact of climate change is that the danger is that since the effects are very real, the credibility is diminished, that humans teach climate change about things where they may not be explained. But I come back to what I did to the main theme of my speech. It is science, and we need to be able to trust it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u34	Mr. President. I'm just going to go back to my talk on this important subject that concerns all of us and has received much attention, as we have seen, because of many natural disasters that are thought to be the result of climate change. In the beginning, Mr. President, I would like to introduce only what was very interesting to me, which was in the news not so long ago, i.e. that climate and their discussions are worrying children. I believe that this trend and the recent discussion have been investigated in this country that children are concerned about this development and the discussion that has taken place. The question, then, is whether it is reasonable to take care of such matters. I don't know exactly what it is, but I'm sure these topics are discussed in elementary schools and high schools. But the basis for that instruction is a question. Now a long list of scientists, for example, is available. The climate change we now experience is due to natural causes. There is also a long list of scientists who believe that the influence of man on climate change cannot be accurately predicted, and there is also a long list of scientists who believe that there are unknown reasons for these climate changes. I'm simply saying that in this discussion, especially within the school system, it is important that all of these factors be examined, all evidence for the reasons that global temperatures have gone up and gone up quite quickly over the past 30 years. Although it may not have increased much in the past 100 years, it is primarily during the past 30 years that I understand that the temperature on earth has increased so much that it is worrying. I mention it because I find it a concern to know that children are concerned about this matter. Good education, criticism, and responsibility are needed when we discuss these matters with politicians. But what I wanted to come on a little bit and I couldn't finish my coverage here last time is the tax returns, i.e. The carbon tax, and how much it has risen in the history of this government. It reminds me that these budgets are estimated to be 5.9 billion in the income of the carbon, but only part of it runs to action on climate issues. What I have felt was lacking in the tax returns and counterweight measures, though it is clear that the tax is reducing the energy of the economy and that the competitiveness of companies is still planning to raise this tax. The government still has plans for that. We can remind you that the carbon bill is now about 11 k. Every quart of gasoline and less than 13 taps. Each litre of diesel. I think I'm right to claim that about 90% of these taxes paid car owners. But I think it's only less than 10% of what they're causing from the pollution they're trying to prevent. This is something to consider, Mr. President. But surely ideologies are noble, and the matter is large and must have a plan for it. That's exactly what we're talking about here. But, in my opinion, there is a need to give good consideration to the purpose, basis, and goal of the tax system, especially who are taxpaying and who are not taxpaying. The aim of the expenditure is to reduce emissions without being undermined by the competitiveness of the economy. The same should be true in this country, but in other countries other taxes have been declined against the price or were given by other taxes. That's not why we're going here. Iceland is, for example. One State in Europe where the fishing fleet has no access to or is fortified with fuel taxes. It reduces natural competitiveness. Iceland's Office has researched the home expenses. It shows that fuel use is somewhat larger in rural areas, and the difference reflects the fact that the urban population has to travel by longer distances. The financial and economic minister has acknowledged the greater impact of carbon costs on rural population. This is shown in the reply of a minister to a request at the Council a while ago. It's a tax raise on people and businesses in the country. It's no secret. The tax is more common in the country. We in the Middle East believe that this tax is not leveled on the population in a fair way. It is urgent to find a solution. Add to this what has been said here that environmental minister has said that the exact results of the cost are difficult to assess, measured in less emissions than if the price had not been paid. This was also shown at the Council in answer to a query. No action has been declared in the budgetary bill of this government that meets the country's settlements by carbon tax. It is not to say that there is no damage to environmental activities or that other taxes will be declined. Now that we look forward to a downturn, we are expected not to be interested in the government home trying to remedy this situation. These changes in carbon pay are tax increases, and it may be said that they are in the uniform of a green tax, as it were. It would be reasonable to reduce other expenditures and costs to other environmental activities. We must also look to other countries in this regard. In Denmark, e.g. Governments get way too strong when they raised taxes on the environmental issues of an enterprise and in Norway, the carbon account is lower than Iceland and, in part, reimbursed on certain conditions. Thus, the value of carbon is not to be increased by Icelandic companies beyond that of foreign competitors. This reduces competitiveness and reduces the contribution of the Icelandic enterprises and thus allows investments to be made. At the same time, the chances of reaching the cost goal are reduced. What further reduces competitiveness is that non-responsibilities in this country are the exception of the carbon tax. That's how you need, e.g. Foreign fishing vessels that do not charge the price, but in some cases they are fishing in the same way that they do. Neither a fishing ship, a cruise ship, nor a cruise ship pay carbon charge for fuel consumption here on the land, nor any carbon tax is paid by local air fuel in the state's funds. Although technology is rapidly developing in these areas, larger vehicles, workers, and some industrial instruments are not available to use renewable energy. This applies, e.g. We work in the land sector and agriculture, especially in agriculture. So in certain areas, this energy exchange is not a practical option, especially when we look at industrial and commercial devices that use so-called color oil and therefore the possibility of such factors for energy exchange is negligible. The amount of carbon is evidently a tax that affects the sector in different ways. It is reasonable that there is a universal policy in the case before it goes any further - especially with the taxable part of this case. We in the central category are not reducing the seriousness of this issue, the climate change, quite the same. But we need to find a way for everyone to sit at the same level when it comes to fighting climate change in terms of tax recovery. It is not reasonable that a certain group of people of the land need to be more fed by this struggle than by others. There's a lot of talk about the electric car truck in this connection. There is the fact that buying an electric vehicle is not within everyone's reach. We need to keep in mind how we will meet them. First, it needs to be very powerful and good public transportation, and it has not been in the country. There's been a huge loss on the public transportation that's been there. So there is much to consider in this tax system. The central category suggested that the rate of increase in the carbon price of 10% would not be effective, and we also proposed to reduce the cost by 50% from 2017 until the overall policy of how Iceland will use carbon charges in the battle against climate change, without a loss on the land or competitiveness of industry, reducing the efficiency of the economy. Keep in mind, too, that the reduction in this price reduces inflation and thus reduces fuel prices. Above all, it is reasonable to think that the tax returns are arranged so that everyone sits at the same table. It is a key to the important battle we are now facing, and some have gone so deep in the years to say that it is a disaster - I shall not say it here. But it is clear that there is evidence that things can get worse in the coming years, especially in the case of natural hazards, so to speak, severe weather, and other factors attributable to climate change. But it is also important that we keep up - to - date with this subject and examine all aspects of the matter, all arguments with and all arguments contrary, and we have a critical thought when discussing the issues of climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u35	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the citizens' rights. According to 1st mg. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. This time the Committee proposes 32 candidates to be granted citizenship, but 196 applications were received. It is also suggested that a country of one individual who had previously been granted a citizenship rights would be corrected. It is worth noting to mention it in this context, though, that the work of the Committee has reflected several recent increases in application, making it more urgent to change the civil rights laws to meet problems and known failings in the law. These include e.g. a waiting time for fines, especially traffic fines that people get, who get very involved in them. Government consultations already have a saying of the bill. But it is also true to assume that the General and Education Committee itself intends to present a bill that will, at least in some sense, be based on that bill, but the committee itself will agree on such a bill. It was our hope in the Committee that we could have given such a bill during this council and that we would be accepted because there is more and more in time. Instead, we hope to contribute such a bill in the fall, which, of course, depends on the fact that the committee agree on a bill that she would like to bring together to repair the various aspects needed. There's nothing to add, a respectable president, except to congratulate the 32 people and their children who have been given a citizenship right here and I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u36	Mr. President. We are here to vote on enormous human rights matters, on sexual autonomy, but this bill has a tremendously legal arrangement. We're gonna vote for the left green, with the approval of more of the General and Education Committee. On the other hand, we will vote against the proposals of a smaller section of the Committee, which is involved in bringing, in fact, what is now a provisional law into the law. We believe that both in a paper with the bill itself as well as in the efforts of the General and Education Committee have provided clear reasons for why the matter is best lived in temporary regulations I and therefore will not support these changes in the memory of the segments all associated with this provisional principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u37	V.E.G. President. I find it helpful to come up here and explain my feelings. I'm going to sit by the vote on this bill because there are a lot of questions I don't think. This is why I refer to the reviews of an emissary and a health care professional. However, I will support the changes made to the memory of the part in the General and Education Committee because I believe they are improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u38	Mr. President. There is a modification proposal from the memory of the object to immediately forbid irreversible surgery on children. Another way is by supporting the matter, and there was a fine agreement on the committee. This is a great deal of rights. The minority feels that it is indefinable to let go of a one-year specialist board and then some month before you can present a bill here to the General for change. Meanwhile, children who do not have full rights and who are not protected will be born.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u39	A respectable president. We will be supporting this wonderful, important, and truly for granted. We will certainly vote with the change in the size of the object, since the person standing here is in it. We will also vote with the changes in most parts, largely. However, it suggests that the age of 15 will be increased to 18 years, e.g. about when a person is able to determine the date of a generation in a national file. We are not convinced that this change is necessary, although it may be a grammatical argument. We will sit by the changes and support the articles so modified that they will be approved, which we naturally expect to be. We will also sit with Mr. 7. that discuss the limitations of rights to switch sex registrations as it is limited to one year, but I'll go to that in the votes below. It is worth rejoicing for this important and good thing, and I want to congratulate people whose hearts are involved in having them approved at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u40	A respectable president. True, in life many questions remain and continue for a time. However, the question remains whether certain minorities should enjoy the same rights as other people, and this issue is about the rights of minorities, a very important right to identify themselves, and that gender should be accepted and to protect the physical immunity of people. We also want this immunity to include children, so we have a change in the motion to forbid such acts on people with nontypical sexual traits unless there are compelling health reasons. Other than that, I think this is a big progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u41	Mr. President. This is a very important matter, but I don't know if I agree with that statement. Because all too often, unfortunately, rights are not automatic, and even though the years do not necessarily improve their rights. We see it all over the world. In order to improve the rights of people, political courage is needed to make decisions. It takes a political will to drive them to the end, and I'm very proud that the Council has set this place up in the process. It is true that questions remain unquestioned, but I am determined to continue working according to the provisional regulations set out in the bill and to try to make the best of peace with them. At the same time, I am very grateful for the general good peace that I believe was established in the General Assembly on this matter of rights that is important to a large group of people and will restore Iceland to the highest order in the affairs and rights of queer people. [[The president calls.]] I thank you for the fine work I've seen taking place at the General Assembly and remind you that the rights are not always self-skilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u42	A respectable president. This is the same limitation as it already exists when a name change occurs, so this can only be done once in your life unless there are any special reasons. I realize that such changes may have to be limited. On the other hand, I think they're too much, both in this bill and in the human names law, and that's why I'm embarrassed by this particular article.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u43	A respectable president. I kind of have to vote against this proposal now that the other one, who was in better, has been cut, i.e. putting into the bill itself the changes we wanted. This preliminary principle requires that, in the case of the first proposal, although I have contributed to it. I thought I should mention it because I am with the proposal's importer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u44	V.E.G. President. I think it is important to maintain this provisional principle and that the work will be started which will be planned for consultations on certain factors that are certainly sensitive and controversial among both gay people and health professionals. It is important that there be a conversation that aims to reach a solidarity or common conclusion. That's why I vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u45	Mr. President. Here we take a little too little of a step in delinquency against a dollar. Of course, the union supports the matter, but it reminds us that much more is needed. The situation here has not been enjoyed by many of us poorer ones in recent years, including all of us in this Assembly Hall. Now that the harshness of the economy valley is tough, it is necessary to defend the well - being of these people. They need extra effort. Despite the importance of these changes today, we also need to remember those who live solely in pension and who need to increase. We'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u46	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a change in social assistance law. I think it's a good step here to take a cent off against a dollar. There are further steps to improve the quality of this group. That's a good thing to do. This bill also contains many good compensation for disability, and we will continue to take them firmly and firmly forward. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u47	President. Piratar and I support this case because it's a step in the right direction, even though it's very small. I feel right, and I have to say here, it's intolerable how little money is spent in reducing it to a dollar that all classes spoke of removing completely before the last election. It is noteworthy that there was no consultation with disabled people's interest groups in the processing of the bill. They have not been allowed to escape the application of a cent to a dollar. It's a small budget of 2.5 billion, and it could be done much better and it needs to be done better. Of course, I support the small step being taken. This is not a good job, and I encourage ministers to do better next time and to consult with the parties involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u48	Mr. President. We're here to vote on a 65-dollar bill of the government. Sixty - five dollars will still be taken from each crown of microfowl. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir seems to have found large banks of disability. This is evident in both this and in the case of others. Clearly, the poor are to carry the burdens, and they will still be allowed to wait for justice for some time in the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. It's a disgrace and it would have, for example. it was very cheap to increase this rate, though it would have been only up to half a dollar. It would have been very cheap, and one would play to find money for that. I'm sorry, that's not done. Of course we would say yes, but we would have wanted to take a much greater step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u49	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the Committee for how fast she worked this case. I agree that there would have been a positive outcome if we could have applied earlier than we were waiting for the results of a working group. The minister is fully aware that better consultations would have been needed, yet he is grateful for the work of the committee and how it was handled. Here we are taking an enormously important step in encouraging increased participation in a workforce, which is the very essence of the recent report. I am particularly pleased that the government is taking steps here for decommissioning patients who were aware of a decision at the time when this road to older citizens was taken. Under the leadership of Coyote. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, the son of Sæmund, was conscious of his decision to leave disability at that time, and it's a pleasure that we are now making changes and taking this step. I thank the Committee for how fast she responded in this regard and that we are going to make this move here because it certainly wasn't good to leave this group behind 2016. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-14-123.u50	Mr. President. We vote for the Environment Minister for a change in climate law since 2012. As an agent of the Commission's opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee, I'd like to be glad that we vote on this matter today. There were adjustments in the matter. Environmental and Transport Committee. I simply welcome the results that were achieved. In addition, the Commission's main proposal to report the state of climate, the representative of the largest labour force, will sit in the climate council, and, above all, be content with the obligation of the rural areas to establish climate policy. It's very important. The bill is basically good, and with these changes for improvement, it is here one of many positive and necessary steps to help us all to cope with the greatest disaster we face, which is climate change, and I encourage all members of the Parliament to give their support to this matter.
