ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u1	At the beginning of this meeting, the president wishes to congratulate Icelandic women on the day of today's Women's Court of Women, June 19th. That day is indeed the festival of the whole nation, and it is a memorial of a great battle of rights, including those of the nation. to whom we especially remember, that today has been 104 years since women received a general vote. Happy birthday, ladies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u2	There have been letters received from the Sea Scourges and Agriculture Ministers and Tourism, Industrial and Neo-creation Ministers requiring deadlines to provide written answers to inquiries for thawing. 1567, on expenses and the use of public and custom software at the Ministry and Subsystems, and on decks. 1568, on expenses and the use of general and custom software from the Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u3	Mr. President. A professional health committee received a bill on the disposition of a mackerel in between the 2nd and 3rd. It had been requested that we discuss the potential inadequacy of a judge in the Supreme Court due to a government lawsuit and a decision on that matter. We've been contacted by the Ministry. The minister and the Ministry, to review these cases and the conclusion of the meeting, was that the Ministry and the State as if such had no opportunity to assess a judge in the Supreme Court; it would not be the State to evaluate a proper judge and nothing had been brought up that would have affected the production of the bill that had been done by the experts and lawyers, no interference with the making of the bill, or any effect on what it looked like when it was submitted to the council. And there was no reason to involve any incompetent judge into the bill that stands before the council and we do so today. This is the verbal opinion of the Committee. She did not consider it a reason to have a written extension opinion in this case, since it did not involve the content of the bill we are considering and available to the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u4	Mr. President. That's an interesting answer, though, which I appreciate. This has been so many times during the discussions, if I have correctly understood, that the reasons why the bill actually comes out are this Supreme Court, and it is estimated that those in favour of the Supreme Court have gone into damages to the state for billions of dollars, large amounts. If the interests of those under the Al Thani case had been similar to the interests of the employment committee on behalf of the public, we would never have received this decision from the European Court of Human Rights regarding the inadequacy of the judges. But enough, this is the decision of the Committee. I want to ask you why. A senator and ask him to answer me now because I have never achieved it in the discussion, which in fact has not been long in the conference on this big case, mackerel case, why wasn't it decided to enter a law on the way that has gone in the past few years, and many ocean ministers have confirmed it by regulations, since Jón Bjarnason set it up at first. Why was it not a matter of simply going that way, as it was thought that more people would be allowed access to mackereloids and fewer people, but instead of saluting them at their lower expense?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u5	Mr. President. Like what? A senator can decide which laws apply to the management of fish fish, and the legislatator now suggests, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister. A professional health - care committee has made significant changes in this process, just to meet these fishing projects later, when mackerel came up to the country and was catchy on the shores of the country. The changes are strongly in harmony with the criticism that has been made that the fishing season is not comparable to the largest fishing here from 2007/2008 and that, in some respects, were pioneers to gain experience in giving us our share in the lands of macroil fishing around us, although treaties have not been reached among those nations in that regard. I just want to say that it's ours here, the Lawgiver, to decide what kind of mastery will be in the future, away from this Supreme Court. It's just a case that's unique in terms of government damage demand. The matter is totally independent, but it certainly was stated in the court that the lawgiver could not control the country by law. Then, just a matter needs to be settled, a team of workers was assigned by a seafaring minister to discuss these matters. There were lists of four roads that were few. There are certainly more than the results that had to be chosen the way we are going, but there are significant changes, that I think, in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u6	Mr. President. This whole scenario raises questions, so I'd like to ask them why. A senator doing a little more research with me. If a deed is raised and the Supreme Court reverses the Court's judgment of the city of Reykjavík and judges those in favor of the matter, they can do some damages. That was the decision, followed by the ultimate. Secretary of the sea with a bill that aims for hunting experiences which are by no means my knowledge, by the spirit of the law. It's gone a bit out of the spirit of the current law and the bottom line. Minister, if I allow myself to say so, it became a larger item at the expense of the smaller ones. The employment committee has now made changes, yet they are less effective and have a different system around them. It may not have been decided to go this way, saluting the large structure in an effort to get her not to go into harm's business because the damage is done. It would also have been very strange if the little projects had to have paid for the government's damages to the big ones so that, of course, it would have been ridiculous if the government and the Supreme Court were to pay for it. A minister would have intended to walk that way. Why this route was gone, but not only confirmed, by law, by what has been worked out in the regulations of the past few years, and many sea officials from many groups have done - that question remains open to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u7	Mr. President. I find it very strange if that's true. The senator will discuss legally establishing what has been done by the Regulation for the number of years. I don't know any better than that. A senator has already fought for changes in the fishing system and the auction of all resources, and this is not a way of applying what has been practiced for years. [[Answer the question.]] [[Up front.]] If I may speak here, the highest. - Yes, I've been president. [[Come on, come ……]] [[Give a speaker a sound. (OH: Reply.) Give a speaker a sound.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u8	Come on, come
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u9	Give a speaker a sound.) There's a lot of nerve shaking in auctioners in the room, I hear. What I was going to say is that the lawgiver has free hands on how he makes laws about the control of fishing. Hunting laws have not been passed. Hunting at macroil has been controlled by regulations. The legislators are now suggesting how hunting will be controlled by a legal bill, and this depends on how the council agrees with that conclusion. Here is a conclusion to do this in this way, and we are free to do it as lawmakers. I believe that we left greens with our emphasis have made good changes in the case for the benefits of the fishing industry by line and by hand around the country where mackerel began to catch much later. The fishing will be divided into two groups, those who are in the seas, and they will hunt with other fishing tools, not with hands, and lines, and those who are in hand and in line. In fact, people on the hands and lines of the mackerel get a higher percentage than ever so far, something about 5.4%. As the bill was before, it was more than 2% of the groups that caught with these fishing tools. I think there's been a lot more effort in this business than there's ever been on the oceans and on the coasts of the country. The Lawgiver is only free to set the country's law on fishing on mackerel, as with other customs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u10	Mr. President. When the mackerel enters our jurisdiction, it is the common property of the nation. Now it's supposed to be called after he got screwed up at a council that said goodbye to him 2015 because they were so aggressive that they wanted to put him in a new system, where the project would get him for six years plus one year forever. The sixth largest collection of signatures in history to the President of Iceland went on to refer it to national law. Because he couldn't be said goodbye, because of this freckle, we're standing here today. It was neglected in 2011 to greet him, so when it comes to bringing this combined resource to the nation, the fishing the resource is always a mess. This continues to be a mess against the nation's will. In 2015, there were over 53,000 who signed on the subject to the nation. If this is the route that is being proposed for macrontures, this may cost the state's funds, hence taxpayers, tens of billions. This is shown on the cover of the News News magazine today. In December, the state, the taxpayers of the country, had to pay the bills - how many billion were then, in December when the Supreme Court judged? Does anyone remember? No answers from the hall. But because of government failure and the Generals' efforts to handle our common resource, taxpayers, the owners of the resource, should pay for the failures, how to use our own resources. The way you could go is that this new fishing resource, the macro, is out and that its citizens receive market prices so that the people themselves will receive the price they are prepared to pay for it. That would be a fair way. We are confronted anyway, the freckles are so great, that government funds and taxpayers have to pay the bills that they are not allowed to use the resource exactly as they please. It is what would be fair to have the country marketed prices for its use. It's not the way to go here. The newsmagazine reports that the macilot has a total value of 653/4,100 billion. worth and the government's compensation for the development could be 35 billion dollars. Promoting requirements have already been performed on the state, policies from the output for the mobilization of macroil have already been submitted. This is the situation we face. A section of what was complained about on the committee is that now the preparations are considered to be their property rights, and in some respects it may be true, because it has been neglected for so long to go back to the people of the land. You can debate whether it has become a special right, but now you want to say so, and if so, this violation of the Constitution, this constitution protection of the property rights. It's a universal agreement, when it comes to hunting our resources, in conflict with the general public, and now the public is going to pay for the failure of the Allied Council if this way is to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u11	V.E.G. President. After this talk, there are two main questions that I am wondering about. I'm going to begin by correcting that the Supreme Court has not judged any billions of dollars. [[Up front.]] It is approved, but the person would prove the damage and if there was a head. Another key issue, with a so - called auction route, is that it belongs to this mackerel. The people don't own this mackerel, this mackerel is only in the ocean, but, of course, we can control these fishing on the basis of the Supreme Court. That is what we can do, but it is not a righteousness thing in the sense that we have these things. It's not even our jurisdiction. Why do we get part of this dinner? That is because, as they say, some attended at their time in the prom sea. A suggestion to assign an auction market will never go according to the rights that humans have to attend at the time, when there was no greeting on it, and will pay for it. And then we think senators we can just say, "Hey, this is our business, and you have no right. We're going to invite the highest bidder. It is the violence of the state, and that is all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u12	President. The Makri also enters our jurisdiction, and that is part of the debate that is taking place. It took him more time to enter the jurisdiction and up to the shores, so the fishing experience varies. On this basis, the big debate between stakeholders stands in the fishing industry. Yes, I suppose we can make decisions about our common resources, taking them to the government. That's exactly what the government of the left green and the United States was working on at the time, and it made a lot of impression that it would last for the constitution if it was done slowly and then offered out, that would be 5% a year. That's the way that they talked about there. Others have talked about 3% a year, over any year, that this resource and the right to use it have been issued. Yes, it has been very much discussed in the community. That's what I'm talking about. The senator did not agree that this way would pass a constitution, the way the Conspiracy and the Left Green were working on at the time for the indentation of the resources to be called at about 5% a year and offered to the highest bidders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u13	V.E.G. President. No, I don't think calling up responsibly does not pass. This may happen over a long period of time, but it is absolutely impossible that mine knows to recall and sell supplies. Not to be overlooked is the fact that those who attended the water in a free system, those who went out to catch a mackerel, form rights. Those rights are also protected by the Constitution, and they must not forget it. We always think that we have everything, including what's in the ocean, and that's why we can do what we want. It's not like that, it's never been like that, and that's why in the beginning of the cry system, based on hunting experience. This experience and rights were protected by a constitution. That's the point. The macroloth is such a contract between nations. We get this big dinner because some took a chance, went to the expense, and began fishing. Yeah, well, sometimes some of these things come into the weekend. In historical light, this has been rare and very likely to happen again, so humans have formed rights. The problem with the government was that she thought it could be controlled by some authority that everyone knew would not last. Everyone knew that this judgment would eventually come, but the problem, now, is that it had been given fishing documents that are so hard to take back because men paid expenses and investments. This is the mess we've been through and that's going to the top. Secretary of the sea trying to fix the best of his ability. I wouldn't have wanted to be in his place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u14	President. Then I'd like to point it out. paritaprevir Brynjar's armored Níelsson that to cancel the quota as it is being done today, anyway, the fishing warrants that should have been given to certain parties in 2011 - they should not now be given all of them. They want them all they should have had, but with this bill, they take a part of them and move it to the others. It is reasonable, but it was pointed out in the committee that it would violate the Constitution, that would not pass its rights of possession. In case of a moment. A senator votes with this bill as it comes from the government, he is going in exactly the same direction, to extend the rights of possession, as outlined by the Committee, from one member to the other at the same time, and he says that this privilege must not be moved from those who are using the resources in the entire world, taking 5% of it, and offering it. The committee has just stated that there was something that might be possible, but one person could not be taken away and brought to the others, as is done in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u15	Mr. President. Just a minute on this matter. As I mentioned in a talk to the 2nd. The matter does not go unnoticed, but it is a fundamental matter, a prince's case. How tragic it is to listen to the talks of the council, including those of the Governing Body! Councilmen of the left movement ◯ green supply, considering the direction they have taken to this end in the fishing regime. Now they are like preschoolers on the side of the Independence Party and their last speaker, w. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, introduced it, and stressed that no matter what way we're going to secure the nation's partnership, people have doubts. Therefore, now more than ever before, there is a need for a constitution of resources. Despite the fact that the crops are in the sea, there are still considerable doubts about the country's share. Fishing control law since 1990. It was once the article that held the entire government together, beginning in 1991,1995, so there is really serious doubt that the people have the fish in the sea. This is repeatedly expressed by independents. Although not much of this discussion is seen by candidates, it seems that they too have come to mind, and I feel sorry that the candidates, along with the left green and all other groups, have been more likely to make temporary agreements. Why are we always on wooding with temporary agreements? Yes, it is to ensure it and to emphasize that it is the right of the nation, this is the national share. These are the nation's resources. What's being done here is not just that there's a chance that there's a lot of damage going on in the last tens of billions of years. It is vital that we make good use of it, but it is also vital that we repeatedly say that the nation shares in the work done out of the sea. But no less do I believe that in addition to this route, the government is being able to secure large productions, including some of them. Long-term rights. Therefore, it is so painful to have experienced that members of Congress, including some members of the United States, have, Left greens, have now refused to make temporary agreements in order to underscore the rights of the nation. I'm going to see the resource principle that came out of the cooperation of the leaders of all political parties. I'm afraid with the government classes, and then I'm talking about the Central Party, too, this is all becoming the same soup, that there will be a mountain back road, or some other way to prevent the resource principle from gaining value, this important law to take account of this bill. This is the way we strongly warn, not just the fact that temporary agreements are not being made, but the guarantee of eternal rights. That's bad, so we want to protest on the Archipelago. In the past, a chairman of a left - green business committee told the director that the legislatator had free hands in the management of fishing. That's right, that's exactly right, and that's why the left movement is going exactly this way. Why does the lawgiver and the government choose this way when they have a choice about how to control fishing? She chooses to ensure a measure of eternal rights instead of thinking about the nation, its share, its resources, despite the fact that there are great skeptics in this country, as we have heard who will not accept the presence of resources on land or sea and can be sharers of the Icelandic nation. This bill is another step in crushing the national rights to their resources. That is what we are about to warn about when it comes to this matter, and we have provided suggestions that are going in the opposite direction regarding the rights of the nation. We set up a bill as a major part of this council, as well as with the support of the Central Party, fell here yesterday to secure the nation's resources. As a result, the fight for ensuring the national rights to continue will be fought. Hence, the discussion of the seabed continues in the way it has been so far. The government groups and the fishing route cannot expect that while things are being done like this, we will keep quiet and just be happy and content with the development of things. We are proud, but this injustice cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it was as if I hadn't heard. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son earlier that everyone had only known that this was not to be determined by the law. But it wasn't that everyone knew. Reykjavík's province found that this was all right and that the State was not subject to harm. The Supreme Court, on the other hand, reversed the case. The greater part of the community's economic care is such that they do not think to find out whether the matter needs to be taken up because of possible inadequacy like a judge and do not even ask for an inspection. However, other Supreme Court courts have fallen, and they have been held in the court of Reconnaissance Corp. against the Icelandic government since March 2017, according to the court's opinion, the legislator may decide to appoint fish documents for an appropriate lead-in period and depending on the events of the reassignment, as well as to include the rights for fishing, conditions or fees for it because of changing views about the provision of crops. It is not only the Constitution, it is also the Supreme Court that builds up that the way the Conspiracy has spoken before and now at the council, after its arrival, for a commission on the market, is self - determination and righteous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u17	Mr. President. I've done quite well over the Supreme Court, which has fallen across the very seabed. Clearly, the red thread of these key sentences, condemned for us, who are trying to shape and establish a fishing regime, is that the government, the lawgiver, always has the authority to change the fish - control laws, which must be moderate. You may not be able to remove all the materials on a single board and call them on a single board, but you can do so at a certain time. It's the Lawgiver's work. Is that three years, five years, two years? There is a modest amount of time. But the lawgiver has all the authority to change the system as he thinks it should be, and hopefully we will always keep it in mind that it is the nation's primary interest in which we must take care of the way in which we live, and the economics of the sea and sustain ourselves. We have all this information, and it really stands as a result of independence and the rest of the government groups and the media don't want to change anything. They would much rather go this way, which is being taken by the mackerel here, to promote injustice. That's what we've been saying in Wesun, in part, in agreement with what the United States has been saying, that on the other hand, there is the key to a temporary contract to ensure that the rights of the nation are involved, and it's our job to determine how we're doing. Then there is the way to obtain the price, the legitimate and the normal price. We've called it a marketing route. It can also be called an auction because we simply believe that the market is better off dead than the politicians here decide what is a fair price. We've experienced this over and over again that if a certain string of strings within the government groups is pulled out, people will start out of the way and then they won't have a reasonable, normal payment, but they will take a down payment on an arrangement to make atonement for the people in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u18	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned a change in the Constitution, which is in his consultation, including on the resource policy, but it says, by permission of the President: ▪ Renewables for the use of natural resources and national rights belonging to national property or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law and should be balanced and transparent. As for the deposit, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ There are ways to reach them, as previously traced. It is not necessary to show the amount of currency in the law, but the price may be determined by a selection procedure or by a discharge where prices and other terms are not predetermined. I want to ask you why. Senator: If the highest. A government means something by this suggestion, or the presidents, indeed, why. One member of that group, on terms of a constitution, would not have been able to apply it on just the macroquacantan, showing that with this species, which is likely to be viewed specifically where, for the first time, it is now being legally administered, it is appropriate to look at this provision and use some variety, not to go as it was. A senator has described them well, has he repeated repeated and now extended favors to the great ones at their less expense?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u19	Mr. President. Yes, I would have thought that we should have. But it is also appropriate to draw out, to be truthful in this, that the constitution is so that the leaders come together for a certain text, which is natural on a previous basis. Various factors have to be considered, including proposals for governance, etc., but this does not necessarily mean that everyone agrees with what the text says. I would've liked to see more important regulations, including. for temporary negotiations, but that's in the report. We'll see what got out of it before, but I was able to find out that, in the end, despite the great willingness of prime minister to continue this, there will be divisions in the government and the media that will prevent this resource directive from being realized. That's what I'm afraid of, considering what's happened, in view of what's related to mackerel. That is something we need to be afraid of. I would've only wanted to see us take the mackerel out of parentheses. I know the Union tried in its left command to say that the mackerel should take a little bit outside and that we should go somewhere new. I would have liked to see it. I would have liked to see a government led by the left green, going a way similar to the Høgni Hoydal in the Faeroe Islands, which has taken certain routes of auctioning in those fish species there. I would have wanted the left green, which offered Høgni Hoydal to his country council, where he even went. over the fish - fishing system in the Faeroe Islands, would have taken it as an example, led by the government, saying, "Good and good, my friends, let's take the mackerel out of parentheses. Let us prove that we are going to make peace. We're going to try to go some new ways, including... Marketing or auction, to see what effect and how it affects the fishing system. There is an ideal opportunity through the mackerel, but that opportunity is that of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to come up against what. A senator because I think she's a rather double story in her language. She talked a lot about the left green before and our great power at the Council, being able to present a bill that would be 100% to want and course of the left green. It so happens that we are in cooperation with other classes and are working accordingly. Hv. A senator spoke of the use of resources now for eternity. A candidate up and responds in a way that the lawgiver can change every time by changing the law on fish control changes the distribution of resources. How can these two be compatible? Can we not, though, then or in the future, change these laws like other laws? Is there a source of resources being assigned to mackerel for eternity? I don't know any better than being assigned a year's resources, whether it's in mackerel or in other species. I had a summary of a deceased High Court judge, Magnús Thoroddsenur, and his opinion is that the legislatator can make changes in the fishing system without the government being considered hazardous. While moderate attention must be paid to the way fishing has been controlled, the legislatator can change the fishing system. That's why I think it's absolutely true. One lawyer uses a cross like this, claiming that we are assigning resources to eternity. It's just ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u21	Mr. President. This is once so that the more opportunities that pass by to ensure national rights and to emphasize that resources such as crops in Iceland are the partner of the nation, the richer the reform will become. The longer this system sticks, the richer their rights. I'd rather have thought that the left green should have come up here and said they wanted to set the rights of the nation. Yes, I'm afraid we're being built for eternal rights, that the legislatures for the legislature will be changed, even if I agree that we should always have this right. It must be moderate, but the longer we put it in place of not having temporary agreements, the more we will be able to negotiate. I would have thought that for the development, it would be good for me to follow a similar path. Meanwhile, the secretary of the sea, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, tried to leave at his time but was made backward on the part of the Independence Party, trying to make temporary contracts. There is no reason for anyone to point out temporary agreements. Sea scholars have also identified this as being clear. I don't understand this ambition of the left green, and I know that the left green sols hurt to stand for such a bill in the winter before because of a huge amount of spells on the output, despite the fact that we've considered it better to go somewhere else. Of course, I know it costs one thing and another to be in the government, but you can't hide behind it alone. It has considerable power to say who is in charge of the government each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u22	Mr. President. It certainly matters who has the authority in the government at any time, and it has the highest authority we have. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, certainly showed. She's the one who's been fighting to get the resource rules into the constitution and to get a solid agreement about it, and she's going to get it because she's been a very powerful spokesman, and that's how we temporarily expand our resources. I'd like to hear it. A senator regarding the big changes we left green has achieved on this bill in solidarity. Counts 'em out. A senator did not find that a 4,000 - ton pot is much more than one fished by the fishing industry on a line and a handbook that has entered that system, is it not compatible with any of these ideas about auctions? This is certainly for rent from that pot to the members who catch on lines and hooks. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't feel the same way as we left green that they're not handing out resources from the memory system that just meets land on a line and handles the big one so that system's empty? A fence has been placed between here just to ensure the status of those who hunt on lines and handles along the shores of the country so that they will not lose the largest means and they will be able to absorb everything to themselves in the future. Isn't this positive that we left green has come up here for support? We're allowing a species transfer between systems to offer to those in the memory system, to obtain species such as cod, and other species to switch within the year with macroil. And it's also very good to have this flexibility, so I believe that the left green has certainly put its prints on this bill far beyond its council grant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u23	Mr. President. I'm kind of surprised at this remark why. Senator. All I suppose was that she read our proposals on the market route, where we specifically stated that 5% of the total resources in macroil especially enter the miniboat system and it is forbidden to transfer. [[Up front.]] Yeah, that's why I'm surprised to hear it. A senator has not come to realize this, and it is much more likely that I plan to do so after we gave our bill that this positive effect on the change in a large part of the council. I'm glad that someone says, " It doesn't matter where good comes from, let's change it. ' During the trip, our proposals were to take into account just the lineboats and handle boats, taking into account the construction of the miniboat system because we need them because it has been efficient. Therefore, we specifically stated, in fact, a little more than the share now, that 5% of the total share share in macroil will enter the miniboat system by market route, which will then not be transferred into the large system. We agree there, and that's fine. I like the changes that have come. The princes are still there. I'm warning you, there's no timing and timing of resources, it's dangerous, and I'm warning you not to. On the basis of the way the parade has been, and the postmortem to the Central Party has been completed, I'm suggesting that it just doesn't have the strong influence into all the constitutions, but it's not that we in Reunion don't try to approach matters objectively. We will continue our work in the Constitution work, and it seems to me that in the Constitution work, we have a refurbished and left green more in common than many other categories. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u24	Mr. President. I'm going to make a brief presentation in this discussion. I hope I'm able to keep clear of political gladiatories on the exact issue. This has led me to say a few words about the basics of this matter, especially that it hurts me when men speak down the clear agreement laws that govern fish fishery stores and Supreme Courts and that have done many things to prove to be there. I'd like to mean that we, who feel that, of course, should share these natural resources and on their behalf, the lawgiver uses the method of using it, that we should not speak down that position. It hurts me to hear it. And just so it's said one more time, "A fishing project doesn't belong to the private rights, the Constitutionary, right. They don't have it. But they certainly have acquired rights, job - related rights, and good faith. They cannot be crossed out without meeting certain viewpoints about moderate behavior and reasonableness. Even if this was the government's exclusive right, it can be released to the nation. This has been demonstrated by both local and international examples, but then people will likely have to accept even more time, and they will do so in an even milder way. Norway did this at the time with the privileges of activation, the famous ŠHjállávál. It has stood the test of time, and Norway was restored to its people in 70 years of rights over the hydropower. Of course, we Icelanders could do the same, even though judges fell in the way that this was a temporary private right. Happily, though, this has not happened, and we should stand there and speak for it and let others apply to it. Of course, I'm a sponsor for bringing this into a constitution to appeal and to emphasize it even more. In my mind, the annual distribution of hunting rights, though in an untimely law, is not about this. That's an arrangement. Some people have talked so gradually that some sort of indirect or even later a direct private right would begin to develop, but I disagree, and I think it's dangerous to speak that way because of the lack of protection against the explicit law of partnership. A body of lawmakers has a very strong position to establish guidelines, and it is above all doubt that it is possible to do so. That's why talking about some eternal rights is not appropriate here. Similarly, there is something we should not put into our mouths. It is true that governments could have been more successful in these and after thinking, and in the light of judicial decisions, it would have been more reliable to bring relief under the temporary control of macroilism from 2010 to 2011 and to today. This is primarily because the fishing laws are falsely maligned in this regard, and they take in no way out of an objective way how to deal with it when, for example, they are dealing with it. New species are entering the jurisdiction. In fact, the same is true of fishing laws when new species are introduced. Of course, there should be clear and specific laws on how this is temporarily controlled over some long years until one is content with the appearance of a balance and equality between parties that can be built on a permanent arrangement. In fact, in the case of the mackerel, I think it is very strange that the government we have in the past few years was not to pass judgment, including for the reason that this is a root that we share with others and that is incompatible with the final share of Iceland's stock in the stocks. Why should a head have been assigning it in a permanent way? In my opinion it calls itself that it should have been, certainly better, based on law, the authority to control the temporary fishing at this time. It is true that this is true of those who, by free hunting, began fishing on this type of species, were made up of a number of historical facts. They made up right for the land, both right, and it must be looked at because our demands, I don't talk about 16%, and although there were only 12% of the macroils in the North Atlantic, of course, based on the fact that we've shown two things, that we can feed him and that he's come into our jurisdiction. That's where it counts. Yet, those who went first to the catch do not seek the right and the gain of the land, nor sit alone for ever. Not by default. We have a recent example of the fact that the lawgiver has previously considered a need to look to various reasonable and equal issues. It is when the Norwegian-Sislanddir started to catch again in Iceland in 1994 and in the years that followed. Of course, it was a large ship that attended the first silhouette after 30 years, and it was some time off into the sildarma. But they said, "Yes, but we wait, this is the Norwegian-issian silhouette that the entire Icelandic fleet caught in the old herring years, and if we are going to start making an arrangement for spreading rights in these fish that will start again, we have to take it into account. The result was prepared, it was a compromise between the free-fishers and that the entire fleet had a certain normal share in this, i.e. the ships that would normally be equipped for such fishing. So, finally, the share was taken away into the Norwegian-Sizen silhouette strain. The same is true in many respects here, but there must be a perennial rules and most fortunately it would be to give them a long adjustment period until they had a permanent arrangement. Of course, smaller boats that can cause macros should have a share, since they have now proved to be successful fishing and can be profitable, of course. As a result, we must find a practical way to share these rights somehow so that everyone will receive a fair share. I think this bill, to be said, by the changes proposed by the employment committee, is to provide a very good approach in that subject and is completely satisfied with it and support it. Then there's one more thing to say, there's a possible damage that an agent is about to start picking himself up, big or small. I would like to say that it will shame those who are going to go to the taxpayers when they are being given the tremendous valuable rights and rights they have enjoyed in the past few years, since the vandals will probably be those who have enjoyed the good profit of catching a mackerel in the past few years and will do in the future. I am not jealous of the owners or managers of the marine export companies who are going to offer it to the Icelandic nation. You know, talking about billions or billions of damages because they're gonna be people who've caught and enjoyed the benefit of catching mackerel. Could they have made a little more money in the past few years? Yes, perhaps, some of them if they had been given a little more rights, but they need to prove it. There is no harm. In recent years, would it not be proper to take the money away from the requirement? Is that not and will then calculate any benefits to the future of this group? I don't particularly worry about the government, because even if some people do become so small as to get into damages, I don't do that specifically, and I don't want them to make a success of it, but I'm just saying, "Be a good man." [[Not well-being.]] With regard to one point of possession, I feel completely forgotten in this discussion that we are now taking resources from the fishing industry. On what basis do we do this? That the people own the resource, and it's only fair for them to pay for it. That war has been won. It won 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u25	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u26	It is no longer an issue that the Council can provide a grammatical guide to paying for the access to this resource. Does this not establish enough what we have been talking about, that it is not for humans to have these things themselves? Yeah, I think so. If they get convicted, big or small, any damages, I suggest they pay for their own damages in the form of higher resource costs in the coming years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u27	Mr. President. I must say, I have not been particularly happy when the president steps down from the chair and participates in the discussion, but when talks like that - I don't necessarily agree with everything that happened. A senator said, but what he said was important and important. There was a core, a message I haven't heard clearly from the government. Hv. A senator can only scold me for it, but there's a prince's stunts that are so important and are said in clean and good English. What I've been talking about, and people have been saying about the eternal rights of recovery - laws were set in the 1980s. There was a sharp disagreement, such as colic. A senator knows well. Under Jóhannes Nordalur, a resource commission was appointed. The core conclusion of that committee was very clear, and it was returned in 2000. The representatives of all groups were united in their conclusions, and the core was that the right to fish from a common resource should be temporary. It was one of the two main terms of the conclusion. However, there should be a payment for the rights and take into account their duration, i.e. The length would be part of the value, or amount, of the price. On the one hand, the rights and the other were to be timed to set up the resource bills. Happily, we have agreed on resource costs. We can debate methods, whether they're a marketing or an auction route, but we agree on the resource costs. What we're trying to do is follow the core of the resource management committee. The richest committee doesn't give us any indication of the best way to make time, so we go to it and we go to the administrative rights, we go to the Constitution. What is a moderate measure? That is why we propose 20 years of contracts, for the development of plans, etc. should also have a permanent view of long - term development. [[The president calls.]] That's our core, but our criticism of this bill is still true. We fear that if temporary treaties are not made, another right would be in place that I do not like.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u28	Mr. President. Of course, I do not disagree that having some time limit in this is a normal arrangement. There are many good reasons for that, e.g. that governments must always be on guard at any given time, separating their right to change in someone's place of time, if the situation changes, if the viewpoint changes, may require that we change. Hence, humans must never be too good to believe that they have something that remains unchanged forever, neither allowed to be fishy or fishy. I don't want us to talk about it as a crucial factor to the national partnership. You need to remember why this is a valuable resource. Is it just because fish are in the water and there are some who have ships that can pick it up? Will this be a valuable resource forever, just because? No, that's where they come from. to history simply state sovereignty. It involves the fact that lawgiver is in the country that establishes guidelines. It involves the fact that we have a protection operation to ensure maintenance of the resource. It involves the fact that we are a sovereign state, making deals with other nations for business purposes that make it possible to sell this fish at a good price. It involves the fact that we have regulations, health regulations, and quality rules that ensure that our products go directly to a valuable market. None of this happens automatically just because there are fish and there are ships. It is, of course, finally, that it is a joint and mutual project to make this resource valuable, to keep it safe, and to make good use of it forever. That's why this private rights and eternal talk just isn't relevant at all. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u29	Mr. President. That's right. We also need a lawgiver to make sure that the law code is so that an enterprise can continue and make the most of the raw materials. I think we've created a system like this that has further contributed to the greater use of raw materials than waste. We have experienced in other fishing countries that they have gone on the waste route and are increasingly looking to us about a fishing system. In this public discourse, I have said many times that all classes on the left or right have come to build a pretty good system, the 1983 greeting and the 1990 free service done in the long left government. I know that the left forces back then were highly critical, but that was still the case. All of these steps led to improving the use of raw materials and the added value of the products. All this matters, and thank you. A senator for calling just the EEA deal that matters to us, encouraged us to open a market for our product, and gave us more value for the fish in the sea. We are now making over 80% of each kilogram of cod that comes into the country. It was only 40 and a half percent. The system itself has prepared us to make more money for the product. I want to thank you too. A senator for taking care of speaking as he has been doing in this pita but would like to ask if he agrees with what has been presented in the matter. Councilmen from the Independence Party have found it hard to talk about that the fish in the ocean are not of the nation's share, they just can't be spoken as if they've been involved. Does he agree with the approach expressed by members of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u30	Mr. President. I hope that's not a way out of the way, but I kind of want to turn it around and ask, "Do all the proselytists agree with me? I spoke as plainly as one man can speak, that I counted in my speech, and that is my firm conviction. I know it's not necessarily convenient for me as president to get involved in the discussion and set them on fire for perhaps the next day of the Senate, but that's just the way, Mr President, and I hope I'm sorry, that I've been moving on this seabed talk for about 40 years. I once wrote a book on fishing, I spent years on a seabed committee, and I've been a minister of these matters in my hands for some time, so I'm busy with this story and of the fundamentals that we have. A senator has only been talking here. I believe we've been fogged in the right direction in recent years with things like these, that now 5.3% of all species are being taken aside and put in some good measures. We have a beach hunt. We have tried to keep a balance between factors, trying to maintain diversity in the article. We have resource bills. These are all steps in the right direction, but, of course, I know the fundamental issue of the arrangement. It's like it is. I agree with what. Of course, a senator must never forget the importance of the work environment in this article. This is now one of our most important articles, the article that built Iceland as a welfare community. This needs to be foreknowable. The legislation must be clear, preferably reasonable peace about it, and, of course, it is important that the system be encouraging to investments and innovations. It's going to be all right, and although it's in the fashion of some people to say bad things about what they're making, and that's why we're going to have a lot of money because all these companies, big and small, are going well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u31	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee of General and Education Committee in case of the 53nd, review of legal legislation. The Parliament's decree suggests that the General votes for a special committee of senators who represent all classes at the General Assembly, who work on a total legal review. The Commission provides a bill on the basis of the review as well as the cost analysis and should rush as possible the collection of the bill for suspension of illegal discrimination against disabled persons. A conspiracy was among the officials that the time had come for a complete review of legal law and that at that job the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disappointment of the Disappointment of People. On the other hand, the committee was given the importance of talking about and making proposals for changes in other laws needed to ensure that, on the other hand, the rights of those who were subject to forced treatment, deliberation or liberation, and the need to ensure harmonization and harmony between laws, including child protection laws, patient rights, and general penalties. In particular, a wide range of environments would need to be integrated, but it would be necessary to consider preparatory work where the subject was mapped. It would be a far more complex and challenging matter for those involved. The health and health system, the justice system and the social system also needed to be evaluated. In view of the above, the Commission suggests expanding the matter of the synonym so that a judicial committee will be assigned to provide a comprehensive review assessment and the need for needed legal adjustment. Clearly, such work may be extensive, so the committee also suggests changes in the provision of extensive consultations with relevant institutions and stakeholders, including those who are disabled, as well as with the Ministry of Justice, Health, and Social Affairs. The Ministry is then suggested to be a special committee on behalf of proposals for the necessary legal adjustment, which the Committee will then take up further work and then submit as part of its overall review of legal legislation. The Committee also considers it necessary to give the committee a longer time for their work, especially in view of the fact that the CPT Committee is coming to protect against torture and inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment for the country this year. examine the law of law. At that time, the U.S. government agent has the so-called OPCAT operation with freedom frames, and a report can be expected from the first observation into that subject. The Commission places great importance on the review of the work reports of these parties. In view of this, the committee proposes a 2 - mg deadline. The proposal will be at the end of 2020. Under this opinion, publications are written. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Inst. Helgi Gunn Hrafn of Gunnarsson, who stands here, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Yearnad, Birgis Birgir of Ármannsson, Guðmundur And Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir of Aarna, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u32	V.E.G. President. I hope today there will be a big step toward a great legal improvement for everyone in Iceland and even greater steps towards decommissioning discrimination against the disabled in Icelandic law. If this council proposal is accepted today, the process that I have fought for from my first day at the Council and actually much longer, from the moment I learned what disabled people and people are insane or thought to be insane, there has been a weaker legal rights and a weaker rights protection in Iceland. The greatest example of this injustice in Icelandic law is found in our legal laws, which contain a number of decisions that involve direct discrimination against disabled persons. I want this occasion, a respectable president, to recall my first talk in this sermon, which was just a revised legal law. That's where I said, by permission of the President: ◯ Mr. President. During my session, I signed my commitment to the Constitution. Therefore, it is not out of the way that my first address at the Council served to protect the important rights there. Here I direct, by permission of the President, to 65th paragraph. The constitution that says: "Let everyone be equal under law." I bring this article to the attention of the council because not everyone is equal to the law in Iceland and so must be changed. I refer to a law of law, which contains various principles as discrimination on the basis of disability. Consider the 19th chapter of this article. The law allowing the separation of a so - called forced individual on one basis that he is, with the permission of a president, a serious mental illness, or a significant possibility that he or she may be, in order to equalize a serious mental illness. Since there is no other legal requirement for such a loss of freedom, I have to agree with the repeated error of the European Commission on defenses against torture, which have been identified as a legal discrimination against people with psychiatric illness. [...] Mr. President. These laws are illegal. They do not pass the Constitution or the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. I'm just asking. All of the senators are helping me to make changes on my first chance. A respectable president. I am optimistic that a greater proportion of members of Congress will assist me later today and vote with the approval of this proposal, which includes the appointing of a parapolitic committee from all classes to conduct a full reexamination of legal laws that harmonize with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and other international human rights that we have agreed to. I'm especially glad to hear it. The General and Education Committee agrees with me on the importance and need to reevaluate the legal law, and I know the Committee how much thanks for its good work in this case, work which actually led to the application of the commission of the members of Congress being extended to provide a comprehensive assessment of the legal rights and regulations that apply to liberation, forced treatment, and other forms of liberty with which the disabled people, the users of the medical system, people with mental illness, and people who are considered to be insane. This is a great cause for joy, a respectable president, for surely it takes much more than a review of legal law to ensure equality and respect for the human rights of those groups that may be at risk of forced treatment or decommission because of health issues in Iceland. I considered a good first step to start with a review of legal laws, since it contains such clear examples of discrimination and violations of human rights bonds, but of course there are many laws and legal rights in the Icelandic law of right people, especially those with disability, but also people who are considered insane or just the heads of the health - care system who cannot necessarily protect their rights. There are many examples in the Icelandic law that there are insufficient laws for the application of forced treatment, depravation, intimidation, intimidation, or for legal rights for the application of these impairments or pressures simply do not exist. Of course, it is disturbing in a court state, Mr. President, that large groups of our society that do not enjoy truth, do not enjoy justice, do not enjoy physical immunity, or the same rights to the best possible health as those who are easier to protect their rights. So how glad it is that this Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee will also be assigned to review all the laws and regulations relevant to the use of force and forced treatment in Iceland. It is a long time, and it is also long ago that people's rights, especially those with mental illness, are better true and consistent with our commitments. Then I specifically refer to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, as well as to the European Convention of Human Rights. predicts the prohibition against torture and other unhuman or disrespectful treatments or punishments we do not guarantee well enough, i.e. Our positive commitment to avoid such treatment with the current legal environment, as well as Article 5. That will give everyone the right to freedom. When that article occurs, such as Our law of law has a very weak foundation in handling rights for people with disability and those who are considered insane who are underdeveloped, law-enforcement, self-sustained, or financial expressions. We build a very out - of - date attitude with the legal laws we have today, but there are also many other legal categories that are passed on when it comes to the rights of people who are users of the medical system in one way or another or those who have been judged unconvinced spiritually. For them and for their case, a few articles apply to the general penalties that are much more readily available to their own age. There is far too little work to ensure that these individuals are no longer in need of freedom and that they are not under forced treatment, forced medication, and forced medical treatment without the need, without the last resort, really without any legal requirements. This is the situation in Iceland today, and today we are also taking steps to change the reality of the CPT Committee here or the European Commission on defense of torture and other unhuman or disrespectful treatments or punishments. She came here just a month ago or so ago. I hope we no longer receive as negative her comments on legal laws, forced bonds, as well as the saving of unscrupulous offenders as they have been treated, as we have received since our first visit to our home in 1994. The recommendation from that committee has always been the same, that the law of law discriminates people on the basis of disability. The law allows for depravity on this basis alone that the person may be considered insane. This is not an acceptable warrant for depravity in the state of justice, and with the approval of this proposal today, we take one step closer to removing the law that is valid today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u33	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for a hearing on the state of the Southnes. This is from an environment and transport committee. The committee has discussed the matter and received reviews from Grindavi, Isavia, Smokeytown, Southnestown Community partner, Southnestown, and the Sanitation Society of the Volgum. The Parliamentary Directive suggests that a group of members will be appointed as representatives of the state and rural society of the South Sides, who are working on a time-to-day strategy to further the State's service to the inhabitants of the Southnes and face a large population growth in the region. It is suggested that the group report to the prime minister who introduces the results of the group. It is good to relate that reviews of the subject were very positive, even positive. A special position of rural areas in the South is pointed out where a large proportion of people work in connection with tourism, as well as that with the proportion of population of non-elderly countries being higher in Southnes than in other areas of the country. The population has then been following social infrastructure pressures, especially those on government custody, such as health care, law enforcement, high school, and road systems. According to a report by the Southern Union, by the end of 2018, the number of foreign citizens increased by 3,780 since 2010, i.e. ... aboutthe population of Isafjörðurtown. Government planning has not taken into account population growth or population composition. The relationship points to the need to examine the government's budget for public institutions and important projects in the region so that the inhabitants of Southnes live at least in the same service as those of other parts of the land. As an example, an increase to the Southnes Institute for Health and Health was 1% per year with a requirement of 0.5%, while the population grew by a total of 15%. In addition, the analysis of Attar's company performed in 2018 demonstrated a failure in donations to the region. In recent years, the committee claims that the situation of the South American community is special, and there have been a wide range of variations in the commercial life of Southnes. It is important to deal with these situations based on information and an effective and clear approach. The Committee stresses that the work group covers the situation of the South American rural states in terms of population growth and composition and the social impact of population growth. In this way, the work group will evaluate whether financial or social contributions to the local countries have followed the development of events in the South. The arctic airport is the largest workplace in Southnes, and its situation has a major impact on communities. It is therefore important that changes, whether in recent years or in current recession, be assessed systematically. Thus, the committee stresses that the work group assesses the impact of the movement and the number of flights through the Cheflavor airport on the Southnes. In line with the above points, the committee suggests a change in the proposal. The proposal suggests that the staff will submit their report to June 1, 2018, but the nature of the case suggests that this will mark the date on December 1, 2019, where June 1, 2019, to ensure that sufficient time is needed for work, while the committee takes place, though the importance of the work group's work is accelerated as far as possible. The Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the changes that have been reviewed and, as noted earlier, the staff will submit a report with results no later than December 1, 2018 and that Prime Minister introduces the results of the work group. Does the committee think it is very important? Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, who was away from the case, signed this in accordance with the authority on the standards of regular committees. Jón Gunnarsson was away from the hearing. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who's an audition officer for what? The Environment and Transport Committee, under which Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Helga Helgadóttir Guelga, Bergþór Ólason, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Linniika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason,
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u34	Mr. President. Finally, proposals to look to the council specifically, proposals to evaluate the status of the so - called special communities that have been highly ambiguityed in recent years and decades. The Southnes'representatives have established a budget committee for years to point out that it is wrong to give when the money is divided between parts of the country and that Southnes have not been truthful in this regard. The firm Aton made a detailed analysis for Smokeytown's financial contributions to the state's institutions and projects, which the General must take seriously, verify and respond with an action plan to improve and strengthen the state of the Southnes. Many examples suggest that rural communities are right. Interesting is, for example. The example that is presented in the committee's opinion was presented in a sermon. paritaprevir Helga Vög Vala Helgadóttir on the Southern Community Association indication in the review of the proposal that, while the increase in funds for the Southnes Institute of Health was 1% per year with a 0.5% economy requirement, the population grew by 15%. Such scrawls clearly affect health services with the Southnes, and I'm not talking about when the Agency was well funded for this large increase. Obviously, this situation has been affected by the service of the South American Health Organization. The Convention concluded that a panel of representatives of the state and rural society will be appointed as a collective subject to the Southern Community status of the population in terms of population growth and structure, to investigate the social impact of population growth, and to make a special assessment of whether regional financial contributions have followed the development of the Southnes, whether social or economic. It is also necessary to evaluate the effect of downstairs in tourism and fewer flights through Keflavík Airport on the rural areas of Southnes. When this proposal was proposed in the fall, WOW's fall was not identified, and it was not obvious what was at hand, but now it has been added to places to be evaluated and will suffer on the inhabitants of Southnes. The arctic airport, for example, is the largest workplace in Southnes, and its situation has a major impact on communities. It is therefore important that changes, whether in recent years or in current recession, be assessed systematically. The union made it its priority during this council to get the highest power. A government to implement a timed plan to improve the situation of the South American rural society. I'm the 1st traveller, but this time I've got members of the South Continental Association. The proposal has previously been proposed by the Group of Congress, but it did not succeed. Now the motion comes first simply because the Conspiracy chose the matter as top priority, both in the fall when I made the decision to do so, and now it comes to committees, and now to the passing of council agreements, when the Conspiracy took the case out of the committee to approved it. Otherwise, the day would have come, and it is sad to think, but what a cause for joy that we have managed to settle the matter! In fact, it is appropriate that the case was done by an equal, for the matter is to settle the state of the Southnes, whether among different groups of society or with other parts of the country. The Southern people deserve to be looked especially on in that part of the country as they have been calling in years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u35	Mr. President. I'm going to allow me to celebrate the release of this council agreement by all the members of the Parliament from that time. Environmental and Transport Committee. There is no need for a polygraph on financial status in Smokejanestown and more rural areas in Southnes, but it is not necessary to remind that the situation has been dealt with with with with significant success on the part of the rural society recently. Some hrines have crossed Southnes. It will also not be explained here and now, but it will be repeated that there is high hopes in the work of the body of the body of service to which the decision is taken, and then I must tell Mr. President that the solidarity of all members of the council who are on this council resolution is the confirmation that the matter is important and requires not only the overwhelming but also the overreachable solutions that will reveal us at the time. I'm not going to have these words more than repeat that I am very pleased that the proposal was successfully completed. I'm pretty sure that if she had borne it in some other way, she would also have gained the support of many members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u36	Mr. President. I agree with what's happened. Councilmen, I'm glad that this proposal is now being granted. One might say that she was waited a long time, since the need was urgent. There is no condemnation of population growth in Southnes, which has brought great pressures on society's infrastructure. In particular, thanks to members of these rural communities, who have done a great work under great pressure to meet all the demands and challenges that come with such unprecedented and rapid population growth as in the South. The percentage of people from abroad is very high in the South. It is also accompanied by a lot of pressure from elementary school, high school, etc. Unfortunately, it cannot be said of the government that it has done especially well in the troubled Southnes. We know this, and this has been seen in talks and publications, including those in the United States. from the presidents of the city of Rhines, that the government has not been successful in following up with funding and increase as a result of this population. I speak specifically of the Southnesia, law enforcement, and high school, these are all government agencies who have had to face this great pressure but who have not come to understand enough from the government in this regard. This recommendation includes: To carefully review how the government's financiers are being conducted to these Southnes and to evaluate whether the budget has followed the development of the South American countries. I don't think that was the case, and it's been demonstrated by Smokeytown, including with a very careful report. Part of this group is going over it, and that's just a good thing. I welcome this proposal and, of course, I welcome the initiative of the United States of America on this matter. I'm one of the motion carriers, and I'd like to commend myself. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for her conduct in the case. Since the proposal, many things have happened and unfortunately, perhaps on a worse route as regards employment prospects in Southnes. The WOW airline went bankrupt, which has resulted in a massive recession in the arrival of tourists in the country. It should be noted that in May approximately A 24% reduction in the arrival of foreign tourists into the country, and there is the greatest reduction from the beginning of speech, so that this basic nation's work in the air is particularly important to the Southnes. Therefore, it is most enjoyable to have the suggestion made here at this point, since it is truly needed. I agree with what came from the head of the environment and transport committee, and it's urgent that the committee should be returned as soon as possible. There's something else in this also that's disturbing, but I don't see signs in the financial program that these concerns should be addressed particularly in terms of funding to public institutions in the South. However, I want to know that in a financial program that only came out of the printery this morning, a special contribution is expected to up to 315 million each year, reminding me of being conducted in the so - called defense zone that is in the hands of the Landland Guard for maintenance of defense workers at Keflavour Airport. This is an important contribution I would like to commend the government for putting into the financial program. It wasn't there. We discussed the matter on a budget committee, and I have even. as a spokesman for the introduction because it follows a substantial protest on the part of the Atlantic Community, which makes it possible that there is a large amount of money there to be used on a significant maintenance project at the Chefjordur Airport, i.e. Protective parts of the region, then prospective employment. Then there are planned actions by the U.S. Army, which I understand will cause some Icelandic employees to be hired there. The U.S. Army has issued air cover, and the U.S. contractor offered the lowest. I spoke with a representative of the U.S. Navy on this matter, and he assured me that there was a job to be hired and hopefully it will work. It's a positive thing, and it's right here. I thank the government for bringing this contribution in the last half of the budget. This year tour south of, i.e. This large population increase, and I also want to mention the increase in the number of trustees, the pressures on law enforcement have increased, which may have made the public citizen in the area inadequate to receive adequate service because very much time has taken place in carrying out the work there. This is what I have from the directors of the Southnes police department. In this respect, it is also necessary to meet these official institutions with higher financial contributions. What may be the greatest concern is the much more predictable recession in the tourism service and how it develops. There's a little uncertainty about that subject. Tourist officials worry that the contractions will become deeper and greater than the governments plan and more so that autumn and winter are certainly a concern for Southnes. That's why it's very important to me, as I said before, Mr. President, that the committee will deliver as soon as possible but also that the funds have to follow the mission. The committee is expected to offer some suggestions on these matters so that the sooner they get better, the better so that proper action can be taken. Finally, I just want to thank you again for this proposal. I have reason to expect that the work group will offer some practical suggestions that could cause anxiety to arise from the rulers of the country of Smokejanestown and other rural communities in our area and from what we now face, i.e. The intense contractions of the tourism service, so we certainly hope that this group will bring about good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u37	Mr. President. We will discuss a proposal to put the government in order to appoint a group of representatives of rural areas on the Southnes, who would also be appointed by the five specialists from the various councils to implement an action plan to promote the State's service to the citizens of the South and face a large population growth there. The staff shall submit a report with results no later than December 1 after the proposal for a number of months to be completed by the Environment and Transport Committee. At last, it is assumed that the highest. Prime Minister introduces the results of the work group to the General Assembly. Mr. President. This proposal is proposed by all the council members of the Southern District. 1st Transporter is slow. paritaprevir So I'd like to thank my daughter, Oddný Harðardóttir, and especially for using her for this suggestion, as well as for promoting that it was and being the priority of the council on the part of her party. I therefore declare my joy with it and rejoice that it should be, and I hope, of course, because this proposal is pronounced by all the members of the district and from all classes, that the proposal has broad support and is granted in the coming hours. It is a disaster story of how the government has dealt with Southnes over the past few years through intense and repeated demolitions in the region. Since the opening, the number of inhabitants has increased, as indicated by the proposal and in the opinion of the committee, in a way that has not been identified elsewhere. The Kingdom has drawn its feet prominent in all the services and construction of the territory. This has to be fixed. It has been spoken of in recent years, and this is a suggestion that hopefully causes something to happen in these matters because the inhabitants have grown weary of this waiting period. The history of employment development in Southnes has been well known in recent years and has been tore here in the discussion, both early and present, and there is no need for me to repeat it all, but in short, the situation has been marked by a high range of fluctuations in the economy, deep down, and then much down. In recent years, there has been a riot in the area after a strong recession after the 2006 defense team has left, and two years later, the economic collapse, 2008. The defense team was in the area for more than half a century, and the work of the region attracted a little bit of the way the work was done around the joint. In recent years, there has been a lack of such population growth in any area in such a short period of time. There are many factors, both unprecedented growth in tourism and the arrival of tourists into the country, as well as the shortage and prices of apartments in the capital area, so that many have chosen to settle in the vicinity of the capital area where an inexpensive housing has been possible, at least at least. A short time. Its mark is found in the area near the capital area, both in the West, east of the capital area and the south, i.e. ... inNationes, especially there. Thus, population growth has been completely unprecedented in Southnes for many of the past few years. The commission stated that the number of foreign citizens in the area increased by 3,780 over the years in 2010 (in 2010)2018, over eight years. So many would be a fine slice for many parts of the country if such an increase were to occur, apart from the fact that we now live in the territory of over 26,000 people, a large and large area of employment. At the same time, the local government's service has been greatly reduced from population development. What aspects of the Kingdom are being heard? That's even. Health care. The commission says, with permission of the president: As an example, the increase in funds to the South American Institute of Health was 1% a year with a requirement of 0.5%, while the population of the region grew by 15%.156. The increase is 1%, but the population increases by 15%. There's a gap, Mr President, which has to be bridged and it's urgent. There is also the part of the school system that is in charge of the State, such as. the track school who's complained about the budget. I'd also like to mention the law where, of course, an increase in population and tourism has called for a significant increase in police projects. I'd also like to mention the transport issues, such as the Rhine Way, which is not yet, in 2019, doubled between the capital area and the town of Smokeynes. There are still long chapters with one lane in each direction. All of this requires that the State accepts, corrects these assignments, and this service. Today the effect of the fall of WOW arir on the area is also uncertain over a period of time, but it is clear that the effect is far from being fully affected. Whether this will be a major reduction in tourism in the region is uncertain yet today, but the population has spoken of a decrease in the number of tourists in the arrival of tourists, and it will have an effect. People have lost their jobs and have already lost them, and they are uncertain about what will happen and whether we will clean up in a short or long time. I'm pointing out that Keflavour Airport is one of the biggest workplaces in Southnes, and this uncertainty is the lack of financial contributions from the state to all of the institutions I mentioned and the elements of the government. At the same time as the population growth takes place in the area and in the State's service, far behind that development, the local rural communities were under law 13 years ago to give the State a discount of real estate fees to the government's former defense areas on Ásb bridge. It should also bear in mind that this provision did not come from its own past for good because all these real estates came into the State's arms for a moment. What has happened since then? Since then, the government has sold these assets and has provided billions of dollars for them. At the same time, the Kingdom draws its feet into the construction of its ministry in the area. This works in reverse, Mr. President. The state must certainly dress up for service to the inhabitants of Southnes, and I have the hope that this proposal, if it is approved, and that the work of the assigned group, which will be expected to produce the results of December 1st.nk., the capableness to arouse the state of health that it has been in this area and that the results will be given on government construction, on health care at Southnes, in improved transport, in strong educational institutions, and in promoting law - enforcement in the area to the benefit of the people. Actually, Mr. President, only the government is asked to provide a reasonable and reasonable share in the service and building up of the areas below that of the region. So saith I, and hope to have this matter done before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u38	Mr. President. I agree with the positive notes that have been made regarding this synonym, which is similar to that given during the last assembly on the side of the United States. Today, all the council members of the South District are on the motion. This is a pretty good example of each class working together, but it's also an example of approach that I don't really want to get stuck in, that it's just the members of that body of Congress that's going to take over the case. I'd like us to look at our whole country, no matter where we live, at least. We will do so in a paradise that our voters and our people, no matter where they are lived, have to put our arms around them. I've got a lot of contact with Southnes and South American things, and it's important to me to see that certain things are done. At the same time, I would like to underline a request and give thanks to the carriers of the bill for maintaining this case because it has to be done. They need to respond in a rapid and immediate way, since in some respects the government has not been successful in the process when it comes to solving the problems associated with the uncertainty of the country's economy, especially by the fall of WOW. We can now see this on key diagnostics, such as, for example, in Arion's bank, predicting that in the autumn the pressures will be more intense, there may be increased unemployment and other factors that will result in the contraction of tourism. Of course, it is Southnes that we need to be especially careful. As we have seen in the previous articles, there has been a population explosion. The increase has become more and more rapid, but it has not been taken into account the growing pressures of health institutions, law enforcement agencies, and other institutions, such as school, high school, Ásbek, also in the region. I'm especially glad that this proposal has come this far, that she will also be decommissioned at the council later today. I hope this isn't how the government will stay when this proposal has been approved that it's just fine, and then it's so rotten. I don't want this cooking. There must be immediate action, and we must be ready for what may fall, especially in the South. It is these uncertainty times that we need to figure out and begin immediately to take some action. What can the government do? It can support the institutions of the South Sides. We have also suggested that we face the decline, and we have specifically decided that we should take on intensive transportation. We've decided we're supposed to finish for 2022, get ready to finish the Smokey Lane, and some other projects, including The earth's natural tan and its dangerous course, from the Viking to the mouth of the glacier. This is what we're supposed to do in this area, especially in the Southnes, to prevent uncertainty, discomfort, and problems from occurring in that area more than we need. Especially do I encourage those in charge to keep the government involved. Sometimes it just can't help. So I strongly agree with this proposal and will vote for it. I thank the Committee for further work, but I also recommend that the committee follow this immediately in the fall and ask: What have you done since the motion? What has been put into the process so that we can form a clear message into Ásbrön, give a clear message into the Southnes University of Polyglot, Southnesia, etc. so that the Southns are given clear answers to the issues they face. It's a good thing, it's a good thing it's been a long time, and I'm rooting for it. This situation, however, should not lead everyone to conclude that everything has been set in motion. This is not the case, and it has to be followed, and it is our part at the council, especially the government parties, to ensure that real improvements will follow in the Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u39	A respectable president. I'm glad we're discussing this important suggestion as a matter of fact. Harðardóttir It is well with the majority of the members of the district. It has been fun to participate in this proposal in the proceedings of the council and in the matters covered by members of all elected judges and ministers and members of the other members of Parliament. I'd also like to thank the arrival of the local, rural, and its staff, and especially for the work they've put into it, both preparing for the work here and also calling attention to the situation on the Southnes. They have done so by means of the report, and they have been diligent in visiting the Ministry and the staff of council to present the situation and the information they have acquired and inform members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament in general about this situation, as this is of utmost importance. We also discussed this in the community plan, as it was discussed here, how important it was not only to deal with fracture risks based on the idea that there was a decrease in population population and that there was not much work to be done in but also to reach them as a growing area. Southnes are and have been large in growing areas. Although this may only have been slowed down, there is still much growth and growth. I have strong faith in this, although now only slowing down and increasing unemployment. It should be noted, then, that what may be different in Southnes than in other areas of the country is the high level of construction and high level of work there, but the staff in question may have considerable extracurricularity. Those with the highest paid jobs in the Southnes live in the capital area, but they do not quite fit in the Southernnes themselves. As a result, throughout history the average Southnes'wage has been considerably lower than in other parts of the country. This makes it even more difficult for the rural areas of Southnes to cope with the growth and activities involved in this great structure. In the South, the number of people on one side has increased, resulting in great growth pains. When there is an increasing increase in population growth, there is an even greater rate of growth pain. In this regard, I would like to mention transportation, as well as public service, such as health care and law enforcement. It is extremely important to deal with this and to prevent this trend from continuing, that the average wage is lower in Southnes than anywhere else, the education system must also follow. It must be a powerful education system. When we go to the work that this synonym suggests, and when we are generally looking at these areas in the regional and other areas, we need to remember that it must be a powerful foundation service, and the rural communities need to have the volume to cope with this great growth and development. This population also differs from many other rural groups in terms of the high percentage of immigrants. This makes population development more diverse, and as a result, there are other challenges that need to be met. This is the challenge that governments, both governments at home in the provinces and the government, can work well out so that society can develop to the best, that we can make the most of the people's strength and guarantee them the greatest welfare. In this context, I'd like to mention that students in the middle schools of Smoke are of more than 60 nationalities and speak more than 45 languages. It follows that it is more challenging than having students with the same background and language. This also leads to other government agencies, such as law enforcement and health services, social services, and other things. As a result, it often takes more time to do the projects and provide the help needed to provide the local population, to take other steps, and to get more information from different backgrounds. The project is bigger but still equally important. We need to be able to cope. In this context, I would also like to point out that this and this development in the region may be primarily the development of public property. Then I will first name Istavia, the Cheflavor Airport itself, and the business around him, belonging to the public. In that area, growth has been the greatest. The area in which the airport is located, and the Kadeco Development Society has the means to own mostly the state and public property. There has been extensive marketing, development and structure that are well and important, and we as citizens of the South are to welcome all of these activities, both the construction of the Chefjordur airport and the rest of the Kadeco area. Those who are involved in such structure, possessions, and are increasing their value need to take into account the growing and developing society in which they are growing. I just want to point out that it is the state itself that has the means to direct economic and economic interests and is politically responsible for the success of this structure. Therefore, I welcome an agreement that is established between local and financial organizations, on the future of Kadecos and on how the area will be created, the so-called structure plan, and how to use these opportunities and markets, what we want to focus on making use of the area. It's very important that there's a good conversation between local rural society, which makes them a spokesman for society in which the development and structure take place, as well as the owner, the State itself, and its founders. It is very important that this conversation is guaranteed, close and much, and that these people have common goals on how we want to see the area and the community there build up and develop so that we can build a strong and good society that is economicly important for Iceland all and state funds. That's very important. If we all use the tremendous opportunities the Southnes have, we can increase the well - being of all the people of the country if we maintain the right to the cards. I hope that in the partnership around Kadeco and in the Committee that will be set up following this council proposal, people will see these opportunities and will agree to reach them and build up and see what it takes to build up there. As we have seen during the discussion, Southnes have found it difficult to cope with this growth site, institutions, and others have not received the same contributions as elsewhere. Then I just want to point out that the Southnes have often had a measure of envy or prejudice about being so close to the airport; it has been thought that since Southnes had an airport, they need no more attention or assistance. Tourism and tourism development have affected a bit. It's, for example. Said that since more than 90% of the tourists arrive in this area -- everybody thinks it -- but it's actually been the other way around, it's been more difficult for Southnes. Since Keflavík is often marketed, as well as so forth, the tourists have not stopped much in Southnes, but the rural areas in Southnes, and the companies have shown tremendous initiative in tourism and tourism by being the first member of the country to make the so - called destination analysis to determine how we will receive tourists and ensure their survival and protection. It is the initiative of the local and local rural areas to get the UNESCO witness for the UESCO sector or on the surface. It should be a celebration, and I just want to say that the Icelandic government has not been able to do that. This is totally the initiative of the rural society, and is extremely important and will be crucial for further development in the future on the work there, to have this UNESCO witness in the area. In addition, rural communities in Southnes have also organized so - called regional systems. In this local organization, communities have joined together on where they want to emphasize their structure. They don't have their own community asking for big ships and fishing, they've just decided to have one major ship crew in Helga, and two fishmen, one in Sanddork, the other in Grinsavík. Of this, they have joined together and more, such as where they're going to have different industrial areas. This is extremely important. I feel that the government should show them gratitude for the initiative they show in setting their priorities and uniting for the practical structure of infrastructure. So instead of saying, "Hey, you don't need help because you're so close to the airport, it's important that these roads be built up now, both the Smokey Ways and the harbor edifice because you're so close to the airport. It just doesn't apply there, you have to deal with it. More attention and further cooperation between government and community on the Southnes are called at the airport. The police are faced with great challenges, and I have experienced as a former police officer in the area how much law - enforcement the international airport is taking to heart. Hence, the increase in the financial growth of the border protection is to be celebrated, up to a billion in recent years. It will strengthen the law on the Southnes tremendously, and hopefully it will be possible to promote the law - enforcement force at the same time. It is of utmost importance that this happens, since there has been a great increase in traffic rates at the airport in South York City. It's important, and I want to reiterate it. That is why it is also true, as it were. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir earlier said that such a matter is not just a matter for members of the Southnesia or the Southern Cathedral but for all of us, the members of Congress. If you succeed in building this job opportunity on Southnes, if you succeed in building a good community and making good use of opportunities to live with society, it will turn out to be in the best interests of the entire population. Now there's more unemployment, and I'd like to come into it before I take it that the fall of WOW has had an impact all over the country, and especially on the tourism, which has a higher impact on Southnes because serving an entire home base airline requires much more service and work than direct tourism. This also plays a major role in exporting companies, many of whom work in Southnes in fishing roads and fish farms, their cargo. There is much that comes from being a service associate for a whole airline, and the work at the airport itself is connected with an enormous number. More than the usual travel services affected by WOW's fall, these objects are affected. So there's a large shield for a South American public company that was serving the airline and their employees in the business and, hence, all of the community. This should be kept in mind, and it has been added since the discovery of this council arrangement. The future is bright in Southnes. I have full faith in it. But there are many challenges along the way to make that bright future possible. We must be ready to meet these challenges and be well prepared. That's why I'm celebrating this matter and I hope that this world of Congress is united in this and that we can make good things happen together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir I've got a new Oddný Harðardóttir for leading us to the council members of the South District in the excellent language presented here. It is very important for us to follow the committee's opinion, to emphasize that our community is in the South. It's not long since I gave a short talk at the council about the situation in Southnes, and I'm not going to repeat it all, there's no need to do it, but it's very important to shed light on the problems of health institutions, schools, and transportation, but we can't forget how much good things are done on Southnes and the situation is good in many ways. In recent years, more than 20 billion a year have been used in construction at the Cheflavor airport, which has maintained an extremely high level of employment in the region, and the number of jobs has increased dramatically despite the shocks that occurred during the last winter of WOW. I also note that there is an enormously powerful fishing route in Grinsavík and Gardi and Sandmaker in the new town of Southnes. It would be a fine assignment for this committee to point out a better port in the town of Southnes to accept the ships made out of a community. I think the Southerns can hold their heads up. Actually, butter drops off every piece of leather, every opportunity for every step, and the opportunity for it has to be taken. It is a vastly powerful community in Southnes with a town of Smokeynes in the power of a company with 140% in debt and, of course, a completely changed position for the population. It is of utmost importance that this situation exists in that rural society. The rest of the countryside, I think I can say all of them, stand very well, and although we want more tourists, we now have one of the country's most feared resorts, the Blue loo, which arrived last year about 1.3 million visitors, even more than that, were at least In 2017, it says all about the magnet that the Blue lager is, and of course, it draws a lot of people into the area. We see many opportunities to travel, riding, and other new ones in Grinsavík are of great importance to the area, but we want to see more. Boats are made out on a sea pole and a whale inspection, and this too is important. A great service is being done in the area, and of course people in that area, such as other places in Reykjavík. So I say that the proposal we have here is very good, and hopefully it will be a piece of paper that comes from her last December to keep working on good business in Southnes because Southnes are good territory, that's a growth site. There's a lot to do, and despite this blow that's now, we can't let it blind us. The area offers so much. This time, I'm going to do it, since many have spoken and we're close to the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u41	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party for Sigríður On. Andersen, 1st. Smoke. So, can't do any Senate work in the near future. A letter has also been received by the vice president of the Governing Body of the left movement ◯ Green offering that Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. That's the north side. "I can't attend next week. So today, on Wednesday, June 19, take place at the General Assembly for the 1st Apostle of Independence in the District, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, and 3rd Apostle at the left movement's list, Óli Halldórsson, a member of the Arts have announced pasturs. Both of them have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u42	Mr. President. In the United States, we feel that there are still many questions left in this matter that would have been desirable to give longer time to examine and answer before these laws would be established. We also believe that this opportunity has not been used to increase the country's income for the use of its common resource by setting one third of the macroclotans at auction. It also did not take the opportunity to make half of the money available to the rural society. So we'll be on the red side of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u43	Mr. President. We vote for sharing on the mackerel. From 2008 onward, fishing has been directed by regulations. The project is now being assigned to the 10 best years of the last 11 years of experience. Dissatisfaction has been with the reference years of those who started fishing on a line and a hook later when a mackerel began catching on the shores of the country, and the boats would not have developed comparable fishing experience. Left greens have been warned of the bill and have proposed changes to meet these views. That's what's been taken care of. There will be a 4,000 - ton tenet set up for boats caught on hooks, which greatly increases their share in the overall involvement of macroil. The fishing fleet will be divided into two groups by fishing instruments and the supply will be banned between their systems, but species transfer allowed. I think it's a big improvement, but I'm sure not everyone will be content with their share more than has been about the control of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u44	Mr. President. It is clear that the large structure itself is taking on the value of the mackerel, making it truly valuable to the mackerels and the catches that can be obtained through the fishing. It also tells us that the issue is not finished, that it needs to be won better. We have made a clear suggestion on the use of time for the collections and market recovery divisions. We were to take advantage of this opportunity now and share it with the people in the mackerel. It hasn't been done. Nothing has been done to try to make peace with this important industry, and that is why we say in Recession - because of it. that the matter is incomplete, the future is not to be looked forward to, nor is it to consider the nation's short and long - term interests - no to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u45	President. We're against this case. It has been stated in the Committee that there is a possibility that a constitution could not pass this route regarding the mackerelquathane, we could continue to be in the position of paying. The state has been judged accountable to the extent of the distribution of macrovota, i.e. what taxpayers are going to have to pay for it. Already, December 6th, the Supreme Court has been judged to have such an obligation. As the situation has been held, we receive people according to this approach to the quatans by hunting experience. It is not yet true that 5% per year slowly moves towards the nation and the nation receives the market price for it, i.e. Real value on the resource, but it's also biting our heads off with the fact that we can be put into the position, even with this case that is approved here, to be improved again, so that we can both use our resources, not according to market value, but something that politicians decide, and then have to pay the same resources that were used by the state fund for not using it as they prefer. This is what's being approved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u46	Mr. President. Unfortunately, our proposals for change in the United States and Pirates did not succeed in the 2nd. this case, which would have been a great improvement. That's why we paid a vote for the change in the rest of the section yesterday. However, we feel that it is very important that we pay at least Any price for the use of the nation's resources, so we won't vote on the case now but sit by, because we would have liked to be different, paid resources, and part of it to the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u47	President. Soon, at the work of this fine subject, a problem arose. The employment committee, together with others, concluded that it would be wise to have a comprehensive review of all currency. It's suggested in this bill. However, it is suggested that the time given for the overall review, however, the bill will take effect, and the receipt will start accordingly. It is a formula for the revision hidden in the bill, i.e. In particular, some factors that have been mentioned by many are considered, including Yeah. Councilmen of the smaller parts, state income divisions and rural communities, how best to promote environmental management, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u48	V.E.G. President. In the Middle East, we look at the bill rather positively, as this is a temporary arrangement taken for review after a year and a half. Similarly, Norway's White Book is expecting their outcome in terms of fish fire, so we will vote with the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u49	President. I'd like to direct the people to observe when the review is two years from now. It was very illuminating what appeared on the committee yesterday when the committee was introduced by a interest group, a fishing organization. This should be revised, and now they are crying that there may not be any current business conditions, and the risk assessment is the narrow and long-term assessment to ensure that nature is not being treated badly with this industry, with fish farming that can be done to the most important degree of naturalism. Now they're saying that this isn't big enough for what's being done right now and you just wait and see what's gonna happen in two years. Then it will be said: " Either we need to get bigger or we'll have to reduce this price, we'll just don't get through it. So the matter is now being resolved for us, and all of us consider whether it is a good thing. They're justifying the fact that after two years, it's gonna be a mantra that's gonna be sung in here. Just wait and see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u50	A respectable president. I come here to keep my typical vote under this team. Once again, I'd like to say that this has nothing to do with the fine people now granted the citizenship, but I'd like to reiterate my comments with the procedure that is being done on citizens' rights in the way we do it. A former justice minister had suggested that these rules be revised. Now I do not know what will happen, since - although it is indeed a Minister of Justice at work, I expect this assignment to await a new Minister of Justice whenever he is appointed. But I'd like to reiterate that I'm going to be with this vote, just as I've been doing on this matter so far. It has nothing to do with people who gain citizenship. Rather, it continues to criticize the work done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u51	A respectable president. In view of what happened. I don't think that today's work is good. So it's not easy. It's undisputed. The exact mechanism to change over time needs to be seen, in particular, by a global and educational committee at the next assembly, where the committee has been discussed with a bill that will then sharpen various rules and change them. It's a discussion we can handle at the next assembly. It would have been impossible if it had been successful during this council, but unfortunately it did not work out. However, I would like to say, I would like to say, that it is not possible to eliminate the process that has basically taken in this routine by the General Assembly. It's simply not that people are able to fit so much in a box. In my opinion, it's at least I don't think it's time for next time. But I vote with the case, hoping that as many people do too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u52	Mr. President. We vote on a food safety and protection programme. This is a 17 unit action programme, and I believe that with the approval of this concluded resolution proposal, a solid target for domestic production and national health is ensured. The operation is very varied. Most of them will be ready when the bill takes place on January 1, 2020, while others are ongoing projects, like those involved in the competitiveness of domestic food production. The task never ends, but the competitiveness of the Icelandic agriculture will be most assured by its well - being over imported food. I want to use this opportunity to thank our special expert in the processing of this case, Kári Gautason, a scientist in the agricultural field, for all the help we have received in making this case the best possible. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u53	Mr. President. We vote for an action programme to match the risk of unheated import into non-unheated raw meat and unsolved food. The central Party's position is that we support the counter measures as far as they can go. Despite this programme, there is no justification for accepting this import, but rather the attempt to minimise any risk and potential harm caused by this import. We feel that measures are necessary not only now but always, but we do not think they are going far enough. There is strong uncertainty that counter measures will help to ensure the protection against any animal diseases that we need. They're poorly timed, their financing is uncertain, and they're lost. We emphasize that a minister will keep the General informed about the preparation of the procedure. It is important to postpone the hearing until January 1. so increasing space is put in place to prepare the procedure. The central category emphasizes that stakeholders will be informed and have actively participated in the preparation and process so that the measures can be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u54	President. That's a good suggestion. This has to do with the import now being allowed on farms that should have been done long ago, but the judgment of the EFTA Court has been dropped and this import had to be allowed to benefit the consumers. In addition, counter measures are needed to ensure that antibiotic resistant bacteria are not distributed in Iceland's livestock, etc. That's very good. I asked all members of the committee: Are these counter measures necessary and sufficient as counter measures to prevent the risks being discussed? The need for all of them is made clear by the Food Institute and must be done prior to the law's induction. Their induction will now be postponed until January 1st. As a result of this resolution of the counter measures under consideration, a report is being made to the Council of November 1, so this is well on time. [[The president calls.]] This is well done, and there was a solidarity on the committee, and according to our experts, these measures are sufficient to import unhealed meat. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u55	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote on a series of measures that are very important to the safety of all food and protection of farms and public health in the country. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you. Workaholics for hard work on the case and for all the others involved in it at various levels. I know a considerable amount of work there, and I think it is extremely important that these actions are now in a special Senate resolution that makes them so much different from if they were in a report or a committee as originally indicated. I'm especially celebrating this phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that the proposals available in the Senate arrangement have been completed for two years with the arrival of a number of people in the Ministry, members of Congress, and stakeholders. This has resulted in a broad convergence, and I want to thank all those who have contributed to this work. It is wrong to assume that these actions are poorly timed or not financed this year, etc. It's all in the right direction. In view of the words that fall here, the work that is taking place there is a great and broad agreement to protect our country's public health and goods, as well as to see how we deal with the decades - old issue that the Icelandic government should have done long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u57	A respectable president. I'm gonna let me talk about myself as a consumer and as a food manufacturer. As consumer and food producer in one word, one sentence, I welcome the synonym. I thank all those who have come to this job. I was so lucky to have a little share in it, too. I just want to say to those who claim that the farmers of the country are disturbing, painful, and angry about what is being done here, that it is wrong. [[Foreground: They are.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u58	A respectable president. The debate on sexual autonomy was the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, with permission of the president: All too often, though, the years do not necessarily improve the rights of a person. We see it all over the world. In order to improve the rights of people, political courage is needed to make decisions. It takes a political will to drive those decisions to the end... Mr. President. I see on the board that a majority of the members of Congress have a political courage and willingness to set out on a joint and cross - political project to really improve the rights of many people. Together, we can take away the legal discrimination against disabled people and people with mental illness. I am very pleased, Mr. President, and I am grateful for the desire of the council to begin this vital task with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u59	Mr. President. A review of this and, in fact, more matters of the General and Education Committee during the winter, found that a number of the legal bodies involved in the legal or legalization of individuals needed to be revised. The General and Education Committee discussed some details on these factors, but it is clear that more aspects of this need to be considered. The proposal, and it is a vote, assumes an order by the Council Committee that will consult with the principal government and stakeholders involved in these matters. I think that although this channel in preparing a bill is somewhat unusual, it can be a successful way to approach a subject that I think all of us are supposed to be able to get together. I support this and believe that the matter has been led to a very successful course with the release of the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-125.u60	Mr. President. Finally, the General has agreed to look specifically to the Southnes, to evaluate a position of special concern. In recent years, there have been too many fluctuations in job life. In fact, members of the local community have often been assigned a financial committee to show that they count the area as a place of government spending. Although all other members of the southern district are members of the Parliament, the union made the suggestion that a priority might be made. It's only because the Conspiracy made it a priority that they came to the committee and came out of the committee for approval today. It is, in fact, appropriate that this be done by equals, for the matter is to equalize Southnes'position, whether between groups or to other parts of the country. I have high hopes that the project that the Allied council has forced to attack will bring a fine benefit to the Southnesians.
