ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that's what we're talking about. A member of the council came to a very important point in this regard when he mentioned that such persons do not get out of this kind of project without murmuring and without being satisfied. That's why I think that even there was a reason why these companies would appeal to damages, and that's why people are faced with the fact that half of the mission was committed to us to carry on the sea cable project. This brings us to the point where there is clearly tremendous pressure from the interests of our not going to this stage to place some stone on the street of the project. Then you ask: " Where was this discussion at home at the time, especially when it becomes clear that it seems easier said than done to get us out of this assignment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u2	A respectable president. One of the suggestions to postpone these matters all until autumn is that with this list called and the IceLink project, my understanding is that it is updated once a year and that it is in the autumn. There is yet another argument, then, in the process of postponing the whole case to the fall and seeing how these developments have developed. Men do not run from assignments they have access to, such as these that are capable of enjoying a large amount of governmentism; they do not let go of such murmuring without yielding. I think it's perfectly clear, but we'll see this in the fall if I correctly understand that the art is updated then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u3	A respectable president. The Industrial Association's review of a three - pack of energy shows up in section 7, by permission of the President: ▪ On the basis of reasons, SI suggests that in the field of the EU, the fourth energy package [...] is already under far more extensive regulations than the first energy trays, including the wide range of external and energy sources, such as energy efficiency of buildings. Then, according to the review, there are underlying interests that need to be considered specifically and that have further appeal to the local situation beyond what they say about this third energy package. What I'm only worried about is that I feel like the industrial organization has not seen the clear link between every pack of energy. We'll see when energy pack two, i.e. The second energy directive, introduced, was made in a way that the European Union says that there is no need to provide any extra access from the next Directive, number three, because the introduction of the others has been so successful. As a result, if we produce a third energy package, as expected by skin and hair, it will be more difficult for us to look after its interests in the European Union, as this is the case by the European Union of industry, then we will have taken yet another step into this common energy market. Although industrial organizations name only one point, i.e. In terms of the energy efficiency of a building, which, of course, is a huge case for us Icelanders, at least. seven other things that change. I mentioned earlier tonight that among the things that are to be converted into a pack of energy, we are expected to produce now. We haven't made it because we haven't finished a pack of three yet. There are types of changes that have taken place in the European Union. We can put it in such a way that we know that the thing we think will change. He won't be the same tomorrow as he was yesterday, but we're not going to do anything about it. We are not going to learn more about why he changes. We are not going to learn what it will do if it changes, etc. I think it's very comforting, and I would have thought it would be wise for the followers of this case to request a detailed presentation and an autopsy on the changes that will occur during the induction of the fourth energy package. Another thing I haven't completely figured out about Iceland, it may well be that this part will be overlooked but there is no evidence to suggest that, if this applies to us in the EEA, the English language of ◯risk-preparedness, by permission of the President's permission, the Regulation on the energy market risk management requires that the countries in the European Union, if this applies to us in the EEA, prepare to deal with the potential energy crisis in the future and establish an appropriate strategy to prevent it. The new Regulation also requires that the European Union uses the same methods to identify all that could possibly lead to energy cohesion and then prepare a risk management industry. That will mean that the Kingdom will have to work together as one. In short, the new Regulation will ensure maximum risk management of potential energy crisis. Now I'm curious if this is going to apply to Iceland. So, what will Iceland's role in this operation in energy crisis? Will we be able to set up some kind of equipment for ourselves, or will we need to be able to cope with the overall situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u4	President. This was an interesting talk about the appeal of the European Union and how one leads to another. I thought of an interview taken by the British Daily Telegraph. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, a very good interview, Mr. President. I encourage the president to read that interview. But I want to say something bad. A senator who previously signed him out of this interview asks him if he agrees with the opinion expressed here. It sounds like a reason. While a senator is on the same page as here, since the matter is Icelandic, I intend to use the news on the business magazine that reports the interview. This report comes from April 23, 2018. By permission of the President: ▪ The European Union considers our independence to be a cause of trouble, to be observed by Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson in an interview with the British Telegraph, who considers Brussels authorities to be taking more and more power over the EEA. It's shocking if the relationship thinks the Icelanders will accept anything other than the present two supporting systems through the EEA. The Icelandic government is not happy with the growing European Union's growing pressure that there will be an increasing number of additional rules, now the last of which is the energy sector and the treatment of food control. He told the European government that the independence of the country is becoming more and more trouble, but he says during the interview that the deeper integration of all parts of the Union is making it difficult for Iceland to take care of its national interests. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with this position. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u5	A respectable president. If the European Union were just a problem, we'd be in pretty good shape, but it's much more than that. But it's right next to the highest. The secretary of finance and the Chairman of the Independence Party, and I agree completely with the words given, and we generals know well, that the European Union is constantly trying to create more central management and to interfere more with affairs to make everything on the common market more uniform and to do it preferably so that they have no idea where they came from and where they are in this relationship, and that energy is an example of it. The European Union aims to make the energy market as uniform as possible and to make it irrelevant where people are in the EEA, they should be able to obtain a certain amount of energy at an existing level, etc. The process, or plan, seems to be to have the obligation of the countries to accept a certain commitment, and we are doing so, with a pack of energy, taking steps this way, towards greater market areas and more media control. These types or laws are being adopted by the European Union and the more we record them, the more difficult it will be to stop and take care of the country's interests or sovereigns. Centrally controlled forces in Brussels are increasingly seeking greater power, that is correct, and not only in European countries but also in other EEA countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u6	President. Yeah, it looks like the trend, but then I have to ask. A senator in particular into one sentence by the highest degree. Secretary of finance for this interview. The European Union's growing pressure on the rise to an increasing number of additional rules will be stated to the government. A senator has done much about this - last of all because of the energy and treatment of food control. But in view of the highest. The secretary of finance is concerned about these two aspects of energy, energy, and food management, how is it that the government is now trying to set up all the years against these additional EU energy policies and at the same time has the available bill to yield to the relationship in the field of food control or import of non-efficient meat and non-efficient food?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u7	A respectable president. It is very difficult to imagine what makes the government so eager to yield to the European Union's demands, whether with this so - called fresh meat and unsolvable product or with the energy package. In fact, although a minister announced that this case would be possibly delayed until the fall, because there was nothing abnormal with an ongoing case, the importance of hurrying it through the council is suddenly emphasized. There's no explanation that I've come across all of it, and less likely why you're going so fast to finish this blessed meat. Although there is another matter, I think it takes more time to prepare for what follows. The energy issues have just begun. The European Union will continue in its efforts to create one common market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for his speech, that's a very interesting thought. As I understood, there is a why. A senator is wondering how far you can go and what you can remember, with all this induction and changes that may later include the introduction as this, as by Regulation 347/2013, if I remember correctly, in which the precise variation of the regulations of this induction is required, i.e. Regulation on 713, which is the subject of question. It's been a fact that I don't know how much help a student would be. I'm following Dr. Carl Baudenbacher's good opinion that one of the evidences he puts before us that we cannot have a special opinion on this now is that Iceland has failed to interfere with the decision of the joint EEA Commission to install the package into the EEA's law and that it has only required a more management plan and that it has not been until March 2018, but the country has approved a new architecture of the European Commission's financial system which we are conducting on the basis of monitoring on the role of EU institutions in cooperation with the ESA's third energy package. This issue is totally unrelated, not about energy resources or about independence as such, new as evidence to support the introduction of this matter. [[The president calls.]] How will we protect ourselves in the future if more and more follow - ups are in support of continuing in that course?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u9	President. All I need to do is think about the date. A senator read up here. As far as I know, this case took place for the joint EEA committee in May 2017, i.e. The third energy pack. The question, then, does not change that the question is, Could we constantly be taking in more and more of the possible form of power or independence, gradually taking away our country's independence? I think the answer to that is actually yes. As I have been pointing out in my talks here tonight and today, we can see from the fourth energy package, which has been approved today by the European Commission, the European Union, that there is continuing efforts to reduce power from individual countries to central sources, alter the management process. Part of it's being updated, and there's been an announcement that it should be done, the rules we're now considering entering here, e.g. 72/2009 and 714/ 2009, I think it was. All of this will change under the fourth energy package and it will translate into greater power for this central institution, reduces the possibility that individual countries can interfere with their internal energy market, etc. We can already see this, but still the rest is not stopped and the whole is sliding. That's what I think is so important to do because we have a chance to do it. We don't always have the opportunity to see what's in the pipes. But since we've been hanging out with the third energy package, today we're enjoying a glimpse of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. For one reason I asked, that's exactly what a senator came up to, to see the bigger picture. In an earlier speech, I mentioned Dave Keatings's report to Forbes, which refers to a press conference and quotes Miguel Arias Cañete, the energy editor of the European Union, who complains that despite the flow of power to Brussels in the last two decades, there is still a limit to the fact that there is a further trend. It suggests, in effect, that independence can be done even further in terms of independence rather than with unanimous consent in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] Let's pick it out. A senator's concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u11	President. First and foremost, I'm glad we're not part of the European Union as evolution is becoming, i.e. if, in the case of a man's wish, is to disappear from having everyone accept things in order to accept them, that only more is needed. It is not surprising that it is the request and will of the European Union staff who are working to create this common market with their products of energy. The energy is considered to be as good as any. For us Icelanders, it is more important than the price of a car or milk or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of this talk, which I found very interesting and informative. I'm in a place like this. A senator who before spoke about the compression of power in energy as it is evident that the European Union is now seeking the power that has been present in each capital. Now it wants to move them under Brussels. I think it's most disturbing because the induction we're doing here and two of the next series, one's coming, the other at the horizon, will be sucked into that package. I have put it this way that the European Union is like a spider's web in many respects. The one who is addicted to a way out, as we have seen with our neighboring country, Britain. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator as to whether he is in a similar area as I am concerned, that he is concerned about the vast compression of power, which is clearly becoming, and that is what humans want to become even greater, so that energy issues are going on in the same way and a great number of other complex groups, where it seems that the European Union's Member States no longer have their own will but that all power and influence are sucked to Brussels. I'd like a second's opinion. It belongs to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u13	President. Yes, it has obviously been a policy and will of the Brussels System to promote a greater compression, a greater central control, on the grounds of trying to make the relationship unique, having things as much as possible. I'm sorry - I'm allowing myself to say sorry even though I don't like Iceland working in the European Union - it's a slow and biting process from the European Union. We can even see it. In France, members of Parliament are gradually losing faith that this may continue, that the government, from the state itself, can move on, that it can leave its national council, into some seditious confederacy. And we're on our way here, too, if we don't take advantage of the sources we have to say, "Hey, let's just stay on our feet." That's not what we're talking about. Of course, we should now because the third energy package and the fourth energy package are like twins born every few minutes. Between them there is an enormously strong connection, and they will watch that, hand in hand, grow up together, because it really is the same thing that is happening in both packages; there is an increase in power. The central control is being enhanced. They're making sure that energy will become more commodities. It is being ensured that the countries will comply with the rules set by the European Union in order to control what I have mentioned earlier. That's what this means. And that's what we need to be careful about, because having energy and Iceland is as important to a few countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. It appears in itself that there is a tendency here in the country to take over this power. I think of opposition from today's highest source. The President of the General for a unit of energy at one and two in its own time. He was pretty shaken and prominent, but now it looks like the left green, the highest class. President, have completely turned around, wanting nothing more than to connect with European Union's commitment to energy. It's new that you have to stand here debating with the left-green senators who are very interested in the market of energy. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has any explanation for any repentance that has taken place in this second highly established category.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u15	President. No, I don't have an explanation for that. We have seen individuals who have been on the front of this great political party, the left movement, a green supply, and describe their amazement at the way of the pack, as they seem to blindly agree and take up further energy markets, to view it as each other's products. I am also surprised that other classes of this government are holding the cards, as they do on the basis of what they used to say. I wonder what it is that's capable of responding to the government. Could it be, and I just rolled it up, well. A senator, that members of Congress have found that because the members of the group of members of my section seem to think that, apparently, they will accept this package of energy, members of the Parliament think that they could possibly be absent when it comes to the vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u16	V.E.G. President. In my final talk, I said that I would review the energy package and the spine and the consequences of all of that. I'm here to review Directive 72/2009, which is about the electricity, while Directive 73 is about natural gas. During my final talk, I discussed 33 C.E. ....................................................................................................................... and the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the open exchange the exchange the exchange The 1st issue of this article discusses that each Member State should appoint one national surveillance authority, which would then be the Power Institute in our case. It's number two. Count 35. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Code 1. This article should not affect the proposal of other regional monitoring authorities, provided there is one high-ranking representative in the holding and contact at the site of the Community on the Committee on the Commission in accordance with 1 mg. 14th par. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009 The 4th will stipulate that: The Member States shall guarantee the independence of the government's surveillance authority and shall ensure that it wields its authority of impartialness, which is not abnormal -- and in a transparent way. For this purpose Member States must ensure that the implementation of the surveillance programme shall therefore include this directive and related legislation on the control of the Member State: a) Should be legally separated, regardless of any other public or private authority on the matter of activity In number 2. Section 4. says: ▪ [It] does not seek or accept direct instructions from any government agency or other public or private organisation for the implementation of surveillance projects. This requirement for close cooperation, as appropriate, with other national authorities or for the general guidelines published by the government without affecting observational and duties according to Article 37. ◯ It really means that this authority does not submit to the Commission's office in Iceland, and in this it is a doubt that there is actually a betraying authority, or is doubting whether it is. I'm going to go ahead, with President's permission: In the 5th team, it says: The government can make independent decisions, regardless of all political organisations, and separates annual budgets, autopilots in the implementation of budgets, and adequate resources and funds to carry out its duties, and... In other words, this surveillance officer, the Power Institute, a national rule, should not be subject to any government in the United States, but we are under obligation to fund this institution or this organisation. We are under obligation to contribute to the ability to perform this role, which should then be in great cooperation with the European Union and the ESA, the EEA Monitoring Institute. This problem is crystal in that we are handing over these governmental powers as scholars learn, at least in doubt whether we really keep ourselves in this matter. Because then it's a requirement, and I'll get in on it better about 36. . g., how does this work? But I see that time is running away from me, and as I said in my first speech, I will continue to bring out this argument in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is very interesting to review this new, shall we say, the new role of the Power Agency involved in bringing in this energy package, this EU directive and what it will mean to have here on the land. There's a growing number of employees in this facility, raising funds through budgets, and the Agency is getting a lot of power. But you ask, how has this been done so far? Is this monitoring factor so necessary? That's what you're wondering. The state body, so to speak, has spread throughout the present government. It is and has been a special interest for the government, especially the Independence Party, to expand the state field, which is at the back of its previous resolutions and policy sheet to reduce the state's perspective. So it's a little Spanish for the fact that the outfit supports this, that this institution has more power and higher financial resources. However, I would like to have it either way. A senator knows that this surveillance has been lacking. Is there anything in the process today that calls for such an active monitoring and increasing the surveillance? Has a what? A senator's idea? [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator has studied these matters carefully, I listen, and gave a fine talk on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is to increase the number of employees and raise money from the Icelandic government. Question question. The candidate is concerned about whether the monitoring factor as such is expected to be necessary. The answer is twofold. In the European Union it is no doubt necessary to have effective surveillance agencies to monitor this integration and resolve, which are part of the Community's goals and policy. I understand that. But the European Union's goals and policies are just different and different from what we have as an independent and sovereign nation. I understand this and the main ideas and actions of the European Union, and I have declared in talks that in many ways I am very much impressed with the way the European Union works its laws and regulations and productions in the European Union. There is a combination and harmony in what is being done to deal with the European Union's challenges. But it's about to set up a government. As an independent and sovereign nation, we should not be involved in our controlled authority, which we finance, but we do not submit to the officiating authority of the European Commission. That is my sincere belief and opinion. I'll make comments about that, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and such a good analysis of the situation in the European Union at the time of regular action. However, we are in a position to be a small nation, and the situation here is quite different from that of the European Economic Area or continent of Europe. That's why I think it's obvious that getting so much power, that Power Institute gets this power and becomes a kind of state, is something that doesn't belong to our situation. You are a little worried about how this institution's authority comes about. There is something important to know and what it will do to have in general the electricity sector in the country, the shape of energy policy, etc. If there's any kind of thing here, if I understand this correctly, a message from the European Union in ours, like a why. A senator rightly mentioned, the force field. We're a nation of our own, so let's be absolutely clear. Is it not very unusual that this institution, in effect, receives such power that comes from the European Union, that the European Union should suggest that a certain national institution be given so much authority, and with this connection to the European Union in a state that is not in the relationship? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is now that in Iceland such an institution would be a state of state, as I see it, but in the European Union such an institution would not be a state of state because such an institution would compromise laws, policies, goals and order within the relationship. That may be the key to this, i.e. These little steps you're taking. And by bringing in the first and second energy package, especially one of the energy package, we have actually built a model that makes us look into the power market and the regularity it holds as far as it goes. But we're not connected to the internal power network. Now it is the time for us Icelanders to resist and decide to keep ourselves and control this power of ours. I enter it in my next talk because I don't have time to say what this means, what power and what duties this institution has. It is about exactly what situation those in the energy market should live and what the Agency's projects are to provide the European Union's streets in achieving their goals, and these certainly do not apply to an independent and sovereign nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for this speech. As far as I can see, he's actually getting closer to what has been called the previously unknown agency of authority, which the most skilled lawyers have warned very closely. I have to say, it's natural that the European Union has an enormous formula for me to squeeze into us an institution or the scent of an institution, which I will probably now review the field of work in any subsequent speech. It is a chilling reading of what work and authority this administration, ACER, has in hand and what authority and authority it has. It seems that we are going to take this institution on hand. It will come to my admiration for the European Union. The European Union not only imposes this institution on us but also on Europe for it. It's basically the height of the insolence, it's natural for them. So I've been thinking deeply about the role of this institution and the authority to which it will certainly not be done by the Icelandic government. I'd like to pray. The senator to review his view of this very thing, i.e. The power and impact of this agency in Iceland after we produce this package of energy and how it feels that a source of communication with the Agency will become. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. Question question. The senator is about my vision of the power and influence of this institution, i.e. The European Environment Agency or the administrative organisation here following the induction of the third energy package. The power will be great, and they will be the means where the surveillance agency is literally obliged to follow the European Union's policy and aims, not the policy and aims of the Icelanders in energy, but to put a word in our mouth by the samurai method, or to hang a mill around our necks, since our policy will not be ours, but will be the European Union. We really don't have that direction. And our most skilled scholars have just established that these are actually tools for determining if ESAs, EFTA monitoring, where we have an effect, will actually be the person who can make a decision or make an impression where such decisions really come from ACER if there is an opinion, i.e. that the institution is really over and all over. That's exactly what I'm talking about. A senator in that it is likely that this institution will be the dominant and the European Union's policy will be much more involved in EU policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u23	Mr. President. Something else about this crisis has caused me some concern. It is the power or rights this agency has to set a fine that will be fixed in Icelandic energy companies. I have to say, these fines, at least as they appear to the people here, are in a whole new place, the sums on this subject are of magnitude that you have not really seen such things before. Some now are over the government fines that the Contestance Organization has, for example. You know, hang up here at home, but that's where we're talking about everything else. That's what we're talking about if, for example. In view of this management agency, companies such as Landactivation are guilty of millions of dollars. What you fear is that there does not seem to be any warning lights in the government groups in spite of our best experts'warnings, such as that. A senator rightly mentioned. They seem to wear this energy package on their back through the council, on boots, and quickly, and do not seem to worry about these matters in any way. I'd like to pray for a second. A senator going over this with me, i.e. the resources of this over-national authority to pay fines to an Icelandic power company. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u24	V.E.G. President. I'll take into account what you're worried about. Sæmundsson As soon as I thank him for the answer to this section of the warrant, i.e. on the rights or rights to the decision of the fines, because it is usually so in the traditional government directive we know in the tributary state, that such decisions are all equal in the hands of the courts. We act by law, and the offense must be proved, and we've interpreted the law so far that, whether it's an attorney or an individual, each individual should be innocent until proven guilty. But there is an institution in the state that has power to determine the penalty for a private citizen, most likely a legal body. But it doesn't change the basic nature and content of the trident, which I believe very important that we look into. There's always going further and further in some sort of detourage, I'm asking the President to excuse the wording, i.e. some convergence of power, not of its distribution, and of democracy. I think it's very serious. What's the matter? This isn't a place to worry? Yes, the government is concerned, and many government officials reported only a year ago that they would not follow this issue, but it seemed to have calmed down that it was said that there was some kind of warning here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u25	Mr. President. I must open my speech to congratulate the Seleucians on having won their first international championship in male handball with their decisive victory earlier this evening, 35:25, on a hard-set group of Hawks in Hafnarfjörður. I'd like to use this opportunity to congratulate Selphos Youth Association on this remarkable success. Mr. President. After a quick review of the activation history of our Icelanders in my previous speeches, where I made the shoes so that the story was closely related to the great structure that has taken place in most areas of society, I discussed links with other progress almost at the same time and seemed to be in continuous pace with the rapid development of electric plants. There I stressed progress in job development and technology, which all led to an ever better life span and prosperity in this country. Thus I sought to link our prosperity in the past with the fact that the account of activation was the standard of living today. At the same time, I argued that the Icelanders were closer to their energy resources in certain emotional relationships, in the historical context of the parts. In this context, I pointed out the importance of realizing that this story, Mr. President, has managed some kind of reconciliation to go into the major companies, build a powerful distribution system, and take up the long - term loan. These projects were a huge effort for a small nation, the next nation, in a land that is much of the year in the grips of winter, and the next of transportation. It is important to bear in mind that this reconciliation I mentioned, and I think it is still there today, that the activations and the distribution systems of electricity were in place, and is largely still in public property and therefore owned by the people of all countries. According to all of this, the country may have felt that it owed its price for electricity to be low and, if anything, would be further reduced when the basic cost of activation and distribution systems were largely paid. It was estimated that in 25 years or in the late 1900's, Burding would be paid up. It was reasonable to note that the time when the nation could truly enjoy the fruit of investment was delayed when it was decided to place in other major mines, such as River Valley activation. Mr. President. For these reasons, it affects the heart of the people of the land if they believe that it is too far into this resource that they generally believe is and is to be owned. They strongly oppose the fact that there will be people other than the public in Iceland who will benefit from this resource. Added to this, it is for the above reasons that citizens also believe that electricity should be inexpensive in this country both to the public and to the national organisations, and will not accept anything else. Mr. President. So everything else. The management groups brought this up and said that the reason why the government arrangements could be effectively removed, thereby implementing a third EU energy directive is that we Iceland through legal action of the European Union. All of this looked very good, although few realized the exact detail of such legal matters. When the Central Party repeatedly called for the location of the warning, there was much more to it than the government. During the next few hours, we heard suggestions - Yes, Mr. President, suggestions - and at least Four different versions of where he was and what kind of song he was. I don't have time in this talk to discuss this further, but I will continue this story in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He has given some very good talks, which are a historic overview of electricity production in the country. It is very important in this discussion that we recognize our unique position and the great achievement that has been accomplished in the development of the electricity systems in our country, which we would like to, of course, have everything to say about how to develop in the future. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the basis of the EEA contract, i.e. that the joint EEA committee can give an exception to this package of energy if it is placed in place, but the government does not have the courage to do so for any reason. Some Member States have been given annulled. Iceland has, like, some. has been given the exception of the implementation of natural gas, canals and railroads, legislation that is not relevant for this country. They have not caused any interference with the contract, so to speak, or the four freedoms above their heads. That's why you would have felt there was nothing to fear in the matter of representing the joint EEA committee. But what I wanted from what I wanted. A senator: In view of this, does he feel that there is any objection, is there anything to fear - now a legal question - to present this matter to the joint committee, in view of the fact that there have been many other forms of appointment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this question and question, the offer of the Birgir of Þórarinsson. The short answer is: No. There's nothing to be afraid of going by a contract. It hasn't been. That's a law in the contract that's going to deal with it. Enrollment, or request, from certain types, has a legal way to the contract and has been discussed many times and referred to here. I don't understand any more than what. A senator why men are afraid to go that way, and he can only guess my reasons. I don't know this process of negotiation, how it happens, whether it's some kind of rudeness or considered political difficulty or something like that. But it's in the contract, in the law of the deal. The path is clear if the contract is read so clean and straight. It seems to me if I'm to give my opinion on it. However, there can be a wide range of traditions in dealing with countries. They're strong out there. It is obvious that this has never happened before, that it has not been this way before, when it is so far in the process of going back to the committee, that it has never happened in the 25-year history of the contract. I don't think it's an attitude that goes on because the contract is equivalent even if it's 25 years old and not every article can be tested later. They're there, and why leave them unused?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u28	Mr. President. I think that's a good word of advice. Senator, there's a reason this law is in there. Although it has not been used for 25 years, there is no reason why it should not be used now. Everybody sees it. It's a legal way to go, and hopefully you'll find the conclusion that both parties can enjoy. It is fundamental to all negotiations that both parties agree, that there is no compromise. And in view of their concern for this matter and the disunition within the community in which it leads, of course, to such a course that is then legal, both sides can agree that it is possible to go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u29	Mr. President. I can continue to reason on this subject. Perhaps it has simply happened that the executives have listened to their officials who have suggested that they simply introduce it; it's not serious, and there are some ways in which men can avoid it, and there are no sea cables here, etc. Then, when the legislatures arrive, they decide to go that way, which was the last option in the opinion of Stefán Már and his associates. So when the case comes in to the council, and it becomes evident - very clearly in my opinion - that the legal premise we've been pointing to is nothing but a smidge of something called political fear of yielding. They're late. They didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this talk and for the talks he has given in this discussion and has in itself drawn our attention to the marvelous building work that has become available in Icelandic society over the last few decades. Today, however, it seems that the government is prepared to overdo the progress and building work that has been done for the entire period of this period and to take up an uncertainty tour with this story and this structure. I will enter it later in the night in a talk on warnings and other things, but the inability of the government to read the entire EEA deal causes you both anxiety and resentment. It's like people stopped reading at 100st and 101st. It is as if humans have not been forced into carrying out what is said primarily at 102rd. The agreement to refer matters to the joint committee. I'd like a guess. A senator's opinion on how he is affected by the government in this matter, the lack of courage, and how weak men are about it. [[The president calls.]] I'd like the senator's opinion of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u31	Mr. President. In the last three if not four of my speeches, I reviewed the lead story. The reason I did that is my interest in trying to shed historical light on why the national soul is so deep in energy. It was the purpose of me to get into this and to try to explain myself in the way I did. I think it's very deep in the consciousness of the Americans for the reasons I stated. They worked hard to get to where we are right now. Energy activation has so much to do with the country's general opinion of cheap energy and energy for everyone. We've spread our energy all over the country and into all the mountains and valleys, no matter how long or how deep they are, and people think they have the right to do so. This land is cold and winter is long. It was the light in the darkness, even in the literal sense of that word. That's why they cut so deep in their sense of nationality. But I hadn't answered what he most asked about, the question of discouragement. I don't know if there's a tradition that if they don't mention it at an earlier stage, that they want to be excluded or separated from some type of carer to infiltrate, they don't have the guts to come back later and ask for a release if they haven't clearly mentioned it in the early stages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u32	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. Although some mistake was made at the early stage of the induction of these cases, I don't think it's an excuse for the existing government to stay out of the situation. On the contrary, I believe that the present government should have ambition and courage to correct what they may feel was wrong before. The chance is there. Hv. A senator is a law major but not me, and I ask: Could sending this matter to a joint EEA committee be considered unsatisfactory on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the question. He mentioned earlier government complacency. This should not lead to any future government failure to go back. That's the most natural thing in the world. Governments come and governments go, new governments take over and see that something is not desirable to introduce in this country for some reason, as in this case, and that the most natural thing in the world is that they go back to the joint EEA committee and ask for the details they find appropriate. Why didn't they? I don't think they've figured it out, or they thought it wasn't relevant at all, and it'd be a long time before it was put to the test. The people let it slip by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. Hv. In this speech, a senator has reviewed part of our history by Icelanders in priming matters and the harnessing of fallen energy. That story is closely related to the nation's independence campaign and to our presence here or to the maintenance of our presence in this oppressive land. The reason I believe this case is as important to the average Icelander is exactly this. It is good to recall from the General's talk program that it was a huge effort for a small nation to put these activations back together and to make good use of our vital energy. This story is part of independence and independence. As a result we have activated the fallwaters, we have been able to maintain regional policy and have the capacity to establish a responsible job structure and development. I believe that the opposition of the population to the induction of a three - pack of energy is exactly what is in the story of the little yellow chicken. Here they have sown and dried the grain and grounded and baked, and then someone else will come and eat the bread. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thorddsson for such meditation. It is quite a chorus he entered, linking the entire history of my talks with the nation's independence campaign. That is precisely true when the nation rises from the depths of the dark centuries. It was a miracle next at the turn of the century 1900 C.E. when the Icelanders built in their cold and dark houses, which were often not good for an apartment when the town brook that had passed through the centuries was able to drive machines that so lighted up in the dark houses of the Icelanders at that time. It was like a miracle to these people. The change was tremendous. Of course, in this conversation, I'd like to reiterate that it's just our senators here in this conversation why they don't want to take it to that committee. There will only be speculation, especially if there are no answers in this room for reasons not to do so. This room doesn't answer, and then it's just gonna be speculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u36	V.E.G. President. This review is very beneficial. Anyone who does not want to examine the story is sentenced to repeat it. For those who are not inquisitive or bare - minded rather than the one here, there is one of the best ways to predict the future. We can recall that in the history of this nation, we went through a very difficult time in the past centuries when we did not have ships and upon other peoples, foreign people, with international emigrants, which were the lifeline of the country, as energy is today, in terms of employment development and sustainability. It can be balanced in some way. There are probably some of the most difficult times that the nation has experienced. [[The president calls.]] Isn't that right, huh? A senator, that we need to consider this in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u37	Mr. President. Between what I am adding to my talk, I consider this, which is also why I began to review it. I've discovered, which may not have been so obvious, that almost every human child, at least Those who are only from their teens, in this country, have strong opinions, as I have mentioned, that everyone here should have enough access to electricity. We should have access to cheap electricity, and not only the public, but also the local company. Everyone had the right to power, no matter where they lived. Whether they lived in deep shores or dark dollars, they all had the right to power energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u38	Mr. President. I had decided that the next two talks I would be moving in a direction where I would review the noticelessness that the Icelandic government has found in the introduction of the third energy package, but it's a very good source of information. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason pushed me into reviewing the story when the Icelanders lost their priming rights to foreigners for a while. Whoever stands here is a great admirer of poet Einar Benediktsson's son. In 1910/1918, Einar Benediktsson and his associates had been linked to vast water rights in many countries. That's even. you can point to activation rights and water rights that include Jack Hygiene on the Media, i.e. Fallos, and more waterfalls in the North, but especially in the Þjódra. Regarding this, the poet founded the most two large societies, one named Gillant and the other Titan, and bought up water rights for e.g. All the campaign and its tributary, intending to build a power plant in which the development of Burgurous activation would take half a century later. The purpose of building these activations was to sell electricity for manure production. Perhaps it became the poet to think that his plans for an amazing industrial structure in Iceland were 50,470 years ahead of time. Why do I cross this? Because the partners of Einar the son of Benediktsson in these companions were mostly Norwegian, Norwegian rich, but also English. The poet lived abroad while he gathered and sold money in his interests. He became so wealthy in his business that he purchased the house Cape of Reykjavík and used it as a house of summer, not as a house for his family, but as a house of summer. In addition, he had a residence just outside London in the 17th century C.E., and he had much to do with it. By the time he was at the height of his success, he had sold a large amount of stocks in these companies that one year his income was equal to all the U.S. government funds at that time. It was 1917 if I remember correctly. Why do I cross this? Because, of course, the United States tried to regain these rights. And because I mentioned that Einar the son of Benediktsson was about Fifty years ahead of its time, it is the first time in 1951 that the Icelandic government buys back water rights in the Þjórðar and its tribunals of the then existing part of the Netherlands. Títans's trade had developed in 1914◯1924. The commercial price of the Icelandic government in 1951 for all these water rights was 1.5 million. K. And why do I go through this? We are now lying to take steps toward the removal of Icelandic water rights and activation rights from foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a truly good and interesting speech. Similarly, I agree with that with what. A senator that I am a great admirer of the son of Einar Benediktsson. We know that natural story because of what it is. A senator mentioned our poet, that he is known for selling the northern lights. Now we may not know the truth of that story, but history is good. One thing is certain, Einar Benediktsson was a salesman of God's grace and could surely have sold the northern lights if it had been gone. This, however, shows how things develop. Today we see that as far as it turned out, Einar Benediktsson could sell the northern lights, the northern lights are a lucrative trade on the land today. They are sold to tourists on so - called northern lights. What was considered far - fetched at that time is a lucrative business today. This can be applied entirely to a so - called sea cable. Those who say there's never a cable and that we don't have to worry about it can think about this interesting story. A cable will come. So I referred my first talk to those who claim that he does not show up. It was claimed that the telephone would never be part of the countryside. Thank you. A senator for pointing this out. It would have been nice to have more interesting points because this has a lot to say in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I don't have a specific question for you. A senator, but he may be allowed to move in later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of this matter of meditation. I see that it is necessary for me to spend the morning and other nights discussing some of the poet's poems with me, so we can at some point if we are bored with the lowness by reviewing some of his rarest and best songs. As I mentioned earlier, I reviewed this because it happens that at this time I am reading the Great Belter, the life story of the poet, by Gils Guðmundsson. It is as if by chance in this discussion, I am there in the story that the poet is buying up all this water rights, etc. Then it dawned on me whether this history provides a warning message for those of us who are holding these rights in some way and who are to ensure that they belong to our children and grandchildren and under their authority for the next decades. I began to wonder, because it seemed so easy in those years, 1910/1918, to go through the countryside and buy up the rights, bit for bit, exactly as the European Union is now a bit for the ensuing one energy directive after another, and we're exorbitant to this raw and immediate or immediate as I come by going over to my next speeches when the night passes. This is what set me on fire, that we could use the history of the great poet to avoid Iceland getting back in the same situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u41	President. Thank you. Senator. Those words are widely spoken at the right time. It is vital that we examine the story and learn from it. It has much to offer and guides us in various matters. In this case she certainly does. Let us not forget that getting the electrical energy system in today's situation was an accomplishment. It was enjoyable and interesting to listen to talks at the time. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason in which he traced a fine and short story to build up the electronic energy system in Iceland, beginning with small activations in the Thomsonzes, where there were great intellectuals and pioneers in those materials. There are generations who have contributed a great deal to get us to where we are today. It's very important that people keep this in mind. There's a lot at stake. Now that we have this good electrical power system in Iceland, our lines, our activations, and all this, that ensures prosperity and housing conditions as they take best place in a hardened country, we need to be on guard of these values, these values, these quality of life and living conditions that are unique in relation to geographic conditions. Thank you. A senator for coming in on this. This is a very good and important point in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u42	Mr. President. I also feel that the state of the power system and its production today, which we take for granted, has been taken up since 1965 - I am not minimizing the activations of the Soginium, the Old age, and beyond the first real energy initiatives built here, such as Burgus activation taken in the use of 1967, until we have added the activation of the Þjórúsar here and where there are absolutely amazing efficiency, carbureting of the tunnel with the most incredible manipulmation that has been seen, the steam generation. It's been a while to build up. Why do I say, are we going to overdo this in almost one night - or probably four as it appears? Are we really going to do that? Is the government going hand in hand with international authority that is hard for us to control? If we do not associate with them and meet these governments on our terms? Now I'm about to take a chance on getting signed up here as a isolationist, and that's just fine, of course, we owe each other and our children and grandchildren and the country to decide that there will be no risk that we will lose the influence, control, and treatment of the people who have taken 50 years to build up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u43	President. First thing. A senator named Einar Benediktsson, and his plans I cannot resist. A senator whether he has seen the plans of Einar's proposed activations or stophouses. They are very vivid to what was then a dominant attitude, the attitude that followed among the population, for this resource. They were palaces. These fortresses, or stophouses, were drawn as a hall for human development, and Einar had come to realize, and more and more people would realize that there was a foundation for so great a treasure creation and so much progress in the land that it seemed appropriate for the houses to dwell on the foundation of all that other town to be designed as magnificent buildings. Sadly, they did not stand up as they were drawn. Perhaps later, the design of such stations has become more practitiony or a more practitioner of practitioners. Anyway. This design made it clear that this was the foundation of something large and important for society. But now I just got carried away with it because I was going to ask him why. At the same time, a senator. Let's hope we have an opportunity to ask more about that in the second answer. But I know what you're talking about. A senator with, or has he studied the European Treaty case against 12 countries, against 12 countries, because he has not set up a post-importation campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u44	Mr. President. I'll first guess, and answer him. A senator and thanking him for the counter, I believe I have seen the design that the Titan Society laid to the foundation of Burfell in 1918. Because it has become popular here at the General Assembly to bring all sorts of paper rolls into the platform and to poke in the front of the cameras, it would certainly be worth the effort to appear here in a talk chair with a picture of these manpowers and drive them into the camera's lens of the camera, so that the international nation could see it. Because that's absolutely right. One senator says, this was a vivid example of the intense interest in the poet and his coworkers and how they envisioned themselves, all those years ago, a century ago, that it would be necessary for Iceland to build a major industry. Which really happened to me 50 years later. However, I have to admit it right here and now that I have not seen this European lawsuit against 12 states of tenders. I have not studied or seen documents and that material. So I don't have to let it happen to me to answer that senator any other way. I have to be sincere in that, I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u45	Mr. President. I'm not surprised. A senator didn't see this. This is relatively new news. But I'm going to try to straighten it out later in this discussion by explaining the matter, which is another example of what we are about to expect, this third energy package is likely to succeed. But the reason why I asked him why. This is the case: If this is the case, and we here in Iceland can't attack initiatives with the aim of it in national access, but if all such options are to be offered in the European Economic Area, what would be expected of the benefits of such projects when major European companies, the enviation of environmentally-friendly energy, are able here to offer a water power right here to allow them to so much effort to be content to produce environmentally friendly, renewable energy in Iceland? And I suppose with the goal of selling it on European ears? Is it not possible that, first of all, these companies will have a financial advantage ahead of them, both because of their potential size and because these companies want to achieve environmental energy and even get the strength to reach them? When that was the case and the foreign company, did you achieve these initiatives, what would be of value if the energy was sold abroad? Would this be the most useful job development in Iceland? Hardly. I don't suppose I will. A senator thinks so. [[The president calls.]] But how would this affect them? A senator drew up earlier from the ambition that was for Iceland on energy issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u46	Mr. President. That's where it hits. A senator of a very interesting point. What I had raised by telling this story was that we are in a real danger of even breaking up Landing, dividing up our golden goose, because we're here to be a competition and here to be a competitive market for energy that we're about to establish under the leadership of the left green, as remarkable as it is right now. Perhaps that's what concerns you most. This appeal is seen every day. Foreign companies are said to want to build wind - power gardens. That's what they talk about every day. It is reported that this has been published a considerable amount of research coverts for minor inducers who do not have to undergo environmental assessment. I've previously described in the discussion that the energy this company is creating will probably not be the same price as the energy that we are now producing in our activations. And the question is, Who should buy this energy, and at what price? Is it to be placed in a market within the country, thereby raising energy prices to the public and to the companies? Or do they see investors over there planning that their way out is going to have energy from Iceland within some year? That's what you might be afraid of the most. However, I have not tore this up very much because of the fact that many people sometimes ignore fear propaganda. However, these facts need to be pointed to. They need to be pointed at because they may get more experienced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u47	As noted, the Conventional arrangement is that a person should stick to the subject and not be excluded from it altogether. The president readily agrees that reviewing the activation history is related to energy, so it is reasonable not to comment on it as discussed here. The same could be said of a great deal of drawings made by Einar Ben. some 100 years ago, from a potential stationary facility during the use of Burfell activation. But it's hardly what Einar the son of Benediktsson wrote in general. That's what the President says because of what he's doing. paritaprevir Sæmundsson foretold to bring his collection of poetry to the discussion in the near future. It would be Einar's song on Kappos, which could be applied under energy coverage, but the problem is that it is inferior to Kristján's kvæði on the same waterfall. [[Tentsmiths.]] [[Up front.]] I'd prefer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u48	Mr. President. The person standing here appreciates the fact that the president has given us members of the council a certain amount of space to discuss the dramatic issues below. The president agreed that this story was related here, and I said as a warning example, should be brought into the discussion. But I'd like to remind a president, and he knows natural, that there's at least that. Three songs about Kappus, known in Iceland, one by Matthías Jochumsson's son, speaking of this as a tear on the face of the Lord or something like that. I am familiar with the mountain poet's song, but the master poet Einar Benediktsson was natural pragmatic and saw in the falls the power to be used for the use of the nation. Now I'm going to pray to the highest. The president should not view this statement of mine earlier as a threat to the discussion and to the south. But it may well be that I took the sliding with me, even though it may not be read much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u49	President. Although I can't help making a comment about the fact that the president specifically warns that poetry will be read in the General Assembly chair in view of the history of the U.S. Congress. However, I believe a president, who I intend to keep a few poems, should be able to comment at the highest level. In many ways, for example, the quality of the Kingdom song of Kristján Jónsson is greater than that of Einar the son of Benediktsson. That's what I say as an admirer of Einar the son of Benediktsson. I want to point the top, too. Since he has gone out to these psalms, in the song of Einar the son of Benediktsson, the Tyrandir, which is about energy and production, although it may not be on the green notes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u50	It's a pleasure for the President, the North Parliament, the home man. A senator agrees with the good song that KristjánJónsson Mountain poet makes of Kappos.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u51	Mr. President. What I wanted to do in this speech is how we see that the electricity prices for households will rise with a pack of three energy. I've traced in speeches how national and corporate energy prices increased by creating a energy package one and two, despite government declarations in other ways. I remember when the current industrial minister claimed that energy prices would not rise, and it is also possible from preparation of a energy package one and two at the Ministry of the period, they see letters indicating that the Ministry and its employees did not fully realize that consumer energy prices would rise. It is natural in this respect that citizens of this country should be able to trust that governments will measure the rightness and the consequences and consequences of this kind of decree can have for the common people. Therefore, I think that in these matters there is the danger that the statements that have been made here as such have no effect, it is just consumer protection and good, then it does not come to pass. That is the concern, and of course, based on the failure of the previous statements, as mentioned. With a pack of three energy, you will be obliged to provide private power plants, e.g. windmills, linking to the transport system owned by the nation This results in causing costs and calls for increased investments in transport capacity. In accordance with Directive 72/2009, this means that the plant must not be affected by this cost, i.e. it is required to distribute it to all users of the network. This alone will lead to an increase in the transport costs for the homes and businesses in the country. The big business may not go away because it has long - term contracts, as we know it. The resulting increase in domestic electricity costs, whether the cable comes or not, will be realized. I think it's very important to keep this in mind. I don't feel that I have had enough discussion in this discussion. However, if the cable must be further invested in the whole network's ability and then all at the expense of national electricity users. It is important to keep this in mind, and we see that domestic electricity costs are going to rise when these wind - milling gardens and this growing energy industry, even though the cable has not arrived. By bringing in a pack of three energy, we are losing control of Landsnet prices. It alone is a major road against the interests of the public of the country whose country is known and, in fact, is the whole transport and distribution network of electricity in the country. This system has been built up, as we know, by vast investments and environmental sacrifices, by land framed under lines, and by our knowledge of the issues involved. This has been a real challenge and has also made it a failure to make enough peace of mind about these matters. However, this transport system is one of the most valuable shares we have with other resources. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'd like to be put back on the rosary so I can finish this follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u52	President. Hv. A senator introduced a very important case that I agree with him that this third energy package has been very under discussion. But hopefully there will be a remedy for this, i.e. effect of the energy package without a cable. Regardless of where a cable is laid, this energy package has a very significant effect. But I didn't mean to ask. This time, I have to let it wait a better time. What I wanted to ask him. A senator now is the windmill he mentioned. Interestingly, suddenly there is tremendous interest in building windmill gardens in Iceland. They search all over the country for places where such gardens can be built. The vast majority of wind mills have not been considered competitive with the energy resources we have here, hydropower workers, and aquifers, and therefore there is no reason to attack such projects. What, then, does it tell us about this tremendous increase in interest in building windmills? Could it not be that it is just proof that human beings expect energy prices to go up and therefore even windmills will be profitable in Iceland? So, there's another story, and I'd like to get the opinion of it. A senator also, that these windmills are not necessarily environmentally friendly when all is calculated, large and largely from steel produced in China by coal fountains. And throughout all of this, there is a great building blocks, roads, and foundations. However, this may be another example of Europe's intense Europe rather than the overall impact on what is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's a very important subject he's getting in there, why such a great deal of interest is to build windmills and activate those under 10 MWs because it's easier to get them started out of the environment. This, of course, raises questions, legitimate questions. That's why I think it's a simple answer. Such projects are not subject to man's success unless he realizes that they are making it. When investors, such as rural societies in Norway, are behind investment funds that are interested in building windmill gardens, you wonder that such an investment fund is not to be taken into some ventured investment. So rural society clearly sees profit in investing here in windmill gardens. But there is another matter. There is no use for these windmill gardens, these investors, to produce electricity on the system here in Iceland because there is an excess in the system up to 10% of the production of Land activation. That is why it is clear, and it does not have to be taken to the grave that is the export of the energy to which these people are looking. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, if you realize that this energy package is not to be introduced here, you may be able to remove the support from these investors, which, in turn, shows that there is a tremendous pressure on bringing in this energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u54	President. The pressure to generate the energy package has not passed me. But it is interesting to look to where that pressure comes from. True, he comes from a few sources. But what I find especially interesting in this context is that those who have been most likely to speak for cables include. The director of national activation, which is directly involved in this as a special interest and priorities, seems to be at Landactivation. He is one of the leading spokesmen of accepting this third energy package. If that theory were right to accept this package of energy, it would create some kind of fear - inspiring balance in linking the country with a sea cable after the energy package was approved, it would be dangerous for humans to believe that it would create resistance to a link by a sea cable, that the advocates of such connections would be opposed to the third energy package. It would be an obstacle to achieving this connection. How, then, can sea cables continue through the third energy package? Could it not be that these so - called models are of no importance and that the induction of the third energy package is an important factor in the system's continuing on course as they are being helped by the European Union to eliminate obstacles to sea cables?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Very interesting. You see, I think there's going to be a lot of pressure on a cable and it's not only going to be the European Union, it's going to be from Iceland. Investors would be firms, such as Legislation, like a whale. A senator rightly mentioned. This energy package, therefore, is to be introduced, which is designed for translucency. It's just the way it is, it's just one of these steps. That is why it is very important to these parties that everything goes smoothly. In the event that induction did not occur, all the plans for this party have been battled in a natural way. So it's set in my mind that there's a lot of pressure that there's no barriers to the export of energy from this source. It's a little strange that these investors, who have already set off and are preparing to build windmill gardens, etc. It does not seem to worry that this will be stopped, that we reject this energy package. It's as if they know exactly how this will happen. So, as mentioned, is there a general agency of some sort, just as investors would like to do in this matter? You wonder if it's just reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I would like to have a word with him about the content of the speech that involved energy and an increase in electricity prices and in historical detail looking ahead. We know that electricity prices were increased by induction especially by one of the energy packages. It's an accident that I got e-mails last night from people who are completely unplugged to me, which described a 100% increase in electrical prices, and the mail following the prescription papers showing that development in the household of the people, who fully support that. A senator has been saying here. But about me and the Icelanders, I'd like to ask you why. A senator is not likely to increase energy prices in Iceland on grounds of electricity prices in the European Union because this is the constant energy level, at stable prices and in the property of the nation, there are other market laws in the European Union. Counts 'em out. A senator that the trend here is describing the future of electrical prices can not only develop for reasons other than the cost of building the electrical distribution system, but from markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I think it's quite arranged for the market situation to make a significant impression on us, the electrical system, the public in the country and the companies when it comes to our becoming a joint market. This requires that barriers be removed, that current circuits are forced to flow through the area, that electricity flows through the whole area, and then the law of supply, and the demand for the product to look to the highest price available. It will be natural on European continents when a cable becomes available because we have clean energy. It becomes more valuable every day, which will lead to an increase in electricity prices here. It is not just a market situation that causes the electrical prices to rise. This will increase due to the increased costs of Landsnet, as explained earlier, in increasing construction projects, due to increased activation initiatives, and subsequent ups resulting in loss of ability as soon as this package is approved here, it will be realized that it will be approved. And then there's the monitoring fees to set up and raise considerably, about 45% on these companies. This will end up in the public at the end. So we're seeing an increase in electrical prices. It is said that if sea cables become reality, statistics such as a 50% rise in homes and businesses in the country, which is an enormous increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u58	Madam President. The reason I raised that question is that I wanted to talk about it and would be pleased to hear more perhaps in the second talk. A senator because I know that he has done a lot of research, whether there is a risk that the European Union's price of electronic prices will not be controlled, which is up to us Icelanders because there is a low price on electrical energy here, whether all of this is going to affect us. But then again, electricity goes into the market and supplies can buy energy and sell it on. The chances are that here and anywhere else in the European Union, this energy, defined as a product, would enter the financial sector's market, into a financial market. There's a law other than just how much is produced and how much demand is involved. There are hedge funds playing on the system that can buy a lot of money to sell it at the right price, but they can also sell, they can shorten. There are situations that may begin to develop that are defined as not one of these, but of other factors that would make the price very unstable. However, the price is unlikely to go down for what would be equal in Europe. It may be appropriate to also introduce the power and price of the energy in Europe as a result of the whims of the weather and the whims of national leaders who might wish to go e.g. in wars and increases in oil prices, and if oil prices rise or gas prices, it increases electricity prices and increases now the demand for electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's analysis of markets in Europe and the impact factors that can play into it, such as during the course of the year. A senator rightly mentioned. Therefore, and that is why it is so important for the European Union to look for ways to achieve more stability when it comes to energy. Energy instability in Europe is just around the corner. A senator, the same time as we Icelanders, we have stability in these matters. In this regard, the European Union's vision of the future is to achieve a clean energy that is not dependent on oil prices, such as winter. A senator mentioned fossil fuels. All of this has an impact on energy production in the European Union, making it a huge effort for the European Union to achieve stability when it comes to energy production and energy prices and to deal with Iceland's key issues. That's for sure. It's been mentioned here that the EEA deal will be in any confusion if it's not going to be approved here, but I think there's a total panic. The European Union needs us. They need to think that this contract is in force, and it does not mean rocking them by boat because their interests are that the contract will continue with the people and the European Union will be in good contact with us in this regard. In the end, I think people will see that it is the European Union's advantage to keep in touch with us and all the fear of being upset here if we do not agree to this package of energy, in my opinion, to support us, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u60	Madam President. Now, I hope to complete my tour of the Norwegian Preservation of the Third Energy Package, despite the fact that the President has normally taken me only five minutes. I know Mrs. President has no choice but it's not a long time for speeches. These words can hardly be considered full speeches. They're half-baked people assigned to us here. But I'm going to do my best to finish this tour of the Norwegian advance. I had reached the seventh of eight. It says: ▪ The net should be owned and run all the sea cables in the future. It's pretty clear. This should be confirmed in energy law. Stetnett, a type of Norwegian national network, is interesting to see how firmly they want to assume that this government has all the cables in the future. It brings to mind the speculations of human concerns about the possible link between Iceland and the European electricity system. It has shown the possibility that interested investors might want to take the initiative to finance such a cable, own it, and drive it, and benefit from letting electricity around it. They are not unfounded. We have seen that in the European Union, there is great interest in investing among investors, especially in view of the fact that the European Union contributes to, disintegrating obstacles, business and political, so that interested investors can invest in such connections. Obviously, this is what the Norwegians worry about. Why, though, do they feel that they have to make a special point that the Kingdom is driving all the cables in the future? Yeah, right. Because it's not only Iceland, but Norway, who might be at risk that the aims of the third energy package I mentioned earlier, would be a new investment to force them, not Statnett to connect Norway to the common European energy system. Madam President. In other words, this is another warning from Norway, yet another indication, so to speak, that the concern of us Icelanders is practical and even to the point that a country already linked to it may arise in the need for investors to demand a sea cable. But then, to the eighth warning that's more or less like this - I apologize to the President that this is a loose translation, for which the government has not made a formal translation of these Norwegian omens as amazing as it may seem: In addition to maintaining and developing the Norwegian electricity network, income costs will continue to be used to reduce tax returns. This is quite remarkable in view of the recent discussions here in Iceland, that the Norwegians feel that it is right to make a special statement that they will continue to earn money to reduce currency - to reduce reimburses - which tells us that they are concerned that the switch between ACER and the European Union as a whole of Norwegian electronic energy will be required to increase prices or at least to prevent the benefits from reducing legal requirements to Norwegian buyers. Besides maintaining and developing the Norwegian electric net, they add. In other words, they want to make it clear that they think it is reasonable to believe that the benefits of selling energy can be used to maintain and develop the Norwegian electricity network. [[The president calls.]] This is not without reason. We've already seen, a respectable president -- I can't quite finish the tour over the Norwegian warning, but I'm sure for the next speech, so I'll ask the President to sign me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u61	Yeah, yeah. A senator got himself lucky, 'cause one shot. A senator has requested to give him an answer, so he will have a few extra minutes in this traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for this talk, in a series of discussions about Norwegian ahead of time. Norwegians are not small countries when it comes to energy in the sense that the nation does not count very many - they are 4 to 5 million, if I remember correctly, I may be mistaken for something there, but at least they are not a very large nation worldwide - they are very rich with energy resources, both oil and electricity. But the Norwegians seem to dare what is considered impossible here, namely, to make a warning. They do not seem fully satisfied with this induction or directive coming from the European Community through the EEA Community. I'd like to curious about it by then. A senator whether he knows or knows whether he or she is acting as a journalist is being interpreted as upset by the EEA community or even could cause the Norwegians to be thrown out of the European Economic Area. The reason I'm asking is because Dr. Carl Baudenbach's opinion is reflected in the opinion of Dr. Carl Baudenbachers. It would be nice to have a firm stand. A senator to do so, or would he want to inform me whether he knows so that it was threatened that this would affect the North of the EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u63	Madam President. I don't think anybody'd think to threaten the Norse because if they become their interests in line with what the EEA Treaty expects, they might be expelled from the EEA community. But because. A senator mentions Carl Baudenbacher--if Baudenbacher is watching, I send him my best greeting--I want to remind him that the Norwegians had looked upon Iceland as some kind of attachment in the EEA community and it's important for Icelanders to submit to authority, that was not exactly said, or follow what the Norse expected of us. This is a very dangerous message because if we took note of these messages and planned to follow them, we would be setting up a very dangerous example and disappearing from what is one of the basics of the EEA community, that all the countries are equal, that they are in this partnership, or that they are coming to this agreement on equal odds. When these two things come together, the one thing I assume is that we can both agree on, me and the other. A senator, that no one could think of driving Norway out of the EEA agreement and then the fact that the states are all on equal terms, why would anyone think of driving Iceland out of the EEA community and setting up the whole deal, not just for Iceland, but for Liechtenstein, for Norway and also for the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u64	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The reason for my review here is that in a review of the General legal assessment of this man, Carl Baudenbacher, for and in the request of the foreign minister of Iceland, it is stated that although he may - and this is of little consequence because the document has not been translated into Icelandic for us senators, it is in English on the website - there is a need to reject the introduction of the new EU law, this is not an excuse for taking into the emergency inhibitor, or Šemergency debris as it is called on the original language, and return to Iceland's third energy package could put it at risk in the EEA. It suggests that Iceland could be eliminated from the EEA cooperation of the nations. I can't understand how different it is, so if the Norwegians make eight warnings about this energy input, they're not gonna be doing what it's happening to a cow, as you say. Why, then, should such things apply to us? Or perhaps no such thing has been implied elsewhere, i.e. This political resolution and this statement by the European Union that we stand on our feet and stick to our own independent decisions? Has it just been suggested to this one place in this one opinion? Could it be that it is not in the best interests of one person?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u65	Madam President. Of course, no one is up to it. Of course, no one would think to threaten the Norwegians because if they were right in accordance with the EEA Convention, they might be expelled from the EEA. Clearly, this is merely another example of testing, such as during a rough period of testing. paritaprevir Sæmundsson well described earlier this evening, in a specific way, to discourage the nation. It's not about anything else. Because it does not agree with any evidence or anything in the EEA Convention that countries can be put out of cooperation for the sole purpose of using the tools the contract offers. But there is one other thing that's very interesting to this comparison. A senator assumes that someone has handled the government's efforts to scare the Icelanders through this aggression and that Norway would hardly be the same, but there is a much greater criticism of the EEA deal in Norway than there is in Iceland. As a result, it is clear that if Icelanders were to put pressure on this EEA community work as unlikely today, it would be water on the mill of the large population in Norway with doubts about the contract. So I don't think people will want to rock the boat in Norway using Iceland as Albanian, so to speak, so to speak, to use the old Cold War metaphor, to use the Icelanders. Then it would be understood in Norway, as if that were a legitimate criticism of the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u66	Madam President. I'm going to continue with the approach, and then what? As I try to shed light on each of the next steps, the introduction issues and the development of the scenarios develop as the wind progresses. What I would like to include in this speech is what is inevitably awaiting the third energy package, i.e. the so-called fourth energy package next to the assembly. It has been reviewed in earlier debates tonight that evidence might be presented that it is desirable to store the matter until the fall to see a more full picture of the fourth energy package that has been essentially fully developed already, even though we here in the hall today have not seen it. I don't think I'm paddling. The head of the State Department, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, a word in my mouth when I say that it said in an interview, probably more than a week ago, that it would be necessary to introduce the third energy package because with the third energy package, one of the energy package fell out of force and thus was to emphasize that it was so compatible in this, as I understood it, so that men would be in the lower order of installing the package that remains in the context of putting in place the individual who has survived. Now this fourth pack of energy has become more and less adult. I'll give you a Norwegian report that has been put together on the issues of the fourth energy package. It is actually a study and an assessment of the available data already associated with the fourth energy pack. The report, by permission of the president, says: To shape a law frame for Europe's joint energy network is now complete with a energy package of one, two, three and four. So made a career in December 2018 - so the frame has arrived. The Norwegian report, with permission of the President: The most important effect of the approved energy package must be that Norway must adopt market prices in the European Union's common energy market. The induction of three and four energy bags means huge investments in sea cables and other lines [...] regardless of whether excess energy is available in Norway to feed them strings or not. [...] Energy prices will, according to the report, increase in Norway and a company in that country will lose the competitive premium they have today due to up to triple energy prices. I have to admit, three times the energy price is more than I think it's a long way to get to the point, so I'm going to give myself an opportunity to be talking about some special perimeter events. However, this does not change the results of the report as a significant increase in energy prices. Then, with permission from the president, it continues: By direct contact with the common energy network and by clean energy sales from Norway, energy consumption, including due to the emptying of the surfaces in Norway, it will be introduced by import of energy produced, among other things, by contaminated fossil fuels. This is now the beautiful vision described by the Norwegian report regarding the next step presented in a pack of four energy. The report describes a great deal of concern about the activities of industrial companies in Norway, which will be affected by high energy prices and reports that a large number of jobs are at risk. These are the same views we've considered here regarding the development in the Iceland market, and electricity prices will be rising considerably. In this context, I would like to remind myself of what I am still so surprised, that no comments were received about the Satisfaction, an umbrella union of Iceland's international manufacturers, which is probably the largest electrical dealer in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u67	Madam President. Yes, thank you. A senator's speech. That was interesting when he visited potentially hazardous jobs in Norway. You can see that in this report industrialized, such as. Paper industry and metal industry, all under optimal energy prices. And now we're talking about Norway. It is said that as many as 12,000 jobs in Norway may be available and that the side effect may be up to 30,000 additional jobs, this common energy system is, in fact, a significant threat to industry in Norway. Then, Madam President, you're wondering if the same situation could arise here. I'd like to hear from what I heard. A senator sees how he sees it in these matters. Now we see the effects of Norway. We saw what happened here at home when a pack of energy was created, then all special contracts were taken away that were purchased by a company, e.g. Shorter electricity at night, like bakers and stuff like that. They were simply forbidden by special agreements. Brussels said no special contracts with less power would be available. We swallowed these things without murmuring, and we did not object. The government had no idea that this could happen. Then the industrial minister had no idea that electricity prices could rise here in the country during the induction of a energy package one and two. We can see from letters that the Ministry involved in the preparation of the case had no idea, saying that perhaps these agreements could be in danger. They had no more knowledge of it than this. So now you ask, what? Senator: How can you envision that this will be here? [[The president calls.]] For example. ... fortheforms? [[The president calls.]] This can have consequences for the Austjörður aluminium, e.g. When the electrical contract expires, that there will be simply an expensive agreement that the company will not be able to see the benefit of staying here anymore? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u68	Madam President. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. But I don't think there's any paper to look at an industry that loses some competitive premise that he has without being able to meet by any other means of business or by something that would offset the loss of a competitive premise, of course, is much more likely to blow away and quit or be moved beyond the quality of a well - established industry. With regard to the large industry at home, it is only a matter of business that the owners of these enterprises close aluminium plants or other layer of metal processing around the world each year, so there is nothing wrong to think that if energy prices increase very much, so that the management unit is not thus efficient, such activity will either move closer to the source of the resources or closer to the markets produced by the production. There is no need for experts to realize that in Iceland we are not near markets or sources of raw materials in the context of the aluminium, but we have this competitive prelude to a favorable electrical price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u69	Madam President. Yeah, I cut particularly after the last words. A senator, an ideal electrical price. Indeed, when it comes to industrial and varied activities that are energy - consuming, our priority is to a favorable electrical price. The results of the future sea cables, I think it's pretty clear, it's just a matter of number of years, have reached Europe and there's a much higher price for this clean energy than there is in this country. This is primarily what these organisations plan to invest in windmills and various types of electricity production, activation below 10 MW etc., i.e. to maximise her profits and profits. This is done by selling energy out of the country. So there's a lot at stake. [[The president calls.]] I feel that I have been completely underestimated in this case, i.e. The consequences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u70	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. There's another thing that often forgets about the discussion, but I'm gonna try to come in here. It's the industry that builds up around this country's most powerful business, whether it's the big business or the strong company in the fishing road. We know of the developments that have developed, the technological development in the fishing field, and how many powerful companies have developed on the basis of it. The same thing happens around the big business. There are an amazing number of very good companies that are built up to support the services of this activity, and many are taking the lead on a global scale, even though little is in the context of the objects. But this powerful business, like the bigger ones, needs to be protected and supportive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u71	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of this speech. This series of his talks, ◯ And then what? " have been most illuminating and probably most illuminating for those who are following this discussion here outside the hall because of the weather. A senator has made clear and simple use of human language. But I do some action about what he said in his last answer, i.e. that we would have to protect our business as a service to a great deal. Then I think there's more than one and two companies here, who have both designed and produced composures for an elf, or a robot, and sold to an elf in almost every continent. I agree with what. A senator said that if such an operation were to fail, it would be visible. We have not spoken much of sea cables but, of course, the shadow of him hangs over this discussion because people have been gawking so much about the effect that this could have on them. But I just want to pray. A senator reviewing it because now it is almost certain that the activation of such activations as Krumbjónization needs to be available before a cable could reach the pot. And the question is, and where? A senator sees such activation in a light and completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u72	Madam President. I don't trust myself to specify a place here and now where we could be like one of the Kamledran's operations, not the spirit of energy building in this country. There has been a targeted work on it - and now it's right to say that I'm following further energy production in the country, but I have any doubt that the induction of the third energy package will benefit us. But I think it's to add the energy efficiency required to feed a string in addition to the extrapowers that are in the system now and in vain in part -- I don't have those numbers in my mind or memory, but I guess there's something to be entered into a new frame plan for the options there to get back to that number. I especially noticed that Land Protection and similar organizations should not have seen a reason to send a third energy package to the World Congress or Committee area. So I have been surprised at the position of nature - protection organizations in the processing of this case. But picking out a whole Kärilla's Healing -- I don't trust to tell you where it could be placed at once, but there would be quite a struggle I think it would be impossible to come through, given the atmosphere at the moment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u73	V.E.G. President. Now I have to disagree. A senator because we have a government group, once called the left movement - a green supply and a great deal of struggle for protection. Today, the same group has taken the lead in the marketing of the electricity of the country. I imagine that if they say "B." I can't believe that good people -- then I'm talking about the party not the general partner - which is so eager to market electricity here, I don't realize that marketing and possible sea cables will follow undeniably the need for a new country under activation. That's why I think it's a soil in itself that if this category is in the lead of those who want to launch the electricity system, it's more active here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u74	Madam President. It is an interesting theory, and at times it is not quite so obvious. But, of course, it's true that there's a whole body of Congress that's been completely against the induction of the first and then the second energy package that's now, all on green, followed by the induction of the third energy package. What happens in the meantime at the same time, and we see that an organization such as Land Protection - and there are, of course, strong and close ties between these two groups - does not even send out a review? Maybe it's about to turn around that you didn't see fit. There would be a story to the next town if a council of greener greens were to continue the largest form of electricity in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u75	Madam President. I've just entered the Norwegian Parliament's advance with the third energy package. When you listen to what you read. A member of the Parliament or a brief review of this black report from Norway on the effects of this energy package would have no surprise that people feel the need for broad warnings. The description in this report of what is unmistakably expected in Norway, through the induction of the energy package, is about to a large extent the same as I planned to discuss a relatively detailed subject later in the Iceland discussion. Because this description is extremely similar to what you fear will be the case in this country, i.e. jobs, thousands of jobs, especially in the country, can be lost. Although I will not take too much advantage of my happiness by starting the discussion that I have prepared for the effectiveness of the energy package, I want to use this opportunity because of that. A senator specifically discussed the impact on the region in Norway, to seek his opinion on whether it is not to be expected, if he disagrees with me, I may be easily corrected by this, that the effects may be relatively higher in Iceland. Bad enough is the description of this vision for Norway. But in view of the fact that Iceland's country is so full of energy in its industrial development that energy for competitive prices is simply the fact that the effects may be relatively greater here than in Norway?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u76	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson answered. Yeah, well, I think there's a lot of chance that the effect could be more than proportional in Iceland than in Norway, and there's a few things that we're gonna have to do there. First, I'd like to mention that what has been called a competitive prelude to a suitable energy price has been more in Iceland than in Norway. In Norway, people have a higher energy prices than here, I think it is safe to say whole, so much more is to be hit. If we look at a job structure in Iceland, it's going to be a major loss in industry and especially in the areas where the industry is, of course, the energy structure is a key factor. We'll see an area like one of them. A senator, Eyjafjörður, Akureyri, who has hardly trusted to accept a new company for a long time unless the company is in such a position that it requires a small amount of electricity. So I come back to the relative impact, I think it's quite clear that they'll be more at home, simply because the energy difference has been so in historical terms that it will be cut even more in Iceland than it will be in Norway, and yet it's described in enough dramatic manner in this fine report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u77	Madam President. Other factors might be used to highlight the risks set out with this third national energy package compared to Norway's situation, which is as disturbing as that. A senator described. For example, consider the fact that Norway is in a very progressive way trying to contribute to the entire country by means of tax appeal, with a direct support for the development of employment in all parts of the country. Sadly, such a lack has been severe in Iceland, and as a result, the settlements are more sensitive to rhythms, such as those that could lead to the third energy package. But I appreciate it. A senator for specifically mentioning the Eyjafjörður. I am deeply concerned about the effects of this third energy package on Eyjafjördur, the Parliamentian County, the entire East, and the whole country in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u78	Madam President. I'm gonna let myself say something. A senator's concern is that this is a special concern for the country. Both areas are vulnerable to access to energy either because of the lack of energy in the distribution system or because of the lack of new energy supply. In the country, companies are very often below average share ratios in their sectors, simply because of problems resulting from distances from markets and other such, animal resources, and so on through the streets. What works against Iceland, compared with a company in other places, is comparable to a company in the local region of the country compared to a company working in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u79	Madam President. I've been giving talks on the 72/2009 Directive, as it were, one of the vertebrates in a pack of three. I've been going over some of the major issues that may not have been completely satisfied with the population. Here, scholars and candidates have made reviews about the entire package and, in fact, the directive itself. At the early stage of this discussion, people took a point from these comments and threw them forward, but I felt that there was no depth or understanding of the details of this directive. But I've come here to a particular article entitled 'Environment Council', which included my first talk to the Watch Tower Society, i.e. A power agency. By permission of the President, it says here: To implement the monitoring activities as specified in this Directive, all appropriate measures should be taken by the responsible authorities to achieve the following objectives within the framework of their duties and the power field as recommended in 37. .. in close consultation with other relevant national authorities, including When appropriate, competitive authorities, and in advance, for their domains of authority - i.e. with a warning about the domain of competitive authorities, because of the surveillance program, i.e. The government, Power Institute, will be independent of the European Commission. The a-team says, with Mrs. President's permission: In close cooperation with the Agency, monitoring authorities from other Member States and the Commission, competitive, safe and environmentally sustainable internal market for electricity in the Community, and effective markets for all customers and supply in the Community, ensuring appropriate conditions for the efficient and reliable operating of electronic networks, taking into account the long-term objectives. And what would now be the long - term goal of the European Community? What is the long-term target of the induction of a pack of three energy followed by four and five and the one that follows? Yes, a uniform market in which the electricity flows freely between countries and countries, and connecting the market with cohesion. Forwarding continues: To develop a regional market in the confederacy, which is competitive and operates properly in the context of the Treaty. to achieve the desired targets for the a-team (i.e. environmentally sustainable internal market for electrical energy in the Community and effective market access for all customers and supply in the Community. This is a document that needs to be read back and forth, Madam President. There are references in certain articles and articles in other articles, even in other material. The C team is very interesting: To eliminate business restrictions with electricity between Member States, including to develop an appropriate cross-border transport capacity to meet the demand and improve integration of national markets which may facilitate the electricity flow within the Community; What would this mean in English? To eliminate the restrictions in business through electricity between Member States, including developing an appropriate cross-border transport capacity - it is one of the objectives of this introduction to develop a sea cable or some other methods that may not be invented now to achieve the aim of transporting energy, clean energy, from Iceland to other Member States. I see that time is running away from me, and I've only come to a very shallow place in what I was going to discuss here. I'd like to ask the President to add me to the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this fine passage. I've just looked at this same text as it is, which is correct, as it were. One senator says, you have to take a look at this and look back and forth and see what is being referred to. This may seem a bit complicated, but that is how they catch you, as it says. One point to other than all of this, creating a single network with one major objective, i.e. to capture and deliver the energy market to a joint European institution. Hv. A senator named Power Institute in Iceland. It is of great interest to consider this text and other texts that are associated with it in terms of the Power Institute and its future role. In the context of the third energy package and the Parliament's odor proposal, we now have the highest power. Industrial Minister has provided a bill for changes in the nature and role of the Energy Agency. Part of what's stated in that bill is that Power Institute should, so to speak, be free from the Minister, free from the democratic elected representatives in Iceland, become independent. Unless the real purpose is not that Power Institute should become independent. The real purpose is that it can enter the role that Iceland's Energy Institute will then be used according to this exercise of the third energy package, as with other European energy institutions, i.e. to serve as a branch office for ACER here on the land and to enforce the wishes of this institution. It is absurd, then, that governments now claim that there will be no change. [[The president calls.]] They are presenting real changes that will have significant effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u81	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. That's the very thing, on the English tongue it's called "The Devil Is in the Despots," or the devil is hiding in the details. But I'd still like to watch, as I've come into this room, that it's really no hide-and-seek, but this requires us to read the data and read them carefully. As we sit here in this room, we have not very rarely been prostituted as to the fact that we should read the data and get frontal calls from this hall to see if the members of the Central Party are locked over their heads. I think we're rejecting that fact. I want to point to the very nature of what has been introduced here, that Power Institute, and the laws now in the context and on committees, are that they are not about making Power Institute something for Iceland or altering the role or nature of the Energy Institute for Iceland, but that they are about to change the role of the Power Agency for the European Union. Me and the Icelanders are allowed to pay and pay and finance and to ensure that this tape, if it is allowed, will become completely independent from the executive authority, be authorized to get a guilt load usually at the court's hand in the traditional triune of power, but serve the European Union. Step one is a serious matter. And to say here that it's a complete zero, that's just a steep one, Madam President. I think there's a lot to it about being attentive and talking about it better. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. In part, the president's review of this matter will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u82	Madam President. I agree with that answer. Senator. It is true, however, that the European Union can publish all of the information. It shows the articles that are being introduced. It reveals the purpose of these provisions. And in this respect the European Union's march in this matter differs from that of the European government - rather than trying to hide what you want and what your goals are - is all very accessible to the European Union's websites. We have to give it to the European Union, and it is true that it will publish all of this. But for that very reason, it is so important for us senators to look through the basic information to help us understand what is really happening with this energy package. But then it can. A senator, since I accept his answer on this matter, stated that it is a concern that the Icelandic government does not seek to bring it out but even hide it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. That's what's been breaking my mind whether it's purpose to be trying to mislead people in this discussion that it's the way the knots are arranged with intent to step into the first pool or to get off the road in the first corner. I won't say. Of course it can be. But regarding this, it is true that the European Union published its articles and goals and what is written in it is clear, and we can be surprised at what comes from it. However, we may also be responsible for considering the long - term goals and policies of our relationship. And what comes in is completely consistent with that. [[The president calls.]] We must resolve not to lose sight of the long - term goals and policies of the European Union. [[The president calls.]] In this light, all such inductions should be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u84	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A member of this talk as well as others with whom he has given the same or similar material. I'm beginning to think, Madam President, that this may be one of the most interesting presentations ever made to the energy package so far, i.e. To help people appreciate what is behind the image that the government groups have invented. In itself, I think this is why. A senator's job should have been done by the government because it should have explained to people what it's all about but hasn't. That is why it is also a pleasure to have a good time. A senator should have given much attention to the 72/2009 Regulation in order to review, which has not been discussed so much, but is the basis for all of it. That is why it is so necessary to review it in a manner that could easily be used. A senator has done, and this continues to show how our discussion here for some time has deepened and the understanding in itself has increased. This should have happened with the participation of those who want to hit the energy package through Congress at high speed. I'd like to ask you what. First of all, a senator of the government's obligation to inform the subjects of a plan that they have to change their lives for the future. Secondly, whether it is. A senator may feel that there is reason for the government to take it aside so that a careful introduction can be made that I think we would agree that we need to be conducted? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Regarding the authority's obligation to inform me, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator that, of course, in a democratic society, the government informs the public about its purpose and its effect. Then I'm not talking about what's also been discussed here, some possible effect, of course it has to be discussed, but about what is called de facto or the facts of what will happen, Madam President, and is written into the introduction, so everyone realizes that there will be changes. And they will be great. There will be significant changes in administrative affairs as well as in the environment of people as they know them today; on the basic needs of people, the energy, the resources of the country. But the presentation people receive and are offered is a total zero, no matter. It's a formal vow, like saying good morning when you meet a man for the first time in the morning, you don't have to do it, but you're polite. I think it's polite to introduce it to the co-workers. It's just that it's not. It's a huge case that affects people, subjects. I believe that the government groups know better because everyone had declared it to the earlier stage that they would not do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u87	President. Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. A senator because both are that both the Independence Party and the Agency have run away from national meetings and from central government release on this issue and the left green are, as we have seen before, becoming the foremost spokesman for the markets of electricity in Iceland. Of course, one does not understand this transformation. There must be something behind that we don't know about, and then we'll come to light in the late stages, but then I would have thought there would be a need for men to introduce their plans. So I ask why. A senator whether it is the monopoly that this case will be a real military campaign, the government will resolve it. Because it seems to me that the government has for this solely used its presentation, i.e. to teach their councils how to get involved in the matter. [[The president calls.]] It seems that all the power went on, not to introduce the matter to the common people. Is that not correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u88	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. Of course, the government would have been pleased to do so and to put matters in motion that would treat the general public of the country whose authority is real but that would allow these people to govern for a time. That may change. Educating people and players as to what this really means must be the duty of every person who takes control of such a society. And to say that there is some kind of approach that can be noticed by these esteemed scholars, Árni the Friðriksson of Hirst and the Friurksson of Friðirst, who have warned of it, seriously, but nevertheless follow up on this route, I think that's a mistake. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u89	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to sit back for a moment with an exception that has been granted at the EEA Convention, then our way, according to the 102th paragraph. in the contract to take the case there, the legal way, to get a conclusion acceptable to us. That's what it says in 102. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In particular, the European Commission shall do their utmost to resolve a solution to which a person can accept... Then we have that this solution could be that we would be free of the energy package as a whole. They say it was never used, that we've never referred it there during the 25-year period of the contract. But I remind myself that it was ten years, if not nearly a whole lifetime, since we had not used 26. in the constitution to refer matters to the people, to the court of speech, which was then done, and no one made a comment. To argue that this is not possible or possible because the contract is 25 years old and it was never used as a natural argument that is not to be heard. Mrs. President, this is such logic in my opinion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this, i.e. An example is for those to whom it is given. I'll mention the natural gas and the canal, for example. Is this a risk? [[The president calls.]] What has a what? A senator who makes such arrangements, and how does he feel about it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. The details of the terms in the EEA Convention are exactly discussed in a few articles, including 102st. And there's a continuation at 103 st. and everywhere it is very clear that it includes making peace, doing their utmost, that all parties involved in this cooperation should exercise their means of making peace, but not threatening that someone will be expelled from the partnership or that there will be serious consequences in some way for them, on the contrary to what has been said here. But for that dramatic inquiry about 26 pars. The republic's constitutions when used for the first time - are these risks? I'm gonna say no, and no is a hell of a word. I'd like to think about it before you know it. The U.S. Congress, Mrs. President and the people, no returned to us a constitution and a sovereignty. No, we returned the economic legal history. No won us a victory in Icesave. I'm more afraid of the yes, more subjugative and boring than to stand up and say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's reply is very good, and well spoken, indeed. What has returned to us is that we may not be standing here today if we had not stood on our rights, showing boldness and initiative in fighting for our important affairs, national independence, and the sovereignty. Of course, this is a matter that points to the important issues, i.e. Be not afraid to take the matter along the way that can be handled, legally, and properly. But then you wonder. Is there any reason why the government does not want to go that way? Is it perhaps because it is the actual will of the government to go all the way and introduce this package? [[The president calls.]] They make some home bridge notices to atone for their supporters, grass roots, etc.? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this really why humans do not want to go that legal way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u93	Once again, the president will have to ask him why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think these models are completely and exclusively to home bridges and are convinced the more I spend more time studying their grounds. It is so strange that most determined ones are not seen in the Senate Hall for this discussion. I would love to get that person in a talk, in a chair, so that we could ask them and get answers to our questions. But in the historical context, it is nice to recall that under violence, as I think it is, the Germans of Versailles returned the agreements that pledged them to pay arms damages from the end of the war until 1984 after their hands were taken from both the Rhine and Ruhr provinces, which were the industrial districts of Germany and carried the nation by a fleet. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What happened? [[The president calls.]] World War II.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u95	Madam President. Before I begin to talk about what I was going to talk about, I have to remind you that one of the worst yes in Icelandic history was given in 1262, with disastrous consequences for a long time. I have been quite involved, in my recent speeches, to mention what former politicians in several categories have been presenting on the issue we are dealing with right now. I mention what Ögmundur Jónasson has said about this matter, and in a subsequent talk, I want to review what Hjörleifur Guttormsson has recently left behind; it's good to have something after the discussion is over. But this time, I was going to focus on one of the best sons of the Independence Party, Tómas Ingi Olrich, former General, Minister and ambassador. He wrote on March 28th. because he reviews that he tried to warn his party members about how this matter is built up together. He says, with the permission of the president, in this article: I have thought that in the EU energy law, there are provisions that would take power from Iceland to the multinational monitoring agency, ESA, that would be supported by us but would take their authority to Europe's rights. This is in itself what has happened during recent talks since the day. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. Tómas Ingi continues, with the permission of the President: ▪ Many people have tried hard to convince me that I am wrong, although they are not always done on personal terms. How loud that chorus is, though not all sing the same song! He then spoke of who has this choir, and that includes. Iceland ambassador, Iceland's foreign minister, tourism, industrial, innovation and justice minister, former Minister of Björn Bjarnason, etc. And Tómas Ingi here says, with permission from the President: ▪ The choir's legislature is very heavy. So I have expected an opportunity to read - black in white - white - testimony in EU energy directives that confirm that there is no room for power. That has been the case until now. He also speaks of the joint declaration made by Þór Þórðarson and the European Commission of energy on the value of the third energy package to Iceland. He quotes the declaration, which says: ▪ If there is a future framework for crossborder design, the EFTA (EU) centre has a decision-making authority on cross-border issues rather than ACER. As noted, the ACER ESA reads into the hands they observe. Tómas Ingi says that this confirmed what he claimed, that a decision-making authority will be hosted in the EFTA Monitoring Institute. He does not want to downplay this institution, but he rightly points out that it does not belong to the Icelandic government. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: On the other hand, according to the Court's declaration and the European Commission of Energy, the following paragraph states: the European Union's third energy package has no influence on the national countries of Iceland over Iceland's energy sources and its decision-making and management. The EU's internal energy market is at the mercy of the Icelandic government. He rightly says, this noble independent, respected politician, by permission of a president: ▪ Now it is that if these two statements are compared, they conflict materially. The first states that issues that protected marine cables and cross-border access of energy workers fall under the EFTA (EU) monitoring facility. It's an independent Minister's office in Iceland. The second claim says that the European Union's electronic cable and internal energy markets are at the bottom of the Icelandic government. Ergo: This statement conflicts with itself. It has no value, but it is still one of the so - called warnings about the induction of this package. More and more people are becoming more aware of the fact that this matter is being over and over and over again, the smoothness of its work, and its foulness and danger in nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u96	Madam President. Hello, Akureyri! In view of the problem. A senator mentioned in Carl Baudenbacher I feel about the importance of being loyal to the Norwegians, without any major issue of my question or answer. I would have thought, Madam President, that the time when the Icelanders were made to swear allegiance to Norway, had passed and several hundred years ago, but this may remind us that independence does not come on its own and that it needs to be protected. But because of him. A senator refers to Tómas Ingi Olrich and his excellent piece of work I want to quote here in a very good interview with his platoon brother, Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of the budget, and the review of the business magazine of that interview. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The latter is the third energy package, which has been discussed in detail, and can be seen at the bottom of the story. According to the report, the Icelandic government is concerned that with the development of the energy industry, ACER, the management of Iceland's own resources will be made weaker and more responsible for EU legislation. ▪ Our initiative in the inner market is based on a two-channel system, as shown by Bjarni, and points them to the provision of the legislation on the basis of EFTA rather than to accept direct control from the EU. Here the chairman of the Independence Party is deeply concerned with the European Union's greed for power through ACER. [[The president calls.]] Wouldn't it be better if he received a reminder from the above - mentioned Tómas Ingi Olrich regarding his own opinions as they show up in this interview? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u97	President. The first thing about the connection between 1262 and Carl Baudenbachers is that reminds me of an answer in a movie where you are harassed and he says to the one who harasss him: Wrong fucking century. In itself, we can agree with that. But that's exactly what you're talking about. According to a senator, it is remarkable that men such as Tómas Ingi Olrich and Ögmundur Jónasson do not have the standards for listening to their groups for some time now. Men with all this experience, men with all this knowledge, men who point out in a good way what might go better are ignored. It may not be luck to manage, Madam President, to ignore their best men because there is plenty of the other, as it is said, the less useful advice for stupid people than for others to meet. But that's not in this case unless the government seems to be using stupider advice but does not listen to his best men like Tómas Ingi Olrich and Algmund Jónasson. It's sad, Madam President. But it's not just sad. It is also very bad and dangerous because instead of having a case that is well built up, we are able to deal with a difficult and potentially devastating case. I will, hopefully later this morning, but maybe tomorrow, discuss the risk that we will have to pay the cost of this case and how to drive it through the habitual process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u98	Madam President. It is particularly strange that the Ministers of Iceland's Government should not follow guidance or even take into account the guidance of experienced men from their own groups when it is so well established and well supported. This is stranger to them, in view of some of the highest. Ministers have even previously expressed the same view, the same opinion, the same concern. What happened in the meantime? How can it be? One U.S. senator explained that to form the highest form. The secretary of finance, who went on this fine interview - one of his best interviews in my opinion - and outlined the position of the government, i.e., and the opinion of the Icelanders, much more indeed, should not now be particularly interested in discussing this energy package and supplying the things that speed up and letting others cover it at night meetings?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u99	Madam President. That's exactly the way it is. Senator, that I find it very difficult to explain this reversal, not just at the highest. There's also a secretary of finance who's holding on to others. I would have, for example. How much fun it is to have a prime minister here and ask her to explain to us and to the people what caused the left greens to be the leading spokesmen of free energy farming in Iceland and of the market resources of Iceland. It could be a very interesting conversation, and I hope we get to hear it. It might be worth one Mass with the highest value. Secretary of finance, who is not only the secretary of finance, but also the chairman of the largest political party in Iceland, the Independence Party, praying to the Supreme Court. To bring him here so that he may himself tell us what causes the transition. I'm having a really hard time, huh? A senator, to imagine what the motivation of this transition is. But I think it would be both fascinating and exciting for us who are here in this discussion, and for the whole nation, to hear what caused it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u100	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. This has been a fairly detailed review of this and the statements and claims on the connection and the obligation to swear and demonstrate loyalty to Norway. However, this reversal has also been discussed, which is the mentality and turn of which should be least reversed. In fact, it is my heart to say that there is one category in the Council of Europe that has been perfectly honest in its stand, and that it is the exhilaration, because there is a class that has declared its sole will to walk in the European Union with all its advantages and weaknesses and to have reasoned that matter, despite the fact that some governments might have been more meaningful about the subject and less of the fact that the people here have been spending the night together. But one thing is obvious, to the highest. A secretary of finance is read because he realizes in the statement given, that there is a greed for power at ACER, influenced by the European Union, that it is all empty and floating over the waters of this induction. I was very pleased with this interview, read it, and felt it because he described a stand that clearly shows the attitude of most of the Icelanders, and gave the hope that, as it were, there would be standing up here and following the people's will. I'd like to go inside. A member of the council will determine whether he believes that he is being deceived by the above - mentioned deceptions? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u101	Madam President. Deception is a natural big word. The most difficult thing to understand, as well as, in view of this good interview that has been drawn out, is this exchange, especially of the Independence Party. As noted in the discussions with us who have been discussing this matter, the independent Party is an advanced sect, on a 90 - year anniversary this weekend, and has been in charge of Icelandic politics for a very long time, and in charge of governments for decades. I think maybe it's time to advertise the Independence Party because the independent party we're looking up here and now, at least, the Party, is not the independent party we knew. He is not the class that stood by class, nor is he the class leading to independence of the nation. He is not the class that said: " Do right, do not suffer wrong. ' It's some new group you don't recognize, but the United States, although not European. This independence of proud party appears to be turning into a group of diversities. Perhaps it is the explanation of the transition, that men have become so bitter, and that this transition may be the same as it is. But it is certain that the leadership of the party and the party are warned, is well advised by men like Tómas Ingi Olrich, who ignores them completely. And he's not the only one. Good men, as I say, who have taken their stand by surprise, and have guided them; they have had no threats or pimps. They have only guided and pointed out, given sound counsel. They don't consider themselves respected. This is not the Independence Party I knew when I was young.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u102	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This statement, the motto of the Independence Party, has been echoed in my mind through this discussion: Do right, do not tolerate wrongs. It's no secret that the person standing here was formerly a social independent for exactly this reason. Hv. One senator wondered if the band was turning into a so - called group. Could it be that this is the so - called propulism in which people are afraid to stick to their convictions and pursue a course but rather follow what is considered popular in the social debate each time? That's a definition of propulism. [[The president calls.]] I would love to have thoughts at ease. A senator will see if this is a course shifting and leaning in that direction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u103	Madam President. So I now carry volleyball from the Independence Party, in part, it's in very bad company. He's having a rough relationship. Clearly, he has at the beginning of a traffic trip to the government that is now overindulging in anything, but he cannot break up or trust in him, thus allowing himself to be led into each failure by another, in line with this matter, and in full acceptance of the Marxian way by the health minister. This is what the pack is all about. And it's understandable that public platoons you meet in the East and in the streets stand and testify, saying, "I can't choose my party anymore. It's just not possible in decades. The secretaries of the party you've met don't trust to be on their side anymore. [[The president calls.]] It is certainly sad for the pack, but of course they find themselves in the group they trust to get up on difficult situations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was interesting how he quoted here at the highest. Secretary of finance and his meditation in these matters. It's not good because he's taken complete deportation on his opinions in terms of this energy package and in no less than a year - since he gave us a fairly remarkable speech, in which he was very concerned that we were about to generate a pack of three. If I may quote that speech, by permission of the president, I will say in one place - and that is the highest. Secretary of the budget that talks: ▪ So let us consider what we have to do on the inside market of Europe to be involved in electronic activities isolated in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic power issues from Iceland? It is of interest that the secretary of finance will then be responsible for implementing a three - pack of energy, contrary to what he has said here at the council. There is more interesting in a talk at the top. Secretary of finance. He says, with President's permission: ▪ What I have so hard to understand is interest. A senator and some of the members of the council are expected to submit to the invitation of the Common European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? It's natural, Madam President, it's a pleasure to review this speech in view of the fact that this speech is the highest. A minister is now working hard to drive this case here through the council to get under an invitation that he once was very worried about and did not want to come near. [[The president calls.]] In this context, what? Senator: How do you feel about this kind of presentation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. If I had to describe this speech in a single word, I might say, in the light of history, that it was progressive, that it was taken off and running from what they had promised all the time. But I've said before: I'm not sure that the Independence Party, e.g. would have had a good success if he'd gone to the campaign last year and earnestly said: "We're going three times to betray our national discovery of a pack of three and we're going to walk in the European Union. And I'm not sure that if they had gone to the stage and said, "We're going to be in the lead for the market of energy sources in Iceland." I'm not sure. True, it may be that some other groups had chosen these groups, all so different from this old, good nuclear package, I don't know about it. What may be the most strange thing about all of this is about to go through with it. The minister of finance is in the pit of his own people. And not only that, they are opposed to the attitude of the majority of the people in this matter. It's also completely incomprehensible - I don't know about the forward party that doesn't call all their grandmothers - that the other two groups are in complete opposition to the greater part of the people in this highly important matter. There's something that I can't explain, and maybe we just needed to get to the bottom of what's happened to these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u106	Mr. President. The last words were interesting. A senator: What has happened to these people? Now, the Independence Party is about to celebrate a 90 - year anniversary in a day or two, and it will be very interesting to hear about that coffee offer. It would be even more interesting to talk about the highest. The secretary of finance here a year ago would be reassigned to that coffee messenger, and men would be able to compare it with the activities of the highest level. Secretary of finance is in charge of this government. I'm afraid he'd be in a race, even have to leave the coffee company if that happens. Thank you. A senator for pointing these things out, and it is essential that we do so in order to show that the government and minister's case is different when it comes to this energy package. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u107	Mr. President. Now it's not my business to be concerned about the inner work of the Independence Party. But I have to say, like the lady of the north, that I would like to be a dead fly on the wall of this coffee-sale next weekend and hear what goes on there. It may also be interesting to watch for any members of the party who are going to go around blowing on those 90 candles and listening to the fine people, the grass roots of the pack, these deeply entrenched, self - serving old self - centered, who no longer know their party. To get to know and hear about the party, perhaps it would be a good reason for the leading of the party. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's just a good occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u108	Mr. President. Finally, I have the opportunity to discuss only Cyprus and the plan to connect Cyprus with Greece through Crete and Israel with a cable string, an electric cable. Cyprus is an island, and the European Union realizes it, just as the European Union has acknowledged that Iceland is an island. Therefore, it is interesting to have a real example of the aquaculture, the link between this island to the European Union's common energy network, in Iceland's discussions and speculations about the state and effect of the third energy package and the ACER could have on its state and possibly a link with an ocean cable. There is no doubt another situation in Cyprus regarding the public view of such connections, since Cyprus does not have the natural energy benefits we enjoy here in Iceland, and no doubt people will rejoice that the island will be connected to other countries by electrical cables. The interesting thing about Cyprus, though, is that it shows us how the process works. You see, Mr. President, it was his idea that interested investors would declare that they could invest in that cable. Then the process, the process described by the third energy package, took place. ACER, this joint energy agency of the European Union, contacted the national energy institutions to inform about this interest of the investors and to inform them or perhaps remind that national and national energy agencies, Greece and Cyprus, should keep ACER informed about the course of events, so that the ACER could monitor the development of the situation, no barriers would be put into place, but would be tried to help with the possibility of this development. It is specifically mentioned, and it is specifically stated in the rules that apply to ACER, which we will introduce here if governments have their own way, that when governments in those countries where they think they're connected with new electronic connections, they will be able to discern that there are investors with financial ability and ability to attack in such connections, immediately, as it is said, to inform ACER of their motivation so that the Agency can carry out its role to monitor the development of the project or failure of any obstacles. This proved true in this connection between Cyprus and Greece. However, there have been reports now that there was a babble in the boat, because investors who had promised this connection made it seem that the European Commission and the ACER too important to invest first in the woods around Athens, but they neglected this role. I see how little I am left of my speaking lesson, so I have to finish this story in a future talk. So I'm asking a respectable president to put me back on the rosary, for it is very important to use this reality so that we Icelanders can figure out what may be in store for a possible sea cable connection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u109	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk. Because, as he said in his conclusion, learning from others is essential for us Icelanders, and it is sometimes good, though it hurts, to learn from others'misfortunes. It is in the discussion over and over again how little this matter of Congress seems to be on the part of the government. It doesn't seem to be that a man sees his country. Humans are on their way, but apparently they cannot see the land. It's like this, what am I supposed to say, we can't say it's a trip without a promise? I think that's a polite way because I'm no better than that the case as it is now lived on a reef, unfortunately. This will be at the cost of the nation. Therefore, it is vital that we learn from the experience of others in these matters. We know from our previous wrestling with foreign power that there is no basis for calm, neither for anyone else's assistance, that men must help themselves, and that they are members. Molders in such a game, resorting to tricks, trying to exercise their authority, i.e. His superiority. That's why we must ask, and I'm asking. A member of Parliament: What can be done to ensure that the people of Iceland will not be exposed to the latrines, as is the result of this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u110	Mr. President. There's only one thing to do, using the resources that the EEA treats us to secure our own interests when we think they may be put at risk. If we don't, we'll get caught in the net or the spider web, like the whale. A senator mentioned earlier tonight. If we do not use the resources that are really there to get real good manners, we will be caught in the web. This discussion of what is included in a so - called fourth energy package has now been progressively clarified. In all respects, it is designed to sustain us even further in this site. You might argue that the third energy package is the bait and the fourth energy package the natural tissue. This is not a good comparison because we will be trapped when the government agrees with the third energy package without getting legal exceptions from it. This brings back to the question that we have tried to ask tonight without any comments from the directors. Why? Why is this government, which Ministers have even expressed their own serious concern about what is going on with this energy package, not ready to test out legal ways if we cannot get real replacements? Of course, we find it difficult to find the answer when governments do not try to come here and answer, not even coming and rolling or offering a possible explanation, but simply holding back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u111	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator and thank him for the answer. I agree with him that, of course, a man misses the fact that the board members are not here and participate in the discussion. I know why. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, who's president of the Cove. The Foreign Affairs Committee has no natural obligation to sit here and present what we're talking about, although she could surely profit from it or that's my opinion, and could learn something from it and possibly impart something to improve the situation. But I would like to ask. One more question is the legal thing to correct this matter. It is legal to reject this energy package. A number of jurists have moved that way. [[The president calls.]] And now I ask why. Senator: Why don't the government reject the energy package and send it into a legal policy of reconciliation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u112	Mr. President. The only explanation I find in this peculiar fact is that somewhere I was decided to drive it through, to finish it, no matter how well it might be explained that it was within the limit of the contract to seek solutions, legal solutions, no matter how many new things would come to light in the discussion as it has truly done. The Norwegian models, the fourth energy package, and to form what I was describing earlier in Cyprus. If people don't think I'm right about this, or if there's any way they can improve the scenario, I wish they would come up here and explain it to me. It would help me and us to come to a better understanding of the situation and in this case of reality that can give us Icelanders a glimpse of the consequences of the third energy package. But no, there are no answers, no tips, no responses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson made a success of his speech. He well described the position that ACER is intended to have and has toward those nations that are subject to the Agency's surveillance warrants. Hv. A senator described the effects that come on and how ACER actually performs his own surveillance role. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has examined specifically, e.g. On the home page of ACER, which is the function, the role of the EU institutions, however, it can be said that they do nothing about their role. It is usually possible to approach its core fairly easily. What lines are laid as to the ACER and the overnational power given to that institution under the rule of energy package, and how would it most likely be used to improve the activities of ACER here in Iceland to be introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u114	Mr. President. This is very clear. They can have it in the ACER and the European Union that they are not shy about identifying their goals. They think they're noble. Of course, they mainly work out to tighten power, increase EU central management, which seems to be a noble goal to the European Union or to those in charge. However, in particular the role of this institution, it turns on linking the energy market, the European electricity system, and increasing environmentally friendly renewable energy. As a result, this will make both Iceland and Iceland a top project for the Agency. It is also described how the Agency is expected to achieve these objectives. It is consistent, or so they put it, in the activities of European energy institutions. But when you look more closely at the text of how this harmony takes place, you see that it refers to surveillance, perspective, and to being careful that these energy institutions follow the direction of ACER. When a person sees a promising link project, find people who are willing to do so, ACER seeks to eliminate all obstacles to the reality of a project, whether it is legal, political, or economic barriers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u115	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I understood why. paritaprevir When Gunnlaugsson ran across ACER's sources and assigned ACER to eliminate any barriers for business with electrical energy across borders, did he properly clear up the account of David's son Gunnulsson? That's the way it is, if I understand why. A senator rightly, this is actually the authority that ACER has to recommend to the nations to remove any obstacles that might arise. In this context, I understand that the Icelandic state was actually the person in their arms who ordered them to carry out orders from ACER. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u116	Mr. President. There are a number of examples, real examples of how this institution has been involved in the development of nuclear energy in the EU countries, the countries that have already introduced the third energy package. About what question? A senator as to whether it would be in the power of the Icelandic government to remove obstacles must not be overlooked from the role that the Power Institute would play in that subject. It would be a branch office for this joint European agency and would be monitored to ensure that the Icelandic government would not put a stone in the path of a more promising project of such a kind, but it would be contrary to the fact that the government held matters in order to push and speed up such projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech, and I would like to continue for a moment, only as the rejection of this package of energy was resolved and that the case will be addressed to the joint EEA committee. In this regard, it is very interesting to consider the review of the former foreign minister and one of our chief specialists when it comes to the EEA deal, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's son. He says here and then he's talking about the right to reject the induction and take the legal route with the President's permission: This indiscriminate right of the EEA Member States to reject legalization from their national interests, without a court of law, was from the beginning one of the main arguments for the execution of authority. The contract would be within the limits of what was in accordance with the same constitution. So that's where this reserve is worn, which is thought to be of the importance that it is part of the contract conforming to the Constitution as unchanged. It shows that there is a very important right to be used. Then we get another opinion from a specialist called the State Department, Baudenbacher, who disagrees and calls it an emergency, etc. I want thoughts now. There's a senator in the discrepancy between these two parties. [[The president calls.]] It must have been in Baudenbach's álitsgerð that there were some lines established by the government. [[The president calls.]] That's not what I think you can see out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u118	Mr. President. In this case the government was buying a specific service and the seller of that service could no doubt be aware of what was required. I'm not saying that he declared something over which he didn't think it was true or that he wasn't telling the truth to him. On the contrary. As I have noted before, this scholar and former judge, Baudenbacher, is very European. I'd have understood if a minister of resurgence or solidarity had sought his opinion on such political questions. However, in view of the fact that everyone could be aware of his position, it is extremely strange that a minister of the Independence Party should seek the opinion of this man unless the minister wanted that position. Again, we are giving examples of a minister of Independence, in this case, the same as for a minister of the Foreign Force and the Left Motion as it seems to be, looking for support from people who have a completely different viewpoint, a whole different attitude, and especially in Europe, besides supporters, backends, his party. In other words, there is no respect for class policy. Instead of looking to the backland position, they look for other purposes to support what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. In this regard, the respondent and a very good diagnosis were made. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator has made this matter very clear, which is essential. Let us not forget that here, I quote the review of former foreign minister Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, our chief specialist in the management of the EEA Convention. He came to the deal when it was originally made and expected that he would know the most about it. If I quote him again, by permission of the President, he'll say: The EEA Treaty ensures the Member States' unconvinced right to reject the introduction of legislation on a designated set field, if it is not relevant or does not serve the interests of the State. For this, there are many examples. I think this says all that has to be said in terms of listening to our major experts, but don't buy any advice from abroad, advice from men who came, e.g. not on the contract itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u120	Mr. President. Yes, this is now one of the peculiar examples of the failures of the government parties to accept counsel from those who know things best. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's father has been called the father of the EEA Convention, so this may be similar to someone picking up an argument with a man who had written a manual, a guide, on a particular matter, and claiming to know all of this much better, i.e. more fully aware of what is really in the guide, not having a view than the one described in the guide, but knowing much better what the words in the guide mean. This, of course, is another example of what the government has experienced in trying to argue that the Council is expected to introduce the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u121	Mr. President. I want to take my heart to the words of the last speaker, that I don't think the government knows what trouble they've found in this important matter, we have to say right now, we don't want to listen to our major experts in this matter. I thought it was the best example. Yeah. A senator handled the guide as a very good and classic example of the core of this matter, that this is not the subject of the Convention, came to the guide, as it were. A senator said so well. Rather, listen to those who feel that they know how to guide them. Sadly, we do not use the best people in these material, which has the best information and knows how things were going. Because we know that when humans distinguish e.g. on legislation or legislation, the legal bill or the law is used in an effort to understand the law's will. She's a so-called lawyer. Then they get the ideas behind why the lyrics are in this way. I believe that exactly the same is true in this matter. We're here to talk to the people who came to the party on our behalf at the beginning. They know it best. They know the ideologies, they know the articles, as is so clearly evident in this excellent review by former foreign minister Jón Baldvin son of Hannibalsson, who I don't think was given enough attention in this discussion. I have to say, as it is, I am disappointed that I did not. I certainly hope that people will begin to peer more into it because there are many fascinating things there. It says former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Baldvin Hannesson, e.g. in his review, by permission of the president: ▪ Incorporation does not result in any repairs. The result is that the case is referred to the joint EEA committee, where the case is agreed on. This provides the only security available for safekeeping. So says Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson. I must say, Mr. President, that it is incomprehensible in my mind that we should not listen to a man like Jón Baldvin who knows this matter so well. He continues his review, with the permission of a president: It seems now that many people have forgotten that the great success that was achieved for Iceland in the EEA treaties was not easy. I have no doubt that he would have been captured without the support of our fellow workers in EFTA. This applies, e.g. We're about a fish vacation shop. I take it from our experience with the EEA contract at the time, that we had never achieved that success in two-way contracts. The same is true of almost full market access to the internal market, without EU support for the stress policies on access to resources instead of access to markets. In addition, Iceland received special training, which does not allow foreign investments in the fishing road. This is the bottom line. So we'll see to the highest. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, former minister of foreign affairs, knows this matter very well. Therefore, it is clear to me that we should listen to his counsel in these matters. He has expressed himself both in speech and in a recent publication on the process here on the part of the government. He feels that governments are wrong in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I completely agree with him in this and believe that we should use his skills to guide us through the next steps in these materials that are clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u122	A respectable president. I would like this speech to make it a subject of the emphasis that supporters of the third energy package have raised our doubts about the induction of the energy package, which includes our opposition to the EEA Convention. This tone has been reassigned to supporters of the induction and unsatisfying, I allow it to be said. It has, I think, that there is nothing to be said about our Central Case in terms of the matter, promoting that there is something right in the opinion that is claimed here, that we want to set matters up so that it is about putting the EEA deal on this. That's exactly what we're getting closer to. We mean that if the induction is made in the current direction it will put pressure on the EEA community. If we become more concerned, we will feel ourselves as a nation in the position that the only way to get out of the position we will then be caught under the control, including the ACER, that the only way out of that position will be to cancel the EEA contract. This is not our suggestion in the Central category, but it is our suggestion that the case will be referred to the joint EEA committee where the alarm will be adopted in a traditional way. That is exactly the way a number of scholars have advised us to go. I have to say, as it is, that I find this is not the reality of this situation to be the case with supporters of the third energy package. Of course, they know it's not real. It's a piece of butter from these fine politicians. This is probably thinking of setting us up for some kind of defense, which is no reason to be in, but we feel that reality is just as early as the cohesionists speak in these chemicals. I took with me in a pontte article as a boy. Haraldsdóttir Not long ago, April 17, under the heading: EEA, energy, and all kinds. It reviews the history of the EEA Convention and prosperity in Iceland and leads to the chances that prosperity in the last 25 years is primarily due to our occasionally free and independent trade with other countries. I agree with this. Of course, there is an enormous number of factors in which we engage in open business with our neighbors, which is the basis for success. By permission of a president, the following article says. paritaprevir Bruni Haraldsdóttir: The provision of the four freedoms and the access to the EEA market are based on consistent rules of goods and market services. Sometimes it is that rules that are of little importance in the continent have little or no importance here. This is true of the third energy pack. Once again, it's a message that just doesn't matter. It's just not a problem. But still, as so many have been introduced, the same advocates of the third energy package show that there will be a fundamental change in consumers' affairs, transparency, and the introduction of this enormously important matter, or business with our friends is going to be upset, and so forth, through the streets. But then the other band says that there's nothing in it, that's less or no point here, that is, the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, both are not released and kept in such material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine speech, the three of Ólason. He comes into the buttercup and he's trying to put us in opposition to the induction of this third energy package in some kind of defense. I think it's perfectly diagnosed and evaluated at the time. Senator. The main theme of the case of those who have claimed this is political resolution, the process of redirecting the case to the joint EEA committee is unable because of political uncertainty and serious consequences it might have, and that is the conclusion of that unsatisfactory man, Dr. Carls Baudenbachers. Now I know what to do. A senator has studied that opinion, and so have I. On page 18. 7 to the 15th in terms of Carl Baudenbacher's opinion of the foreign - business committee, says in a more loose translation of what we have not received in Icelandic, about the opposition of Iceland: ... that it is principally involved in the implementation of Regulation 713/2009 regarding ACER. It has been proposed that Iceland should record the case on the joint EEA committee with the intention of negotiating other adaptations or results for Iceland due to a third energy package, a total energy package, mainly Regulation 713/2009. The concluding words in this article are: That would do no harm, on the English tongue, which would be published in Icelandic: It would be impervious. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator of those words?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u124	President wants to see what he's doing. Councilmen to respect the time limit, be alert to these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u125	A respectable president. What is stated in Dr. Baudenbacher's 15th report is of great interest, to say the least. In the map - this is in the long report, I did not understand that correctly. A senator? Some people have gone so far as to call this terror chest, Baudenbacher's report, which seems to be this brilliant scholar, who is a bit politically colored, let it lie between parts, speak quite clearly that the way we media have spoken for, i.e. to adopt the case with the EEA joint committee with the objective of trying to achieve a more efficient decision in the matter, is the whole case, and we and our friends are inaccessible. This, of course, is quite remarkable considering the way things have been described so far. With President's permission, so I repeat by my memory, That would do no grief. That's indiscriminate. There's a completely different note there than the one who's been drumming up as far as Mr. Baudenbacher's position goes. This is what wants to happen when a group like the Central Party are put in position to have to go through the data in the middle of the discussion. [[The president calls.]] This is interesting, and I would like to thank the senator in particular for bringing this up. [[The president calls.]] I had missed this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The reason I'm drawing this up is because we have the members of the Central Party, pointed out that there are more ways than one and that we have an arrangement to settle this matter with Iceland's interests under control. I'd like to know if there could be a difference between completely rejecting the formation that was negotiated in the joint EEA committee, with a administrative notice from all the EEA states, Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland, and using the policy of reconciliation based on the European Economic Area Convention. Could it not be that Dr. Baudenbacher is pointing out that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u127	A respectable president. Yes, it should never be that Dr. Baudenbacher was directly pointing to the way we have spoken so much before and is, of course, as it is clear to everyone, built into the EEA Convention. At the same time, I'm pretty sure that those who received Dr. Baudenbacher for the project did not feel that this key point of his sentence at the end of the 15th report would be suitable, as this expert's viewpoint is not highlighted when the cumulative information is presented. It cannot be understood otherwise, so it is quite clear that he does not violate the process of reconciliation that is built into the 102rd century B.C.E. and there is no need to interpret it freely to see that he is actually suggesting that it be done and that it be done without cause. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She was good. He read from an article after he was sick. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. Another article she wrote, and the same is true. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason has been a bit on the subject. It seems that there is a misunderstanding or that it has kept track of the articles. It brings to mind again and again whether the point was in a way that can be accepted. I can think of these articles that have been a bit of a discussion, whether it is advisable to keep this matter a little bit, to set it aside until the fall, so that those who have it the most in the world can better introduce it, even to their closest members. What do you think? paritaprevir A senator says that the matter is subtracted, that it is delayed a bit? We're talking about September, two, three months, but that time could be useful, both to introduce it into the groups where certain misunderstandings seem to be around, and that I now don't talk about introducing it to all the supporters of the classes who seem to be very confused in the position of their groups toward the energy package. What do you think? A senator's thoughts on such matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u129	A respectable president. I think it would be very successful for a number of people to approach the matter in the way the senator proposed, to take the matter off, to postpone it to the fall, and to use the summer and perhaps the beginning of the fall in that first, to consider whether the way that was going against it was reasonable, and, secondly, to try to determine whether it is wise to refer the case to the common EEA committee on the basis of 102.g. The EEA Convention. You see, it is important to think that taking the matter off now and delaying to the fall will not force the government to refer the case to the joint EEA committee, but will simply give the government classes time to consider the matter further and consider ways to do so. Then, in the fall of that position, the decision must be made whether to bring the matter into full effect and, as a result, a closer look at it and more likely reasoned on how it is being held, or to refer it to the common EEA Committee, or to any third, fourth approach that might be possible. But I think that the time the council was given to consider the matter further could certainly be golden if properly thoughtfully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u130	Mr. President. I'm glad that I've heard what I'm saying. Senator. You see, there is one point of view that we've tried to trace here as best we can, i.e. that the matter has grown so large that it is in itself impossible or bad that political differences exist. In itself, I hope the senator agrees with me that in our eyes, who have been maiming, as we say, we don't consider it to be something political, the excuse, Mr. President, but to try to influence the matter in a good way. Does the senator not agree with me that in such a big matter, it is necessary to form a parapolitic stand and support? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I really think it would be possible if you could form a parapolitic solidarity over such a big and important matter. But what I think would be even more important if people didn't handle issues like this, even though there were disagreements, because there may be political differences - now we look forward to the fact that the issue is not about the core issues of the case, since we do not believe the alleged warnings. That's the perfect key. And driving the case through with such disagreements is far more serious to me than running through because people disagree about things from politics. But this core point of the evidence is that there's a problem between them and that they're not seen, not even at one extra meeting with a specialist who would be easy to call on and would show up within the day, I don't like it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's very interesting to go through the envelopes received by the State Department with a proposal for the interpretation of a pack of three energy, as we call it. There were 50 reviews, but what's informative and unusual is that 70% of the narratives were negative about the energy package and its induction. I will take only to the custody of the former general and minister, the Hjörleifur of Hjrefund, the son of Guttormsson, in which he discuss the cable. He explains under the heading that he describes as a "False Games" with the cable to achieve a solidarity over this system, i.e. to replace this pack of energy, have been included in the report below. He goes through the passage that a cable is not to be laid, except by the permission of the Generals, as it has been observed, but he says that it is really a unique craze, as he puts it. He also says that it has been working for years to prepare sea cables for Iceland at the European Union's energy market. In addition, he mentioned Land induction in this regard, HS Ennis, that all those companies have worked to establish a cable. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator's claim to Hjörleifur, son of Guttormsson, former minister and general, is that this is really a hide-and-seek with this cable? [[The president calls.]] It's a disguised way, and it's fascinating to hear from. A senator on this matter. [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u133	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. I must acknowledge, and I am ashamed, because I have not read the report of the former general, the Hjörleifur of Guttormsson, but will make it right afterwards. However, the doctrine of the former general of grief, such as that which has been universal in the matter since the beginning of the discussion, as the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, called praiseworthy deception, and turned to alleged warnings. I think that the interests under which they are built are that there's a lot of work to be done, I imagine, for those in this business to ensure the progress of the sea cables. I am confident that already many people have invested in the various activities, that there has been a lot of money in such preparation. There's all that suggests that a third pack of energy, adopted in a traditional way, as stated in a minister's data, will put the rule work all in the position that practically has been rolled out, so to speak, I'm not gonna tell a red carpet, it might be a few exaggerations, but it's all in the gear that sea cables fit in well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u134	Mr. President. Yes, it is odd that the governments and those who are working on this case, the committees and all involved do not take advantage of the knowledge and experience that many of us may have in that area. I named former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, quoted the review of Hjörleifur, son of Guttormsson, former industrial minister. Since then, other former ministers have described their opposition to this energy package and have had much to offer. I would say that there were some problems with the matter that we should not have used the experience and knowledge of these fine politicians in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the challenge by the Birgir of Þórarinsson and the need to agree with the viewpoint that it was and would have been desirable and that the whole matter would have come close to the matter with the more experienced man - made advice. It seems that the large group of men and women who are experienced in European cooperation is the most firmness when it comes to establishing their doubts in a logical and polite manner. This would have been of great benefit if a person had been allowed to listen more to the fine, successful group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u136	Mr. President. I have held several speeches on Directive 72/2009 on the grounds that it is the spine, one of the main sources of energy in a pack of three, which is to introduce. During my final talk, I was beginning to review the general objective of the administration of oversight as Article 36. This document is about and ended my case with the president's permission to read it: To eliminate business restrictions with electricity between Member States, including to develop an appropriate cross-border transport capacity to support demand and improve integration of national markets which can facilitate electrical flow within the Alliance. So it's the union that's an Alpha and an Omega in this, not Iceland alone. On I read, with president's permission: ▪ To contribute to the cost-effective development of safe, reliable and efficient systems without discrimination based on the needs of clients, updating the performance of the system and, in accordance with general energy policy, energy efficiency and integration of the microenergy production of the small manufacturer with renewable energy sources and diffuse electricity production in both transport and distribution systems. What does it mean that they are involved with the needs of clients, the support of the system's capacity in accordance with the general energy policy? What's the general policy on energy? That's the policy of the relationship. It's not Iceland's private matter. That's the policy of the relationship. This represents the general objective of the surveillance authority, which, as I entered earlier, is an authority that has been submitted to the European Commission and is now being heard, if this becomes reality, under the European Union via ACER. But who are these little producers of renewable energy sources and diffuse electricity production in both transport and distribution systems? Yes, there are smaller intensities inside about 100 permission for the current Icelandic government, i.e. for inducers of less than or equal to 10 MWs that do not have to undergo environmental assessment. Why would the application be 9.9 MW? Because the 10 MW activations need environmental assessment. I continue, with President's permission for the role, general objective: To facilitate access to the Internet's new production capacity, especially by removing barriers that can prevent new parties from access to the market and electricity from renewable sources. It is a requirement to introduce new parties, which may be not bad in themselves, to recruit in any trade, we can celebrate. But this is a special requirement. There are many talks here that there are people who have been investing or preparing for investment in the system we have built up, including The transport systems of electricity that have been built up at the expense of Icelandic taxpayers. There they are allowed to communicate without having carried the cost of what the nation has truly done with tax pay and enormous work and effort. I see that time is running away from me again. This is not nearly over. I'm just trying to understand why. A body of Congress on what is involved in the implementation of the directive. It seems to have floated by men, as has been observed in debates and objections last night, what is really part of it. But I'm going to, at the highest. President, continue with my talker after this speech and desire to be reassigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u137	Mr. President. I've thought of this conversation several times, especially tonight and earlier tonight, as well. A senator would no doubt be a brilliant lawyer if he had chosen that profession. Time and again he goes to dissect the text, the underlying text, and to get to the core of the matter. When I listened to a talk, why? In fact, I saw a lawyer in a movie - a defender who took a hard case, but by analysing the text and finding the core of the situation, he was able to save the defender, who in this case is Iceland and Icelandic interests. One of many things I found very interesting during the tour of ocean. The senator was now when he helped us to see how much of the overall plans displayed in the third energy packages are small activations, their integration, and their connection to the large system. It dawned on you, revealed why the most striking trend has taken place in recent times that these small inducers and new energy efficiency are being applied to Iceland. Is it not safe to conclude that this is because men have hoped that the third energy package will go on in such a way that prices will rise and the whole European market will open?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, answered and obeyed my voice. But his question is about expectations. The short answer is: Why should they not have expected? It's been drumming in the last few weeks that this induction is going to happen. Without a doubt, since a year ago, when political and military groups in that category battled to state that they were protecting Iceland's interests and that there was no way to take this induction, something has happened. The pressure that has been put on this matter has become obvious to me and to all, at least I think, who have observed this discussion. It's been put under pressure because there's money here. Such expectations are such that they already, without a doubt, have put money on researching activation options and expect that this will go through the end there will be no objections from government officials who have spoken the case. There's no need for them at all. And I think this is what it's all about. And when this is done, another thing happens: The expectations of the future will be legitimate because of the way leaders have spoken. And in the event that the induction does not resist the administrative problem, we will be placed on the roof of a misdemeanor of those who had those legitimate expectations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u139	Mr. President. Whatever it is. A senator mentioned in answer is so important that I don't think it's going to be a decent answer. I think this needs specifically to be discussed in speeches; the expectations, legitimate expectations, which the Icelandic government has in its progress to create and as a result of the damage it can result if people ignore these legitimate expectations and feel that they are not going to succeed. But there's another red thread in it as long as it could. A senator went over are goals that repeatedly show up to remove obstacles. Is it not safe, then, that when it comes to it, men think they're removing obstacles, they're saying: "We're doing a positive thing here, we're removing obstacles? And on this basis, will it be difficult for us Icelanders to care for our interests as we should?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, as I see it, by responding to and building up expectations and then making them legalize legitimate expectations, still increasing the pressure on the subject. The pressure has already been placed before this council concluded, and it has increased by about half after the decision was made, as well as by those who have been its followers, to give talks. That removing obstacles is positive - it may be in some sense in the continental environment, i.e. in the European Union's main concept of ideas. But it's not in Iceland. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u141	Mr. President. I'd like to repeat what I've said before in this discussion, that's why. A senator will likely explain this matter better and introduce it to the general population than the government class has done so at the time the case has been treated. He presents very clearly the legal complications behind them. Some people seem to think that the European Union is a Boy Scout category, which it is not. There is a need for caution when referring to a system of the magnitude of this relationship. The more important it is to get a well-designed nev to the game and move the matter to the point that it thinks. At that time, the bond is drawn to so - called warnings on this issue by the government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this notice because I intend to even say these words in a talk later in life. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A member of the council how he feels about the alleged warnings on the case as it is tore from the government, after which he feels that things could be done differently and/or better with them. I'd love to hear an answer from what happened. A senator on this two things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. With respect to the warning, they're two-ways. On the one hand, it's the warnings set right at the beginning. It is the governmental defenses set out in all three countries, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Iceland. Liechtenstein lifted his warning in May 2018, but Norway in April that same year. This was one of the criteria for the introduction of the third energy package into the EEA that all three countries would lift those warnings. This has not been done since Iceland has not lifted a governmental notice, and has been given a detailed discussion on the opinion of our best scholars that it has a problem to do so successfully. They have said that the way that has been selected is a postponement of that problem because a person can avoid that problem. I reviewed in my earlier speech that in Carl Baudenbacher's opinion, it is specifically stated on page 7 of the 15th issue in which he deals with Iceland's opposition to Regulation 783/2009 and a total energy pack of three, that it has been promoted by the European Commission on half of Iceland on the common EEA committee that Iceland would even want to bring back this approach to the joint EEA Commission because of this warning and try to re-negotiate other adaptations or results for Iceland. [[The president calls.]] The conclusion of this man's articles says that it can be rendered irreprehensibly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Thereafter, you may be even more surprised by the fact that the government has not taken the advice presented there. A man's infested mind is now thought that this good scholar and professor would have been brought here to Iceland, in effect, to put fear into our hearts and muster our hearts to the Icelanders. It is certain that the shorter edition of his report, which has been very promoted, kills on the fears and fears and that the European Union will become the most angry and we owe some favor to the Northmen or something like that. But after that reading, you are becoming increasingly incomprehensible for the government's failure to take it seriously and foreordain it. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear the Senator's opinion of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, that's the big question. It provides an answer, one of the big truths we've been trying to find for a while: Why is this way chosen? Why? I may not have come in well before that the backups are twofold. On the one hand, there are the administrative premises, which are placed right at the beginning and then the latter, which Norway set out in eight teams and has been pretty well over here, and on the other hand, these two, I think, in Iceland, is only vague. But why are they trying to go that way? The warning signs there would hold no water when it comes to its appearance. [[The president calls.]] There are a lot of people I've been learning about law that's accepted that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. All I wanted to do was bring about European Union and Iceland's interests when it comes to energy. We know that the European Union lacks electricity. It's a lack of energy, and electricity prices are high in the European Union. But when we look at Iceland, there is no nation that produces as much electricity as the population of Iceland. The European Union's interests are to ensure access to electricity at the lowest price - but Iceland's interests are that we use electricity to promote our infrastructure, promote our industry and our activities and improve the quality of our lives here. We've reached the sea cables. It's perfectly obvious that he is the key to all of this. The induction of this directive is only a step in preparing this cable, and then the application of our resources will increase. Then we come to the perspective of protecting Iceland's nature and towards climate. Now it is that in the presidency of this government, there is a class that has placed great emphasis on climate and environment. Then I ask, and I want to wonder from the beginning. A senator on the matter, what caused a group that has given high environmental importance to worry that, ahead of time, at the induction of this energy package, there is a substantial build-up in the nation's electricity processing, with resulting activations, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is a valid question, a big question is asked. Climate has been a major problem in the dough and in recent discussions with people and the media. They are the world's problems. True, there are many things in this discussion, but there are other statements that some scholars consider to be added and that may not be valid. However, to answer the question about why the majority of environmental groups are taking such a stand, I think that reasoning might be a responsibility for us Icelanders to sacrifice less interests for more, i.e. to sacrifice the nature of Iceland to be on the team that saves the world's climate. You might ask yourself, " Is that the logical conclusion, whether it will be the heavy load of paint? ' I'm not sure that it is, nor am I sure if the need is so great that we need it. But the other is perfectly clear and correct, which was expressed in the matter of the day. A senator, that Icelanders produce about ten times as much pure energy and have activated more than any other country. The lack of clean energy in Europe will hardly be the responsibility of Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. And I agree with him that it is hardly necessary for us Icelanders to compensate for a energy shortage in the European Union. However, it seems that the European Union is looking at us in these areas. Mr. President. It is quite clear that once a sea cable becomes reality, energy efficiency in the country - and is already under way, because it knows that there is a great opportunity in this sector for pure energy to sell energy to Europe. But could it be that members of a team such as the left greens are so green that they do not realize that sea cables will translate the marvelous structure of electronic energy workers in Iceland at the natural expense?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Thus, regarding the responsibility of our Icelanders, this program has been described, as well as in the media, by its members, that the European Economic Convention has been very useful to us Icelanders and has brought us much prosperity. I'm not going to argue with you, but it's been said that it's time for us to swallow it sweet with it, i.e. that even if we have to agree that this is not quite good, it is in order to thank for what we have received with the European Economic Area Convention. To answer the question, Mr. President, I think the left movement has not fully understood the cost of Icelandic nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u149	A respectable president. Now at 5:30, I assume that the president aims that this meeting will be held until about the same time as yesterday, which would be the long way through. 9 bearing in mind that the committees will begin at 2 p.m. 9. If there's any other plans at the top. It would be interesting for a president to hear of them on an organization. Otherwise, we expect a meeting to be the same as yesterday. What I'd also like to ask is if there's any information about the travel of a foreign minister, whether he's coming and possible with us here in our discussions when they begin off the committee in the afternoon. It's been quite a while since the highest. The president was asked these questions. I would like to be informed if there is anything in that subject or not. The industrial minister of Þórdís Reykfjörð Kolbrún The Lady Gylfadóttir will be here. Although the matter is not hers, it has to do with the underlying issues in the third energy package. V.E.G. The list of projects might be added by the president to ask if it would be available for a future discussion during the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u150	Mr. President. I'd like to direct it to the highest. President to have the highest power. The prime minister of Iceland took part in postponing this discussion and making it a useful revision, especially in view of the fact that I know that I am at the highest level. The president has been sitting here listening to the discussion all along and is very familiar with it. He has noticed that this has been a very perplexing and well - supported argument that has greatly deepened the discussion since the previous year. of the Parliamentary decree. I want to pray to the highest. President to direct it to the highest. Prime Minister to request that this be delayed and that the case be reviewed. I think it would be beneficial for all, especially for those who have recommended this approach and that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u151	Mr. President. I agree with them. People who have spoken before to me that it would be that if they could see us coming to our meetings and share their views on the big issues that are important to us, they would be able to communicate with us. I hope, as this has also shown, that it has not passed by the Supreme Court. President, here are new and deeper information on this subject. The ill - preparedness of the matter is revealed better and better. That's why I think there's a lot of money in getting one of the managers in a house, e.g. Chairman of the State Department. It was also shown in talks earlier this morning or tonight that there has been a significant change of direction at the highest level. Secretary of finance on this matter. [[The president calls.]] It would also have been, I think, very necessary that he would come here and explain the changes in his mind in this matter in a short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u152	Mr. President. I take to heart what has been presented here, wishes to lie down on the subject of the discussion that will be held here this afternoon, where we have requested that the minister of the jury come here and answer questions that burn us in these matters. We still believe that important questions remain for us. I mention, for example. a statement made by the Ministry by Baudenbacher. In addition, I believe that there is a need for a environmental minister to come here and answer certain questions. The discussions have caused concern for the environment when it comes to this energy package, Iceland's environment because there is evidence that there is a major development in electricity production in the country. [[The president calls.]] The nature of the country is mainly affected by it and it is necessary that environmental ministers come into that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u153	Mr. President. We haven't been asking the highest. President on the field trip. Secretary of state. We have simply assumed that a dignified president would make the arrangements we would ask for at least. half a day, I think, and I checked to find out where the top was. The minister of foreign affairs is on the planet's surface, and whether there is no way he could return to this house to answer the many questions we have asked or react to the many new angles this discussion has revealed. We cannot conclude the discussion without the minister who brings up the matter in response to the information that has been in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u154	Mr. President. I agree with what has been presented in the Senate case under this team. I think that it may be clear to all the models that have been presented here in the case of the people who have been most prominent in both the initiatives and the contributions that are relevant and that it may be clear that the matter will not be led to the outcome except for those in front of the case. I think it would be to reiterate my request to have a prime minister in the case and to the highest degree. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, would be willing to take the matter off for now and seek reconciliation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u155	Mr. President. The reason I wish to speak to the president's conference board again is because of the Supreme Court. The president has not responded to a question I asked earlier, and others, but not just now, half a day ago, since I sought the answers of a respectable president, I would have considered a relatively simple question to be where on earth - I still assume that the Supreme Court would be there. Minister on earth, top minister. The minister of foreign affairs is present, and when may we expect him to attend the Assembly Hall to answer the questions raised and respond to the many new points mentioned in this important and important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u156	The president would like to inform us that, as of this moment, there is no information available on the situation of the minister of foreign affairs or other ministers, but we will use ourselves to seek them and inform them. Parliamentaries will see to it as soon as possible. For a request for the duration of the meeting period, considering the design of the beautiful day that has arrived, the plan is to continue a little longer, but it will be given more space to prepare for committee meetings and other activities of the day, and it will further build up energy for the projects than we did yesterday. It will continue for a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u157	A respectable president. I thank you for giving this memento that men will be given more time to prepare for a committee meeting today than yesterday. I have to say, though, that these steps are a little nervous without further discussion on the subject. I want to pray to the highest. Because now it's not that the president calculates by emptying the rosary, to the highest level. The president is not just ready to give us a date with some tiny margin of error for how long he can support the meeting. This could affect the organization of some senators on how they conduct their next hours. I just want to direct this to the President in all my kindness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u158	Mr. President. One of the scholars and experts who have expressed themselves about the third energy package is an Eyjólfur the Ármannsson lawyer, one of whom sent a commission to the State Department on this energy package. This report, or a lawyer's statement, is a tremendously successful one, and to his credit, and I want to witness here and where it is, not very organized, though. On page 18. 1 says he, by permission of the President: Energy is one of Iceland's major natural resources and should the Icelandic government want to ask for the hearings of the joint EEA committee and want it not to be a part of the internal energy supply market in Iceland, since the country is not part of the EU's internal energy distribution network is not linked to the internal market. The same principle applies to the cohesion agency, which involves a fundamental change in the internal energy market, which is developing a national monitoring agency with the market. He also says on page 18. 2 - Then he has reviewed the common understanding of the energy manager of the EU and the foreign minister of Iceland and I have to say, in effect, that there is one sentence to be presented here, by permission of a president: As for the induction of the third energy package in Iceland, conditions in Iceland are quite different from those in countries where energy networks cross borders. Therefore, the specific setting for Iceland, as agreed by the European Commission, is the best option for the Icelandic environment, avoiding all unnecessary burden. He says: It is not known which special arrangements for Iceland to be agreed by the European Commission, which is the best available for the Icelandic situation, but it is not shown in her decision. So this is a big question that in itself is not answered. But he still comes to his conclusion, this good man: Therefore, it would have been expected to introduce the correct national commitment to Iceland's key natural resource by a Regulation but to review later - if a cable is to be laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and also to consider whether the induction conforms to the Iceland Constitution. Obviously, the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights and if it conforms to a constitution. Mr. President. I find this truly interesting to be the conclusion that governments themselves are in doubt about the legal basis for the proposed implementation of their own products, national rights bonds, and if they fit in with a constitution. A little later in this report or review says, by permission of the president: ▪ If you become the body of Congress approved, you are not meeting the national rights commitment to take three EU types of electricity and the cooperation of the Agency into national rights, such as Article 7. The EEA Convention. Only governments are authorized to accept it. Consuming is not a law nor a government authority for the regulation. If the induction of the EU is to be delayed for an indefinite period of time, it must be made clear in the Parliamentary arrangement, unfortunately not. Induction delay is not the induction of national rights commitment. Mr. President. These words of this specialist are yet another entry into the discussion that has been over and over again, both tonight and last night, last night, last week, about the fact that this case is being handled in a foam business. The matter is to be taken away from the program. This should be considered better because there are more and more things that are going on in support of just what we have said during this period on the problem and how badly it is prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u159	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to the views of an annual lawyer's Ármannsson Eyjólfur. Hv. The senator discussed the introductions and related issues of opinion. I'd like to grab hold of the publication '-EES Court and the national rights, by Professor Dr. Davíð Björgvinsson's son. On page 18. 88◯89 is amongst others. discussed the implementation of regulations. It says, by permission of the president: The decision on whether it is right to promote law by law by law or general administrations is a general legal opinion. Go on says: It will be carried out on the basis of the first finding out whether or not a law can be brought into force by a general administrative committee and if sufficient authority is available in the general law. Go on says: The measures taken by the European Union are equivalent to those in the EU rights, the most relevant secondary types of legal action, in terms of matter, values range and right effects, where the obligation is to address them as such to the national accord of the Member State's Treaty. Then Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, took the following: The legislation of the legislation of the Regulation is a law on free employment and home state-to-house pay people within the European Economic Area No. 47/1993,◯ The plans now exist that the controversial Regulation, 713, should be implemented correctly by the Council of Industrial Affairs. You may ask: What reasons are there for choosing to introduce this controversial enterprise by administrative instructions, by regulations in this case rather than by general law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter, an important entry into what we have been discussing. We have just asked ourselves this question: Why, what should I say, is the weakest means used to introduce this very important structure, that I do not speak about why, on the basis of principle, in unsettled Regulation, in the introduction of this great matter? Then comes what this good lawyer, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, says, as I read on page 6. 2, with President's permission: It is clear that the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights obligations and whether it conforms to a constitution. This is an act of complete error in my opinion, and in itself it harmonizes with other legal views that had established a definite doubt as to whether the induction or the regulation under which it is established, i.e. This package, would hold a constitution, and there would be no doubt as to the fact that it would be carried out by a very grand supply of power to a foreign organization. I agree with what. A member of the council that it is not understandable in itself that this is the course of action at the introduction of the procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u161	Mr. President. So there are two methods to introduce these types. The second is the one I quoted about the induction on - where was I? That was the case. Yes, an example of legalisation of regulations is the law of free employment and staff-based pay force within the European Economic Area, Code No. 47/1993. Another example is legalization of the European Convention of Human Rights, and other cases are traced. But the author in effect says: These types are most commonly introduced by the Regulation. All right. Now it is stated that this prerogative, which has been sent by e - mail, has not been sent to me by e - mail, but through other means - is special in the sense that there is a special priority toward what has been discussed in this matter. When, for that reason, if these examples had any possibility of having any kind of work, some translation, which seems to have been hoped, you would have expected this induction to be made by law. And since humans are on the other side trying to disseminate this document, dragging it into a system of induction, you ask why there is no explanation why it is chosen to implement a Regulation rather than a law from either side to side, and why there is no explanation or discussion or analysis of this warning and its potential to influence the course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u162	Mr. President. In this case, everything seems to be the same well. The matter is so ill prepared, the matter is so weak that in itself it can hardly be debated how badly it is done. Even so, the conclusion of this fine attorney that I quoted, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, is very simple. He simply says, by permission of the President: The third energy package is to be turned down by the General Assembly and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such treatments do not threaten the EEA agreements and are fully in accordance with its regulations. And he saith unto him, This would be the first time in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention, which a management executive would be used, and a case referred back to the Committee, for the first time intended to transport Iceland's major natural resources to the international monitoring and regular activities of the EU internal energy market, a market not part of which Iceland is part.• Mr. President, I'm pretty impressed. This is probably the third or fourth legal opinion that goes in the same direction, i.e. that there should be simply the use of the rights available at 102 C.E. The EEA Convention to ask that the same EEA Commission issue the case because we will reject the package as it looks and ask for it to be made to serve the better interests of Iceland for a short and long time. This in itself is what the following sums up. This is it, Mr. President, for which we must continue to fight for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's euphoric speech. The material was, in fact, a failure and neglect of the case and of the Congress arrangement that initially attracted my attention. I was so lucky I was in here as a deputy of the previous siege. This matter, and so by chance, for I am here again to the second. But it was a great deal of effort, by the minister of itself, and by the travellers, and by the responsibilities of the Senate decree, to make a special attempt to see how much work had been done, how long it had been worked, and that all its reforms and sentences were specially tried. The talk was very important, thank - you talks, but I believe that it is here that it is, unfortunately, not. I'm not trying to convince people that they didn't work much or that they didn't work hard, but I think that the conclusion is that there's not been enough work and that they haven't had enough time to do it. I'd like to be curious about the senator's thoughts about whether he understands, like me, that some kind of pressure at the time caused that council decree to appear today but not in the autumn as it was in the highest order. Industrial, innovation, and travel minister had already suggested that as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u164	Mr. President. This could be the whole point and could be the reason why this case is over, i.e. that the case was decided, industrial, industrial and tourism minister in this case, that the case was made to appear in the fall, but for some reason that the horse was changed in the middle, and they thought: No, we need to present this matter now. This may explain and help us to understand why this matter is as bad as it is. There are so many things in this case that show a measure of despair. The last change is that of Professor Carl Baudenbacher, who is called here at the last minute to give, apparently, some acceptable opinion of the case. It is true that in the original opinion of the fine scholars Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friður of the Árni Friðrik son of Hirst, they fight behind and neck, understandable, not being drawn into politics. They get a tip about doing things differently than they do at the start of the Ministry. I'm not saying they were under pressure, but it's suggested that they do this differently, which they do. I am not trying to minimize the honesty or scholarlyness of these men, as it were, but it seems as if they have been in the habit of looking for acceptable conclusions throughout the whole time, running, and therefore the matter is made up as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u165	Mr. President. Regarding one fact that I may have been trying to use time and research it better in the fall, why can't the matter wait until the fall? - and that's the date of September 23rd. On that day, Norway's administrative court will decide whether Norway can introduce and escape the administrative notice they immediately made on the same EEA committee. If Iceland can be placed in a position to lift it out of a governmental notice or actually go against it - be in the position of misintegrating it, have established that law, despite its going against the Constitution and making a certain commitment to national rights - would it not be easier to put even more pressure on the Norwegians that would be appropriate for the European Union? I fully understand that the European Union is closely following its targets and policies, doing so by any means necessary. I can totally understand that. There are important interests. I think this may be the focus of it and throw it to the ground. The senator would see if he could understand this as a special point in the case, the date of September 23. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u166	Mr. President. Yes, it can be. But there's something else I've been doing on this one too. We've heard from more than one and more than two that this case is not appropriate. It didn't happen to be the first thing to be rejected, obviously not appropriate for this case. There has been no explanation, at least not that I heard or understood. Why is this case not the right thing? Why is that? What Is the explanation for this? I can't imagine. Is it too complicated or too big? It would make sense to what they have said, i.e. that it doesn't matter. There's nothing in it. Then why is this wrong to send for the EEA joint committee? If it doesn't matter, if it's trivial, isn't it, if it's not really the language, if it's the language, Mr. President, if it's such a minor case and it's of little importance? I would have thought so. And what is the risk if it is so trivial and of such little importance? So, what's the risk, Mr. President, for us? Professor Dr. Carl Baudenbacher said: The European Union will certainly turn upside down, turn around, if the Icelanders do this. Yes, we expect it. We've had one of these, and we've been walking through them with our eyes open, knowing that we wouldn't be the most popular girl at the dance for having resistance. But we've had some victory in several places, and as we've been through the night and this morning and last night, sometimes it's just nice to say, "No." If we say no but do not let things pass, we may at times have the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u167	Borist has a letter from the fourth. Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir, says that she will be absent at the next time in public affairs. So today, on Wednesday, May 22, we are taking the seat of the Allied Council as an assistant to her 1st Pirata list in the district of Olga Margrét Cilia. In the past, she has taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u168	The president considers it an agreement on Monday to allow for a meeting to last longer than the norm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u169	The prime committee decided today to change the General Assembly plan that a meeting will be after the committee meeting on Thursday, May 23 and Friday, on Friday, May 24. It is based on the possibility that a meeting can begin in the afternoon of both days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u170	President. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the excellent staff of the Generals for their well-being these past few days and nights. The issue is to warn the president that the Council's time management can be better adjusted than has actually witnessed in the past few days. When I was in the government, the left men were in a position of government, and they needed, as theirs is often, to express themselves a lot, to talk a lot about all kinds of cases, both large and small. We did not want to try to silence them or hide what they had to say by making them talk. 5, 6, 7 or 8 a.m. Thus, there would have been nothing to say, and it would not have been necessary to give a better or more exhaustive discussion or to speed up the council's activities. I encourage the president to consider whether the Council's time cannot be made better than it has ever been seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u171	The president is eager to find ways to make more use of the council and accept advice from men with great organizational ability. However, when such discussions need to be discussed thoroughly and for a long time, there is little more to do than extend a meeting. This has already been stated by the president in the context of what we are doing in our time. But I agree with what. A senator who is employed by the Generals deserves great credit for his hard work and his selflessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u172	Mr. President. I think it's right to say that there was a greater part of the Presidency Committee that decided this morning's arrangements, just to be said. Other than that, I'd like to say that this arrangement will, in the opinion of the one represented here, not pay for other matters of Congress. Such arrangements as these generally upset the activities of the council, which we all want to avoid. But you'll see. Of course, when meetings are arranged in this way, we use our time to the best of our ability, those of us who have recently used the Council's time. We are discussing matters in which 63% of the people agree with us, and we want to talk to that group and show that the council listens, or that part of the council listens to what the people have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u173	A respectable president. I would like to agree with those who have previously thanked the members of the Parliament for their well-work during the past night and at the same time remind me that it is the President of the Council, who is backed by a greater section of the prime committee, which directs the handling of the high Council. I just want to say that yesterday's discussion took 19 hours. I am suggesting that it has often happened before that this meeting has been held for 19 hours without even having a discussion about the President's conference board. Thus, we will not be exposed to what we read, discussing that we have been spending the day on that part of the program. I'd like to mention that part of the Time Management Board could be the president's decision to decommission the matter in order to adopt a informal opinion on the direction of the State Department and see if any of the questions we in the Central category have been trying to call for answers during the past few days without any response. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u174	I'm glad to hear that the President's conference board was so successful last night, night, and this morning that comments were not made to her. The decision of the Presidency Committee for lunch today is only allowed to meet if necessary. It was made clear that there was a warrant for adding meetings on Thursday and Friday, if necessary. Take care of things and help us, for example. Today and the evening well and we are happy with the harvest due to this day, we can reevaluate whether we need a meeting on Thursday and Friday. It was made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u175	President. I'd like to ask a president to part with us to help us do our work here at the General. During the 19 hours mentioned earlier and, in fact, more times, we have raised many questions to the council members. They have rarely been answered, and they have simply not been answered in any way. I have the idea that the President will take the advice that he well knows well to get someone in town to print up the spoken word. He may be able to listen to these recordings and thus print them up, take them and distribute them to members of the council who have been asked and encouraged them to come and help with the Senate work. If this is not the case with the staff of the Generals, no doubt he can arrange for a contractor to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u176	The President now assumes that there is a problem. People in general have observed the discussions and heard what has been presented, as well as that which will be quite as accessible. But this is a good idea for the President to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u177	Mr. President. I am here to request that you and I be members of the Central House be able to have a word or two. Councilmen of Brusti Haraldsdóttir and Árnason Arnam. We wanted them to come to the room to answer what we would like to say in newspaper articles as a matter of course. Councilmen have submitted. This is my request that the president try to see these senators stay in the hall to correct the false records, if that is the case. I wish for the highest. The president put it into practice so that the discussion can continue to become perplexing and all inquiries answered by the middle class members that it has not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u178	The president points out the possibility of answering a newspaper article.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u179	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to say thank you for everything. A president for a good conference board board and his suggestion to pay for the discussion by extending a meeting if necessary. It's obvious. The members of the Central Party feel that they have to discuss this matter very much. I have to understand that during the first few days of the discussion, members of the board took a very active part in discussions, both during the past week and actually in the past discussion as well, so there is no complaint that there was some lack of participation on the members of the members of the council that make up the government or otherwise support the matter. However, when the members of the Central Party use their time primarily to represent one another in response, they may have diminished the interest of the members of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]] It is not very exciting to participate in such a discussion. That's not very rewarding. [[The president calls.]] But materially, the discussion took place, and it was completed before this media conference began. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u180	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers and social and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u181	President. I assume that the President's right is right, to the highest level. Secretary of finance has been paying close attention to the discussions here at the council. One of the many new and unsuspecting items that were spoken here last night, in fact in this case early night, were so-called warnings, eight warnings of the Norwegian Council with the third energy package. Now I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Has he examined this warning? They're very interesting in various ways, since most or all of them turn to points we've been worried about here in Iceland about this third energy package and have been answered in a way that's even fantasy. You would think that the energy package would have a far greater impact than it does. Nevertheless, the Norwegian Council has a reason to provide eight legal warnings that concern those matters precisely because they were really concerned about the effects of the third energy package in this regard. Has the highest. Ministers study Norse's warning, why on earth does the government take its so - called notice, a comment in a paper, and where are they trying to find it? Why, on the other hand, the government did not risk at least. as clear as the Norwegian Parliament in this case? In fact, even the prime warnings of the Norwegian Council have not been a lot to say. Today, they have not been answered by the European Union 14 months later. Yet, they clearly describe the concern of the Norwegian government of this third energy package. Why does the Icelandic government not have similar concerns?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u182	A respectable president. I can't put it at ease, first of all, that it is good to accept the matter with the minister of the seminary as a matter of course. A senator goes in here. There's a question about why there are no warnings of Iceland on the part of those who are made in Norway. It's first, so we don't have all the same position in Iceland as that in Norway, where Norway has connected to the European energy network. Other than that, first what. A senator asks if a person is aware of a warning that has been promoted at the Norwegian Parliament, you ask: "What is it in those non-fiction warnings, warnings that may have been made at all levels of this matter, including, the very opposite? when the General received this in accordance with the European Parliament's current treatment? Hv. At that time, there was a senator, a prime minister. Then the council was given the help of responding to political opinions and other concerns that the council would have at the outset. During my time, when I was chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I emphasized that we changed the political arrangement of these cases. This situation fell into exactly a new arrangement that ensured the arrival of the council in the first degree. Such questions were raised as to whether it was a political opinion. The Senate concluded that they were not. Other points to be discussed were discussed. This was taken into account in the final issue. Other than that, I wondered which points are in the number of warnings that may be made in the process of bringing this issue into force that does not satisfy the comparison with Norway. A senator is referring to something material that we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u183	President. The answer is simple, it's all of them. But first, the highest. A minister began by referring to the highest. Secretary of state, I would have liked to ask him about this. But he's lost. There's nothing for him or at least little since this discussion started here. So you have to go to the chairman of that class. But I understood the highest answer. A minister of finance who has not studied Norwegian warnings, including some. Until Norwegians demand to self-program whether cables will be added, new electrical connections will be added to the European market. In fact, many of these put up a fight against the aims of the third energy package, which, as I mentioned earlier, the Norwegians have not even been told. We received no answer as to why the Icelandic government would have decided to offer a much weaker advance than the Norwegian Parliament, not even legal notice, but some comments that humans are making such public warnings about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u184	A respectable president. As a result, every time you get into a material discussion about this matter with members of the Central Party, they expose yourself with a lack of moisture. The foregoing example is that the Norwegians have reserved the right to determine for themselves whether they will be killed. - Wait, what are we doing in this matter but putting before the council a matter that is the exact result of the decision made by the Generals to determine in the future whether a cable or not here is going to be laid? And how does the senator come to realize that we are doing this in a completely different way than the Norwegian Parliament? So this is a completely lost situation. [[Up front.]] That's exactly what we're suggesting in Iceland. This is a very lost situation. As it seems, every time you call for something materially to discuss it, it will be blown to pieces and will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u185	Why doesn't it work...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u186	A respectable president. At 570,000 bucks. Pension funds from retireees will not be paid from the government's insurance agency. But what does a pensioner get from the government insurance agency at the command of the current government with a law on half a pension? Yes, if a pensioner has 248,106 bucks. He gets half a half a mile from the government. He gets 124,053 k. every month for a pension from the TR, and an additional month, he gets a home remuneration of 31.348k, or a total of 155,000 bucks. And this is under the government. Although he has 570,000 from a pension fund, 1 million in income, a total of 1.5 million in income, he receives 155,000 dollars. from the state. In a discussion about the people's case about losing employment, a minister said that it would open up more for the rich. But he's opened up more for the rich. If anyone has 1 K. Under 248,000 dollars, which most of the population have, he will not get a dollar. One dollar takes 155,000 bucks. from the one most needs it. At the same time, a $70,000 pension fund is paid from most people who receive a pension fund, microns, and others, mostly female. Is this your righteousness? How are you going to change this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u187	A respectable president. I'm sure it's the social security system, although that in itself does not belong entirely to the secretary of finance. But here's why. A senator is about to enter the extremely complex interaction of a variety of income currents that may be of various origins at the position of microenergy donors. I have to say, I don't think there's a way to answer in any detail, because how this complex interaction comes out in individual cases, and I'm certainly not in a position to answer it right here and now based on the long list of probings. There was a senator. But I've been in Tr.is many times. You can do this on your computer or on your phone and enter the basis for the age of the disability donor, social status. For example, a person who has three children in his hand, a skilled cohesion payment, has become invalid early in his life, saying, for example. Twenty-five years old, one with three children, has no other income of any kind - none - no income, no pension income, no income. What does the calculator tell us that the micro-energy pensioner has on tax support? The answer is that the tax - based provisions are about 461,000 dollars. It is the support our system shows those in that delicate position. If a person wants to go out in individual cases, it is very easy to present various examples, but the underlying factors must be considered on an individual basis. People live alone? Do People Tell Children? What kind of streams of income are involved? What I see as a financial minister is that we've been adding to the system since I went to the Ministry about 40 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u188	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, but he still didn't answer my question. We're in this calculator right now, and you can put a million in a pension fund, a million on employment income, millions on funding, and still pay 155,000 dollars. to this man who has over 2 million dollars. At the same time, you punch in an invalid, 70,000 bucks. A pension fund. Zero. Why? I ask you, how can it be natural that at the same time as a minister says our bill about cutting off the income of an older citizen's profits and being only for the rich, when it stops at 570,000, but this bill, half and half, already through, doesn't even stop at 3 million? Why is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u189	A respectable president. I'll think about it. A senator who says half and half is referring to a change of rights. It's a law-change that was thought of at the time to improve flexibility and freedom of choice in the system. I find it hard to understand that there is a need to criticize the system change that we viewed as a matter of improvement in people's freedom of choice and to see that the circumstances of people may vary, and there are some who would benefit from this flexibility while others would simply choose not to do so. Other than that, I hear that this is a process of criticism of the loss of pensions, and I think we can agree that in some cases there may be a problem with the breakdown of rules. It is an experiment, with a weak chance, to make sure that the amount of money is spread to those who have a minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u190	A respectable president. V.E.G. Social Affairs Minister knows the choice of disability, or I don't believe it. The way we have been with this group for many years, and we still do, is dishonored. Scarers in Iceland are the members of society that have been lost in all the North countries and can be searched elsewhere, which I allow to claim. This is especially true of those who have become retarded young. They have little or no pension rights through involvement in the labour market, and their property is very low. A respectable president. Now it is time for unemployment benefits from 100% improved rights to be considerably higher than disability improvements. In general, employment benefits are intended to temporarily bridge a sector of employment while disability reform is thought to be a longer term extension, as it has been. The lot of a number of microbes is scraping with small disability, not just a few lossers, but decades, even from an early age to the middle of the age, to the age of 67. There is nothing but contempt behind the government's decision to raise unemployment benefits beyond disability, a lack of respect for this vulnerable group. What will the Minister do? Does he feel all right? Are we still to learn that the matter is in progress, as he has talked about for nearly two years? The Ministers, for example, live on, and for an indefinite period of time with the same amount of jam and syrup? How can the highest. Ministers, look on the shameless face of the desperate and say: " Calm down, all of this is coming? The same minister who claims to be part of a political party that on contending days brings the slogans of social justice. When can a person expect righteousness? When can disability expect to be at least equal to those who are unemployment workers, so to speak?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u191	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. Brjánsson Question. As the senator knows, we have the budget of the current 2.9 billion to improve the quality of the disability donor. The funds were intended at the same time as the decision to move into a system change would be made. In connection with this, it is assumed that they will be laid down in the current year and that the Ministry will have been working on how these funds will be set up. In fact, it is expected that they will be largely arranged to reduce the decline in the system, a dollar against a dollar. But from that point on, we have 2.9 billion. The financial program expects us to have 4 billion next year. She's now being treated at the council. I guess they're picking her up. Thus, in terms of the financial resources available, we will present a bill that assumes that the funding will be replaced to improve the quality of the disability donor. At the same time, we expect at the next assembly to introduce the bill to change the social security system, which aims to be more supportive to people, young people especially, and people who go into disability and we want to stay at a job market. At present, we have 2.9 billion in our present year. Expecting to present a bill to set aside money, the main points will be to reduce the damage and increase the motivation to get a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u192	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The highest. Ministers confirm that, in addition to the 2.9 billion for disposal, and were affected from the original purpose, are there a provision this year and that these 4 billion will not be reduced in the government's efforts to make ends meet? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: When do disability reforms, as planned for the past few years, and it was promised to be effective on April 1, but has not been done? Is it not clear that money must be added in order to increase pensions in agreement with newly established collective agreements, the so - called biographies agreements that seem to involve only part of the population? A team on a new microenergy system produced the task but failed to meet. Is it not clear that efforts to strengthen the entire system around the energy assessment need to be done? A labour agency? [[The president calls.]] Is it begun, and if not, when will it begin, and how will this work be done, and when is it estimated that it will end? [[The president calls.]] I wish for the highest. The minister's response is clear and clear. [[The president calls.]] I think he owes it to micro-piercers at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u193	A respectable president. It is clear that there are 2.9 billion for this year's provision. It's in a bill that we hope will be able to supply in the days ahead. I realize there's a short time left for the council, but hopefully we'll make it a success to take care of it. The next year's budget is expected to contain 4 billion. There is no plan to reduce the budget, they are expected in a financial programme, and the Ministry has been working on it. That was a lot of questions. With regard to the biographer contract and when to ensure increases to micro-energy pensioners and that there are no biographies, there are a number of aspects of the Government's biographies that are subject to all social groups and the lowest groups in particular, to form a tax system change. I recently met with the Microcolleague Act, which specifically stated that there were changes, tax reforms, which would be useful to their group, changes in housing, etc., so it will be useful to most people. Then, through the infrastructure, when you are involved in the induction of a working performance assessment. [[The president calls.]] Yes, we need change, and we need changes in the workforce as a whole. That work is started, but it will not be completed in one week or one day. [[The president calls.]] It takes a great change of mind that takes a long time to enter, and it is extremely important that it be done in good consultation with most people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u194	A respectable president. It's like the highest. A minister may know that I do a financial thing sometimes. One thing I saw in the news was that I had to put too much stress in the hospital. A prior financial program describes the percentage of patients in emergency departments to be treated at other health care facilities. But there is no part of this financial program, and there are no other goals actually set out. This financial program provides 18 suggestions on how to attract more nurses. Nine recommendations should be made in a healthcare facility. These suggestions must be followed and considered how to achieve them. I search the goals and the scales, but I don't do that. I don't see anything about the cost, either, despite the fact that the list of specific actions is on the list of actions. In view of everything, as indicated by the assessment of the surgeon's office in the emergency department, certain points are lacking. The problem lies in the service of patients waiting for admission because there has been a need to close because of the lack of nurses and because of patients who have completed treatment at the hospital but cannot graduate because of the lack of resources outside them, just because they also needed nurses. After all, it's the man's problem. The diagnosis of him is that it is a designer of gender pay due to a formality, out of an unfair period of work, and, after all, an unfair choice. However, a 0.5% financial growth is expected. So I wonder about it and I ask the highest. Minister: Where is the money in this case? Because government policy is to be evaluated in a financial program. What's her cost? I can't find that in the budget. If there is no financial cost, this will probably not cost anything or that pay will not be raised, which is the reason for the man - made problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u195	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator debates interest in financial programs, that it reflects a real plan, and that it interacts with policy groups in each category. We have come to appreciate the first few years of our use of this tool that it develops with each passing year, and it's always getting better, if we can say so. But it has not become perfect and vehement. An elder mentions a standard that may not be the best standard for reflecting progress or a real goal for us to be doing better from year to year. So I think we need to, in cooperation with the budget board and the finance Department, continue to develop this tool. Hv. A senator cites the suggestions for a nurse's working environment. To answer, nine of these 18 measures were specifically marked, as shown in the case at any time. Senator. As a result, I wished for them to be planned for a special Ministerial Conference on conformity and considered specifically. The conclusion at that meeting was, this was the end of January if I recall correctly, that I was asked to contact all medical institutions and to ask for the assessment of each institution as a possibility of implementing these proposals and considering what was left over, including: The cost is at hand. Now I'm getting these answers, and I'm going to share my impatience with you. Senator, I'd like this to go a lot faster. But there we are talking about the part that targets other aspects of the work environment but directly the elements of the agreement committee and the nurses. I hope that I can discuss the matter in detail with urgency. A senator when I have received answers from all institutions, but I was told that they were all in the house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u196	A respectable president. I have to disagree with the highest. Minister. I think financial plans are worse if something is. It's getting closer to more of the budget they were. We fall back and forth, because that's the way it's always been done, and that's how we keep doing it. That's what's at the top. According to a minister, there is actually an inexpensive operation, there is a lack of money in this financial program already being set up on costs, and yet we are about to issue a financial program on the framework on which money is to be built. Where should the money go for them if they are not expected in a financial programme? My vision of a financial program as it is that politics puts forward its course to the next five years. The policy is not about to change anything in particular, what's changing is the plan on how much it costs. Of course, the cost of these financial measures should be expected even if that budget is relatively inaccurate. [[The president calls.]] It could turn into the next financial program, etc, just as long as the numbers are there, as inaccurate as they could be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u197	A respectable president. In this respect, I'd like to say that life is only more complicated than that, so we're going through one financial program together. There are other factors we need to clean up. For example, the need to contribute has been discussed in the light of changed presensions, new financial policies. Then we have a new foundation. A strategy has taken place in all resources, and the Ministry of Health has set up policies on health care. It's now at the finish line here for release from the Council. As a result, I will provide a health - care programme for five years. She rhymes most of her financial plans, and she is to do so fully over time. But while we're mastering the tools we have in front of us and while we have, fortunately, a government that sits long enough to keep its grip on the process, hopefully we'll see to ourselves a country in that this policy unites all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u198	A respectable president. For example, I've previously said in this hall that for this government business there has been established for large financial expenses and, in fact, some form of common design for these three groups to some Icelandic record in the expansion of the state funds in such a short time. Today, however, the government is in a number of problems, for traditional, fairly smooth economic adjustment presents a real challenge when it comes to an increase in expenses. At once, the government has decided to submit a review of its financial policy in order not to have to strike anywhere. This brings to mind the state's status in the financial state. The contribution of financial programmes here in the winter showed that no consultation was made with the rural communities, no agreement was made with the rural communities on the burden it laid on the rural communities. The allowances in the equation were frozen. In spite of obvious evidence of cooling in the economy and actually, in order to crown all of this together, the government put considerable burden on rural society in agreements without having any particular consultation with the same rural communities on that or the expense. So both the government reduced their contributions to the rural community, imposed greater demand for change, and additional expenses for rural society. Now that the government is going to revise financial policy, our mind must go to the local communities and not be a new opportunity now when it is being put to work again to make a deal with the local communities on their part in the matter and make sure that they handle the tasks entrusted to them in these matters. That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Will agreements with rural communities be established when a new financial policy is submitted within a few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u199	A respectable president. First, I'd like to mention that. This is where a senator made a budget increase in the last few years, which has been completely self-sustained. In recent years, we have provided a record of a number of hundreds of billions of dollars, especially when treated with irregular teams. The currency side, which has been somewhat stable, so I don't know that at the expense gate - even though significantly increased in many places, the need for and called for in elections - has been turned into something worthless. I don't see that there's anything else going on but that we get normal landings even though there's a tremendous change in economic forecasts at a short time, i.e. We're going from predicting a fairly reasonable interest rate, more than 2%, later down to 1.7, 1.8, and now a recession of 0.2, that the budget can be balanced. This is important to me. Regarding the conversation with rural society, it is unfortunate that it has not been formally completed. It's always worked out so far. We will stress the effort to negotiate with our communities, but there is a short course and a question as to whether it will simply not be tried to complete it before the council completes the financial programme. I would hope that it could succeed. It's about a relatively few things to negotiate, and the situation of the last year's rural society seems to me, when it comes to reimbursement, to have been worse than we anticipated. They had an average, and in general, they had a bad side because we were hoping that their financial balance would be balanced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u200	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. For negotiations, we usually need to talk. According to my sources, we're not talking at all. There is no discussion with the rural communities, or they are returned to the table after it actually failed, again because of a total lack, complete incoherentness, in leading up to the financial program set down at the end of March. Well, I hope to the highest. Ministers board up sleeves and bid their communities a meeting. It is obvious that the collective agreements here were made with greater weight on the rurals, which have considerable numbers of low-payers on their payroll, than on the state fund itself. As a result, stress demand for improved supply and freezing of donations to the rural community is very strange. Actually, the government is in some way financing its spending pleasure by starving the rural communities in the country. Of course, it is totally unacceptable and unacceptable that the government plans to address the problem at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u201	A respectable president. I don't see how people come to the conclusion that government funds are funding their expenses by burdening their rural communities. While economic growth was high, we have been making a requirement for a contribution to the public, and this has done quite well in the earlier agreements made and more than once. This time, we simply didn't have time to complete a conversation with our communities. We're playing this idea. We concluded that her implementation depended on an agreement. After a new economic forecast, we've been struggling to recalculate the basics of the income and pay-side and to look across the stage for the public as a whole. It's really not until we see out ahead of them what we have the premise to sit down with our rural communities. But I've already requested that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u202	President. It's a shame to get to the top. The minister of finance is the running out, for it seems that I was thinking about this very talk, as I had proclaimed, about the surprise of the Norwegian Congress as the highest court. The minister didn't seem to know anything from here. He wondered, " Might it be that the Norwegians had a different kind of warning than the Icelandic government because Norway was already connected with the European Union's common electricity market? ' When I pointed out that in spite of that, the Norwegians also felt that they had to have such a warning about a new cable seemed to be the highest. A minister misunderstandings this, believing that the captain of the Norwegian people was somehow equivalent to the U.S. government speculation of a report that they prefer to call a warning. Even though Norway is connected to the joint electrical systems of Europe, the North feel that it is necessary to provide legal warnings on additional access to the market. The more striking is that this one point the Icelandic government has spoken of as warning, without properly pointing them out, is that the Norwegians also have to face legal matters. In view of the highest. The secretary of finance, as well as some others, may seem to have missed my previous speech on the National Preservation, is likely to be the best time to start with the first warning so that they can get the overall connection between what the Norwegian Council approved and members of Congress had demanded, they should be able to provide the third energy package. The first guard says that all water control is on the hands of the state and rural society. Why does the Norwegian Parliament specifically mention this if a third energy package is about anything but a possible connection and has no effect on connection? Yes, because energy package is at least responsible for the combined European Energy Agency. In other words, in this case, the Norwegians want to receive an exception from the fact that ACER is advised by the Norwegian energy sector, in this case, whether it's direct or through ESAs that would not matter everything in this context, the ESA's role is to enforce ACER's will or to receive subtract from the ACER on how things should be adjusted. The Norwegian Parliament makes it clear that it really wants an exception from this important point of the third energy package. According to the government's so - called warnings, there has been no such thing. Why not? Why do you not look to this example from Norway or the other warnings that I plan to trace from the following? It has to be emphasized that in spite of the wishes of the Norwegian Parliament, their warnings have not been valid yet, but, 14 months later, the evidence from the European Union is about to take any note of this. The relationship has never done anything on one-sided notice, or one-sided announcement of enforestation, not even when you do it as legally as in Norway, let alone when it is some kind of a declaration of will, as the Icelandic government is going on. However, there is another reason why the general possession of Norwegian water resources should be available and at least two-thirds should be owned by public members. There's a warning, there's a waiver, about holding, which is very interesting in the light of the discussion here, where it has been claimed that this is not really going to have any effect on property. The Norwegian Parliament considered a special legal point to be made. My time is running short, a respectable president, but I'm just about to get started on this subject and ask the president to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u203	President. I'm asking why. A senator whether he had experienced any comment or examination of the Norwegian warning. The Senator first noted that Norway has not yet been led by law and second, that the European Union has not responded to Norwegian wishes or ideas on this warning. Of course, it is so interesting to see that none of the council members seem to worry that the fourth energy package, apparently, is in the house. I think I've seen the Internet, about the time I stood up here, a news from the European Union that all eight types of energy were being reviewed and agreed to put them away. Last night I thought four were left, but it's been arranged if I've been on the right page there. I'm also going to quote the findings of the Industrial Association on a pack of three energy. They do not make a lot of energy out of a pack of three. You can read through the opinion and reputation of others that it is simply a matter of more markets and continued markets for energy. It is a little special to see how a certain government class is involved. The other is that this fourth energy package seems to have given the organization a fine presentation. Is there not every reason to look at the third and fourth energy package as a unit and wonder if we need permanent warning on the way the Norwegians have requested, but do they have permanent access to the energy package as such? Don't you need to look at the whole case where we have the opportunity to look overall and see how the 3rd and 4th energy package combined is affected?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u204	President. With regard to the first point, it is surprising that the Icelandic government does not seem to be aware of how this case went in Norway and Norwegian warnings. Actually, we haven't had a chance to ask the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs because he's lost but the highest. The secretary of finance did not seem to recognize that matter. In fact, it is incomprehensible when it comes to such a big matter, a case that has been tried to figure out how they can come through the council, that they should not even look at the method tried to be used in Norway and bring in a much weaker way here. Yet, that Norwegian did not work. Then, the second thing to do. A senator mentioned, the fourth energy package. He tells me, that just in this case, people have just finished the fourth energy package, which we have not received a single presentation at the General Assembly. At the same time, the government expects us to produce the third energy package with the argument that it is inevitable a continuation of the first and others who also tell us that with the same logic we will be expected to produce, swallow the raw, fourth energy package as a consequence of bringing in the third. This will show us beyond any doubt that we really need it. A senator asks about, to get a reserve from the third pack of energy to not sink deeper into the swamp, so to speak, to avoid the fact that the government will hit after the third energy package on the table and say, "We created the third, we have to do so well, and we'll have to implement the fourth that leads from the third. It must be the only thing we know to wait on the third energy package until we figure out the connection to the fourth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u205	President. Now it seems so pleasant that both in the hall and around here are some of the followers of this third pack of energy. Now it is a question of challengeing others to inform us whether they have received the fourth energy package is that they are not worried about taking the step of using it all on a single board - it is actually seen under the feet of a few. But I would like to ask. A senator into this Norwegian warning, which he rightly crosses here. It says that the water resources are controlled by national and social systems. As far as we know, this has not yet been passed on to law in Norway. As far as we know, the European Union has not really answered or the Norwegians have been told if it is possible to adapt, if I may say so, or render this advance. Is there anything that the senator can tell us about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u206	Madam President. This is one of the things you would have thought the Icelandic government would have sought to inform before forcing the third energy package through the council. Sadly, I have not yet received answers to the question. A senator asks me about it. We can't ask the highest. Minister of state to which no one can be found in this discussion. Therefore, we must ask that the council be informed what will be the fate of these efforts by the Norwegian Council before it completes the third energy package. However, in this regard it is proper to assume that this is true in Norway, although reactions are not derived from the European Union. September 23rd. will address if the third energy package is working against the Norwegian constitution. Wouldn't it be wise to wait for that conclusion, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u207	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on five o'clock notice of the eight whom he had come to pass, which the Norwegian Parliament put with them, 14 months later. It says a loose translation, not from a legal translator, so people have to respect it to a compassionate person, by permission of a president: ▪ The decision of a new foreign sea cable must still be a representative of the Norwegian authorities. [[Up front.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u208	Experience with two cables.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u209	Yes, exactly. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - That was a loose translation. Why does it keep you small? A member of Congress believes that it is necessary to give special legal warnings as such, although there is still no way to determine if there is any intervention, now that Norway has been linked to the co - European system for some time, and that there should be a knowledge of the arrangement? Could it be because of the experience of the Norwegians that the European Union's greed progressively grows as a result of controlling these objects and seeing them and realizing that the ACER role they feel is to protect themselves from losing control of things and the special operation that has already been linked to a number of years of time? [[The president calls.]] What message does it read? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u210	Madam President. Hv. A senator enters a point I was seeking to explain to the highest level. Secretary of the budget, anti-Semitic and Supreme Minister. Minister seemed to be completely mistaken. In fact, I tried to point out the fact that even though Norway is already connected with this common European electricity market, the Norwegian feel that they need a special legal advance to prevent the European Union from simply deciding to add a connection. It is a country that is already linked but not, as in Iceland, a country that would then become a new market, and therefore should be more powerful reasons and incentives for the European Union to connect. Even a country already connected, they feel that they need annuity to avoid being involved in adding connections to the European Union. This premonition of the Norwegian must be a warning to us, for the purpose of this third energy package is most important, and especially to restore new relationships. There's obviously a concern that Norway is so excited about linking people with the fact that they even need to be given the exception to prevent a growing link while linking with Iceland is one of these priorities that can possibly have economic support from the European Union and monitoring on the part of the ACER, whether it was direct surveillance or between ESAs, which is really the exact same thing and hardly fit into the two supporting systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer was Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Hv. A candidate in his talk agreed on that of September 23, U.S.A. will be taken into account by the European Court of Justice in Norway whether the Constitution and its implementation will be carried out by the Norwegian Constitution. I'd like to have a little bit of that, if you don't mind. A senator will determine whether he has taken note of a statement by the Supreme Court. Ministers, Þórdís Reykfjörð brown, the smokefjord of Gylfadóttir, in the morning of November 16, 2018, where it seems to have no limit on postponing the case, the induction of the so - called third energy pack, to the fall of 2020. This appears to be a response to a statement at the highest level. Minister of State, the previous day in the Morning Press, the issue of postponing the energy package until spring is small. Would it not be wise for us to take this matter a little slower, wait, and see what the outcome will be for the Norwegian Court on September 23 and then return to the Council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u212	Madam President. It turns out that the only thing knowing would have been to wait on the matter. The strange thing is, despite that statement, the highest. A minister who was fired earlier should have decided to try to drive it through the council now, when we are not, as it were. A senator mentioned, based on the findings of the Norwegian Court of Justice, when we have not received any introduction to the fourth energy package, which is being completed according to the latest reports in the European Union and directly related to the third and when no answers have been received to Norway as to whether or not something will be done with their one - side notice and that they have not yet completed their legalization, they still answer Brussels. Iceland and I cannot be accused of delaying the matter if we are waiting for the information we need in order to make a complete evaluation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u213	A respectable president. Over the years, I have listened to why very often. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and at times he would not agree. I remember that he said that the government of government had become too great and ruling in other society and that it was taking place on the political responsibility of democratic elected agents, and it can be accepted in itself. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is not a bit unusual now to demand that the matter be returned to officials after one of the greatest discussions of the council, the democratic coverage of the council. The matter was handled well at the moment. State Department and for what? The job committee, it's been a detailed subject, an autopsy, and all the questions have been answered. I criticized the government for taking a year to review the case. I felt that she was dragging things around for way too long. But all right, she went in there to win the case better so that we, democratic elected agents, could actually take a stand on this matter. So I ask, "Doesn't it make any sense? " The senator, in order to promote the democratic elected representatives and contribute to the political responsibility - in the end, we will vote for our own conviction and conscience - that we will resolve the matter here instead of sending it to the joint EEA Commission, the Commission, who has received the case once and went over it? Shall we send it back to the officials instead of giving the democratic elected members of the council, the council members of the oldest Congress in the world, a chance to vote on the matter? In my opinion, it's not a case between government and opposition. Here are 50 senators who are prepared to vote on the matter, follow political convictions, try to live up to their political responsibility. Is it not more honest to give us the opportunity to do so rather than make the matter a success? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u214	Madam President. First of all, I want to thank you. A senator for accepting my concern for the growth and control of the system at the expense of democratic elected agents. I can't think of calling him what's-her-name. In spite of this, a senator's opinion is a popu list. But as for the release of this case, I certainly do not agree with it. In view of the fact that what came out of this preparatory work of the government was - what? Some supposed premonitions in which there is no restraint, praiseworthy deceptions to be quoted in the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son. It is the product, a warning to home bridge, with the goal of getting senators to just say yes and not be asking actual criticism questions, such as me and the media have been seeking to do here during the discussion. You see, I'm not quite sure that's the right thing to do. A senator that, according to his conscience, everyone will vote for this matter according to the previous statements made by many members of the Parliament on this matter. Actually, I'm completely convinced that what I'm saying is what I'm doing. The senator will vote for this matter according to his own convictions, and of course this good one may go. A senator's opinion is that, but it doesn't change the fact that we need to, before we produce it all in Icelandic law, to determine if this will last for a real constitution, and whether it is meant to weaken a significant Icelandic interest in one of the nation's most fundamental interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u215	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's sincere answer, nuclear as his hope and direction. When I listened to it, he felt, however, that it was better to put the matter in the hands of officials than to trust our elected representatives. Then I ask: Do we want to promote democratically elected representatives, political powers, depending on whether it is suitable for a member of the council, his party, or anyone else at one time? This brings us to the top of the ice if we just want to underline and support the Senate when it returns correctly and is suitable for the way the winds blow. I don't think it's the right approach. I think we should have a prince's finger. Let's promote a democratic council member, further the council, let's promote ourselves as being in politics, but let's not leave all cases in the hands of government officials, as I feel a decree. A senator's stay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope he still supports the rights of our senators to vote for a language that is read and worked very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u216	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u217	Madam President. I don't know what it's like. A senator gets it that I want to hand the case over to officials. Then you may need to state that I am not opposed to the existence of officials. They play an important role in the democratic arrangement, but they are democratic elected agents who are to be hired, and therefore democratic elected agents are to do what is wise now and to delegate the case again to the joint EES committee with the aim of obtaining enforcation, a release by some means, instead of leaving it in the hands of government officials in the European Union, to interpret the actual defenses of the Iceland, if any. We're supposed to use the government system, but it's supposed to be controlled by democratic elected representatives to reach the correct democratic conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u218	President. What I'm looking at is information I just found on the Internet. It shows that the European Union has completed a four so-called energy package, and I welcome it, of course, very much. We have been told that a four - pack of energy has been exposed for some time in this country and has been monitored since 2016. However, it is interesting to wonder what I shall see later this afternoon when I can read through what just came in and was running out of the European Union. It is, in fact, there. According to this fourth energy package, the role of this so-called ACER facility is being enhanced. You wonder, " Is it wrong for the followers of this energy package to come in a speech chair to inform us of what is in this pack of four, which they consider so clever? ' He's a straight continuation of the third. I encourage members of the council who have expressed themselves in magazines and perhaps elsewhere but here in the hearing on this energy package and how crazy we are here to be against this coming up and answering the questions we have raised. I ask the administrative part and other followers of this matter: Have they received an introduction to the fourth energy package that has formally seen the day? I'm not expecting any answers to this, but I will keep calling for them. Of course, the case we're dealing with here today is a huge thing, primarily to my knowledge that we're taking yet another step in sync with or adapting to the European energy market. Some years ago, we may have made the mistake of starting this induction and road trip. But it's not too late to realize things and say, "Hey, that's good, we can't take the next step. The three energy pack is clearly a step toward the developing of this energy package, which the European Union considers to be so important. I believe it is important that the discussion on this case be delayed, so that the followers of the energy package have not received an introduction to the fourth energy package because if they take the step of accepting this proposal by the State Minister, these fine senators are saying that we will contribute to the introduction of the four energy package. I have no reason to believe that those who are in agreement with this now and who do not want to use the legal rights we have to refer to the joint EEA committee will have the courage to do so once and if anything in the fourth energy package is needed. But this is the case with these senators. We cannot force them to examine the fourth energy package or what is waiting for. Still, it can be expected to be done in view of the greatness of the donkey. If these fine senators are not at this point prepared to refer the case to this legal course according to the EEA Convention, the spare route remains and is simply to postpone the case and cover the overall picture of a pack of three or four for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u219	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. I'd like to make up the subject of a comment that happened to be the least of the council hall ever. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, the president of Reunion, made a comment on this matter and that there was no opportunity to vote on it. She clearly believes that there are only 50 here who want to accept this case, so grudgingly ill as it has been prepared with a wide range of unsatisfactory coverage in committees, on the contrary to what has been said, also in magazine articles. There's a lot to go on about this. There is no natural diagnosis of the legal premise to address the case. There is no analysis of what lies ahead of the corner and the fourth energy package and evaluate this third energy package in relation to it. There is a lack of appreciation for the experience of Norwegians of the eight decisions used by the Workmen in that country. It seemed like we could understand why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir to play together because a political decision should be made here at the General and then the case to be referred to by the officials of Brussels in the joint EEA committee. It is precisely the decision to hide those officials who work there, on the basis of political attitudes, on the basis of political decision, the way to handle the situation, exactly by seeking that the types of energy that are not relevant here because we are not connected to the European energy system, are cut out of this package for our benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u220	President. It's no surprise that one of the presidents of all group members is talking like this. However, it is a big misunderstanding that officials use such authority; they simply follow the spirit that the politicians offer and give to them. That is their job, and that is how they should work. I think they do, too, most of them. My experience with them is that they're tough people who always try to make their way back. On the other hand, officials need clear guidance and if the guidance is given from politicians, as it were. It seems that the head of the Revolution is: You are making a decision, dear officials, or you are to be responsible, to decide whether we're going this way or not, is it not wrong for us, and then it's such a political party that's unnecessary? In fact, I don't think it's an unnecessary group. It's enough to have one group of members at the council. However, it is important that we who still believe that politicians have a policy to guide and follow it will keep the message clear. It's always the best part. In this matter, it is known, first of all, that it can be referred back to the joint EEA committee which is the legal and only right and will be given the full extension. It's been rejected so far, and we have to realize that there's been a lot of debate about the matter in New York. If more than 60% of the people are opposed to the inclusion of the energy package, you should stop and give them arguments, including: Into the joint of the EEA committee and say, "Hey, the politics in Iceland say it's not possible to do this in this way. We need the extras we've been asking for. If a person does not want to follow that direction, the matter must be delayed, tried to clarify it more fully, to gain more support and reconciliation with it among members of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u221	Madam President. I believe that this is exactly what we're doing here, that officials who work for Iceland in Brussels, who are running our business there in the field of the EEA joint committee, will be assigned to interview the Committee on the basis of the agreement itself, including. discusses the treatment of reconciliation. This, of course, strengthens the fact that there is a joint statement by the European Energy Miguels, the lieutenant referred to on the other hand, and then there is a joint statement made by the EFTA states submitted to the common board on May 8 of May. It strengthens the situation and makes it more likely and more effective than it might. in the early stages of this declaration. Therefore, it should be safe to go this way, and as a result, it is not very rewarding for the statements made here, they are illogical, and none of them have had the slightest support in discussions, that our search on this sort, in the field of the Common EEA Committee, would put our involvement in the European Economic Area in some kind of upset. Then people can stay awake to write local letters and publish in the newspapers of the country that we want to stay open, free and international - like it's underneath. Iceland and I are participants, and even the founders of important international institutions, and the Icelandic nation has a clear understanding of the importance of free business. It's just that the question is not in this matter whether we're free, open, and international society, as it is said - we are - but simply whether we're going to take care of the nation's interests in energy, in terms of our children, grandchildren, and future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u222	President. Of course, when you see writing or speeches being held, it grieves you to say that people are somehow changing from the community movie we have built in Iceland for us to be a free and open society. We invite people to work with us and to be with us, and we want to share in international activities. As an island in the middle of the Atlantic, we depend on international cooperation. I don't know one senator who wants to quit or report such cooperation. We can, however, have opinions about how it looks, how it works, and what we want to agree with it. I think the question that we have on our table right now is: Do we want to put one of our core leaders that we can live here as a sovereign and a free state on the table and/or point it to some other sources, i.e. energy, because we can own, create, take care, affordable and use the resources we have in Iceland? The riches of each Kingdom are one of the most important things in the world. I've come to a country where there are no natural resources. That land, however, is the foremost thing in the world when it comes to technology and such developments. There, the individual government and the nation themselves view themselves as the resource. Education and development in technology are the resource. In that country, the advantage is being defended. Here we need to protect our electricity in the same way that we should, of course, do it with our mouth and mouth. We are not to take this step now because it has nothing to do with a sovereign and free kingdom. [[The president calls.]] It simply has to do with the very foundation of living here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u223	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson very much for his speech. He hit a few things. First, though, I would like to mention the discussion earlier that we did not take advantage of our political position. Instead, we were suddenly going to say that government officials should control it. That's not exactly what we're doing. We are saying that we now want to make the political decision to send a pack of three energy back to the joint EEA committee to take the position that may arise, which we even know will come up. It will never be said often enough that the second person in September 23 will be presented with a political court in Norway case against the state where it is believed that his legal way has not been carried out. There's something else I cut by. Hv. A senator spoke of a four - pack energy pack. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether there's something in him as a boy. A senator has seen something that might help us. We now know that in a pack of three energy, energy is being considered primarily for the market and that it is a product. It also refers to our energy resources as products. I wondered what's going on with this fourth package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u224	President. You see, that's a good question; what's up with this fourth energy package? It seems that most people other than members of the Parliament have received some news or explanation and a presentation of what is contained in this fourth energy package. The European Union website has a new announcement dealing with the fourth energy package. It is, in fact, there. discussed changes to the ACER Institute. What's next? Of course, this is not exactly done there, but it is reported that these institutions are being changed or added and that their sources are being explained. I think that's a big responsibility for those who are involved in implementing the energy package now to stop and really accept what is at its height. Industrial, innovation, tourism, and now Justice Minister said that it would probably be best to postpone this to fall because it would give scholars and us and others the opportunity to dig into how a pack of three and four are intertwined. Because this is not the way three energy packs are going to go independent without our looking to that fourth, any more than we had to look at a pack of two energy when working with three. That's even. published in this European Union that the ACER Institute had been set up with the third energy package. As a result, this connection is so obvious that when it comes to changing energy markets, changing this agency, changing Europe's energy agenda, which we are about to introduce here, the will of the greater part of the world will become reality, it is necessary to know what more is involved in these issues together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u225	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for the answer. It's amazing to hear that this has just been done and that there are changes in ACER. I'd love to, like so many others in here, know what that change is. That leads me to the next question. We're now in a position to vote for a pack of three energy if everything depends on what the management parties want and even more. Then I wonder, can we really be voting on a pack of three? Can we make an informed decision when we have not seen a pack of four? I've already listened to it. One senator says that there may have been some mistake during the induction of a pack of energy one and a pack of two energy. But I also feel that I have heard that these packages have not necessarily been offered much time at a council meeting. I'd like to have a quick explanation as to whether the council had access at that point, but at least in particular, if we can make an informed decision and vote on a pack of three when we have not seen what is contained in a pack of four energy and then even a pack of five.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u226	President. I don't think it's right to finish this case in the way that it wants to exist here, as it looks. First, it is that mine does not know clearly that the ocean is over all governmental doubt that we can do so in this way. I'm worried that we'll take another step into the European energy market by bringing in these directives. We're initiating ideologies. We are implementing the tools and we are here to implement the targets of EU energy policy. In addition, it is clear that the four energy package is directly extensioned by this third energy package and it is fully explained that it contains materials that take into account and continues to develop what is listed in the third energy pack. Therefore, we must call for a gathering of these things, to be watched by the entire group on the scene so that decisions can be made based on them. Whether you call the simulated joke that we've been talking about, eating all this sausage in little bites, that so-called sauna bitch, or whether it's being given us by spoon, like a dog. Sæmundsson It's important for us to see if the sauna is damaged at the end. We cannot continue taking bites and bites indefinitely if we do not see the overall picture. In this regard, I am trying to appeal to the fine members of the council who want to support this matter. But I don't think it got into what the consequences of finishing it now have been to this point. I think it's very important to try to get people to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u227	Madam President. I'm going to continue to study in an interesting article. I did so under the morning year of my speech, which I gave before this last talk, by Professor Stefán Ólafsson of the University of Iceland, which is entitled: Insane development from EU energy bags to HD Energy. This is a very interesting article, Madam President. Stefán Ólafsson is well - known for sending away upbuilding and well - meaning social criticism in various areas. This is where he's talking about the energy package, one, two and three. He mentioned in this article, with the permission of a president: ▪ During a discussion on a pack of three energy, it is often said that it is of little importance while a string is not laid for energy exports from Iceland to Europe. This is what the government has claimed, and the government has claimed, it doesn't matter, i.e. The internalisation of a pack of three energy, because there is no sea cable, we are not connected to this system. Nevertheless, the government groups stress that we accept this energy package, which is a simple paradox in the case. But Stefán Ólafsson believes that this is a false statement, and he also says, by permission of a president: The three Orku package is part of the longer-term development of the energy policy order, mainly aimed at increasing market areas and the privatization of public energy companies. This involves the promotion of competition as the sponsor of the position of households and businesses, which should be shown in a better and inexpensive service. However, this EU policy is surmounted by the fact that, in particular, it is an artificial competition, which will yield little gain to consumers. The most likely consequences of growth in public energy are in this country. It's, like, a... Just like that. paritaprevir In an article published in the Morning newspaper yesterday, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter has said, and she has the same path. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said the same thing in a newspaper article, that the benefits of the energy package are consumer protection and lower energy prices. However, we have done this in our discussions, and it would be good to have a place to say. Councilmen in this regard, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Árnason Arnam. But further on, Stefán Ólafsson, by permission of the president, says in his article: A good chance is hidden in this policy for private investors who will be given the opportunity to gain a share in public energy resources. When the EU Directive on the new energy system from 1997 was introduced into Iceland's law by electricity law in 2003, the majority of the representatives of the nation's electronic energy companies were opposed. The main evidence against this change was that the synergistic effect would be lost, including with a double overgrowth of energy companies, resulting in increased costs and higher prices for users of energy. Madam President. This is exactly what happened, e.g. from the Southern heat plant, when a company was divided into HS Power and HS hosts, it resulted in an increase in energy prices to consumers, which cost a considerable amount of money to the exchange of companies, which then went directly into the prices. Then, in the following article, we Stefán: The first sign of the New Order here was found in the requirements for exchange of public energy sources (e.g. It's the Southnesy and Encosystem of Reykjavík. Most prominent at first was the dissociation of Southneslation in HS Power and HS hosts. I see, Madam President, that my time is almost over, and I'm going to ask them to be put back on the rosary so that I can continue to study this article, which is an important and important article and worthy to be discussed in this context, because it truly relates to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u228	Madam President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The book of Þórarinsson's son shows that reading articles in the magazines of the people of the land is very revealing. How dignified it is when members of the Parliament preparing to support this very difficult and tricky matter explain their stand on the pages of the magazine! I also agree. A senator said that they were very desirable and desirable to be the same. The members of Parliament offered an opportunity for a conversation in a council hall on their subject. There are two fine articles that have appeared over the past few days, paragraph 12. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, our good council president here in the face, yesterday in the Morning Press and in the paper. paritaprevir It's for Dr. Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason in the News magazine today. These articles have similar features, and I will allow myself to mention perhaps two, three points. A lot of emphasis is placed on consumer protection. I had a chance to do so in either committee that has been discussed, I can't remember whether it was in the Foreign Affairs Committee where I've attended a few meetings or on a job committee where I have fixed seats, where I've taken a student by name what it would be about consumer protection, and I found the answers that it was mostly a lack in the category that there was a higher issue of some committee that is active in this field. Then there are claims of, or at least a word in which the price of electricity may be lower. It naturally violates most accepted views in this matter. [[The president calls.]] But I may have an opportunity to discuss this in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u229	Madam President. Thank you. It's a very good answer to a senator who just introduced him to consumer protection. This has been the most important but interesting way that the members of the government, especially members of the Independence Party, have held. Residents have completely hidden themselves under blankets during the discussion, and this raises questions naturally. Hv. A senator and chairman of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, has also spoken for this, i.e. The consumer protection and exchange of energy dealers. As a result, more people have spoken, such as the current Speaker, why. paritaprevir In her article in the Morning newspaper yesterday, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, mentioned why. paritaprevir In his own article, Vilhjálmur Árnason. In fact, it is quite interesting to read these articles because the wording is very similar. You wonder if they compared their books before writing them. But that may be another story. It should be kept in mind, especially with consumer protection, that studies have been made on how many homes are taking advantage of changing energy sales in the country. There are 0.3% of homes in the country, that tell the whole story. There are 370 homes of 140,000 homes, which just say exactly what's in it, that the benefits of changing energy sales are zero. This is now all the consumer protection, and paradoxs are in the case of government officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u230	Madam President. It always strengthens the tone of speech when it is possible to knock off things like this. Hv. A senator is talking about a number of homes that have changed the power company, such as a bank or insurance company, but when the senator has come up with the figure 0.3%, there is another way to say it, it's 3◯, so there may not be much to do about it. However, there has been no evidence that there is a lack of consumer protection in these areas, and much less has been said that we need to give up custody, at least. To some extent, as is attributed to the series of members of the Friðrik River and Stefán Már, custody of the nation's plans, plans and use of energy resources. I don't feel that making such a dramatic decision has been shown that consumer protection has been a factor in the lack of any significant degree. The lower price reported there is hardly an opinion in view that the EEA Convention aims to be a market agreement and the password is a monotonous, very important word in this contract. Compatibility means that the relatively low price in this country, many of which are jealous, is likely to increase in harmony with what goes and happens. Of course, the statements in newspaper articles, as good as they may be and careful about the opposite, cannot be resisted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u231	Madam President. Yes, of course it is a serious thing when members of the Parliament say that electrical prices have fallen by the induction of a energy package one and two, and continued induction will result in the translation of continued reductions in electricity prices. These are statements that we have completely lost in our speech. I've pointed it out more than once from a plow and showed examples and accounts about it. The newspaper presented an article on this in 2005 about an increase in electricity prices throughout the country and to companies and a home for the induction of a energy package alone in changing the energy laws 2003. I've already shown a change in the Southnesian access site, increases ranging from 743/496% to electrically fueled households during the induction of energy packages alone and two. The reasons were and are that these so - called special agreements, both to enterprises and to households, were canceled because it was prohibited under this EU electricity directive. But the point is: It is a responsibility to say so. When I explained this to the first one. The point is that I was called out of the hall and that I was wrong. Then these members of the same body of members of our council accuse us of making false accusations. This is a serious matter in the entire discussion because this is the key to the public in the country, i.e. Electric pay to the homes and then to the companies in the country. This is what the common people understand. [[The president calls.]] If electricity rises, you will see no reason to accept these commands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u232	Madam President. I went that way. some night over the nation's activation history, endeavoring to demonstrate a link to building history in other areas of society. There I referred to the country's work structure and the fact that the entire republicary story has been the closest situation in the world, and we only had to deal with unemployment for a short time during this period of time. I also referred to progress that had remained in the construction of the electrical energy system, which particularly refers to technological advances that have occurred during this time and the fact that the entire republic has been very close to all technological innovations in most areas. That this is a simple coincidence, Mrs. President, I don't think it's a perfectly correct view of the situation, but rather that each of the other in this material and that the building of the activation and distribution system together with the big structures that have been built at the same time caused the career to have been a great support for how long we've put ourselves in the electronics. Then there is the link that these improvements and development have been linked to urban development, and so I can say that by this structure governments, in effect, have carried out a more effective policy than we have had, with all the unsatisfactory applications of the job sectors that were supposed to raise professional life in the country's settlements but that could hardly survive the week of old, to history, and endeavor to learn from it in order to make as well-developed decisions as possible for the future generations, and to try to shut down the possibilities of the country that will take care of our country. Madam President. That is why it is so important that, as we are here, large and dramatic matters get as much discussion as can be considered and that I refer to the EU third energy directive. Surely, we should not hesitate to take the discussion further if the people have not been persuaded to do the divine will. However, that is exactly what governments and their entitleees are doing in this matter, saying that the matter is resolved, and that we ignore all indications that specific things need to be examined. I am here merely asking our questions about the legal warning that was said to be safe to accept this matter, but there is no such thing as this. The premonition is at best a beautiful comment on Iceland's specialness in this matter, Madam President. Most amazing, though, is the position of the government groups. Thus, the Conspiracy andunion seemed to have no need to consider the contents of the principle. Rather, the approved energy package seemed unseen. What they were willing to do in such a hurry to take a stand on the matter is their answer, but of course they are surprised. Then, when the matter is discussed at the Senate Hall, all these political parties act as part of the management team and do not have any criticism in the matter. Madam President. After reviewing the nation's continuum transfunctioner history, I thought about looking to the future. The first thing that will be considered is, of course, the continuation of this matter. After approval of this directive, if it does, the next will be in the EU energy sector, which refers to the fourth energy package. Therefore, it is not impossible to wonder about him and examine, although only with this approved package, the third energy package, we have somehow made a commitment to the fourth energy package. If so, Madam President, it is better to stop before continuing. But what does that mean? The fourth energy package is not part of the data of this case, but it is very important. The fourth energy package can't be found there. Still, you hear stories of the fourth energy package found in the Council and is there to consider, but it is not distributed among the senators to take the precise stand on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u233	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir His fine speech to Karl Gauti Hjaltason It would be easy to agree with the senator that much more discussion, much more examination, much more investigation, much more criticism. This is only natural in view of the magnitude of the nation's interests. Hv. The senator raised the matter of at least Two political groups declared support for the case before it was submitted to the General Assembly. They agreed with this energy package unseen, so it is not surprising that they are here to complain about this discussion and think it too much and the opinion that has been held in committees too much because they did not have to consider the matter. Here, it is a natural division between the United States and the group of sisters in Norway, the Labour Party, who used it harshly and demanded that there be no less than eight warnings left in that country. So here it has been, like in other cases, a very clear separation between the Union and at least Norwegians of the Union Party and, in fact, as good as any member of the Norwegian states. It's a question of whether or not the Conspiracy is looking at the Pirate Congregation from what has come to pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u234	Madam President. Yes, it seems that many of the groups of government here at the council are probably five, some of them, I mentioned two, i.e. The restoration and the Conspiracy quickly took their stand on the matter. We're in a hurry. It has caused, of course, a bad democracy that in the Council, the discussion will be much lower as fewer people participate in it, of course. Of course, it's surprising that people do not participate in the discussion more than they do when it comes to such an important matter of interest in Iceland, which many claim, and I think is correct, to really care for the future of energy resources. We are taking a big step into an uncertain future that we do not know entirely where we are from, and people have repeatedly come up in a discourse to try to figure out what could happen. Therefore, all the indications and faultfinders in this matter should be taken seriously and be taken seriously, but when it happens to the council, they think that they are taking their stand on such a critical matter. not to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u235	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. One thing is to accept such large issues unseen, a big issue that will be judged by the legal advisers of the government, which includes the fact that foreign people have at least one member of the United States. as they put it, indirect effects on the organization, the provision and use of the nation's resources. I must also say, Madam President, that I am not pleased to see that the quality and good people intend to support this matter on the basis of viewpoints, such as those who have been shown, that energy prices will fall in the opposite direction, in the belief that here there is a need to promote some consumer protection when it has not been demonstrated otherwise that consumer protection here is appropriate. And that there is a need to protect an open, free, international society in Iceland by accepting this energy package when the questions are far away in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u236	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his comments or comments. It is true that this adds up to consumer protection without being too short of reasoning. I would like to point out that the energy resources, their distribution, their activation, are in the hands of the government on the land, and quite different from those of Europe. The price has been low and much lower than in Europe. I have hoped, Madam President that the price could be further reduced to consumers in this country just because we've paid off our stock costs. We've paid off the distribution system, paid off the continuum transfunctioners, and it's time for the nation, the people of the country, to enjoy their fruits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u237	Madam President. Hv. A senator has made tremendous progress in the extent to which there is a link between working in the country and increasing the well - being and then the use of energy. For that reason, I'd like to ask you why. A senator in advance of the Norwegian Grand Parliament I am just beginning to discuss in my speeches -- yes, reminding me, Madam President, that I noticed that it seems to have been forgotten by a president, who was then in a different form, to sign me up on the rosary as he had promised. I'll ask the President to make it right. But what I'm gonna ask you is why. There are two of the Norwegian officials. One of them says: Norwegian renewable energy production should contribute to greater wealth and employment in Norway. And the other: income will continue to be used to reduce tax returns. This is clear on the Norwegian Council that people and businesses will continue to use what they have done well, on the other hand, to use their energy to promote jobs in the country and on the other hand, to offer people and businesses a lower price of energy. This is against what is being said here about some imaginary benefit from going into a European competitive environment which will only result in high prices and reduce our ability to channel energy into a national job structure. So I ask why. Senator: How can it be said that the Icelandic government does not even try to lay a warning like the Norwegians, though with regard to these factors, since energy has proved to be just as important to us Icelanders as the Norwegian throughout history? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u238	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for his questions. You're right about what you're doing. A senator seems to be as much more detailed and more detailed as the primes of the Norwegian Council than the ones presented here. Actually, I don't know how they're legally bound to the EEA deal, I don't know. I suppose that the Norwegian Grand Parliament has passed the past domestic law in Norway, as mentioned here, and then it is not certain that some of these omens will meet at once, just as we have discussed in this case, that they will not be able to resist if they are in conflict with the European regulations when they have been introduced. Since the Norwegians have removed governmental warnings, everything within the country that is out of control, the third energy package, is simply worthless. But at least They are chief of the Norwegians, as it were. A senator informed here, more detailed than a local and a guide for them as if this means that income should reduce currency. It is a fine payment in Norway if more income goes down to reduce dues. Of course, it would be a cause for joy if the Icelandic government put laws in place rather than having vague warnings that include statements or meetings in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u239	President. I'll admit it's probably right next door. A senator that these Norwegian models have no real meaning because the European Union simply ignores the fact that humans try to put their own advance without passing through the system that leads to the EEA Convention. Yet, there is no reason. A senator concluded that these warnings or efforts by the Norwegians for advance indicate the dangers of the third energy package? The fact that Norway believes that they have to ask for annuity to lower the electrical price, to use the electricity in a job building in Norway? Is it not, then, a special concern for us to produce this package of energy if it prevents these two things here, that we can continue to offer up the low prices and new energy to promote a national job structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u240	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Of course, if the alarm, just as we have discussed in this case, has not been decomposed in the joint EEA committee, it has meaning only to the extent that it is not opposed to the whole act of order. The rule is not just this one energy directive, Madam President, but a number of other instructions found in the Regulation on the interpretation of the law. It is not just a third pack of energy itself, as judges have at this point been having trouble with the Norwegians. Such warnings will always be adverse to the Norwegian government if they go against the rule they have done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u241	President. I'm gonna start off with the awkward self-depth and thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to talk to you about what. At this induction, a member of the body of elders who is law - instructed in advance has been made by the government of the United States. Some of them have been lost for a while but are found back here in the regulations form. Others are based on a common sense, which was obtained either on mineral water and on sandwich or coffee and wine bread between two persons in the world and/or on the phone. And I want to ask you why. A senator of the preliminaries thus set out in Iceland during this induction, whether they think, how he feels about it. One of the candidates of the Future Party has described that in this matter, the advance party is not only wearing belts and bracelets but, rather, with a hairpiece, pants of taste, and new shoes. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that such mjuice is effective in advance, which this class has put in place at this introduction. Where it is. A lawyer would like to ask him to review these warnings with us and explain them as he can in two minutes and do to us, and those observing here, how this will be possible in the past. I think after that I may myself go into some advance, stories of a warning, so I think it would be a real catch if it happened. A senator would like to go over this with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u242	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for his meditation. As I've said before, the notices I've seen in this matter - and I'm not sure that I've seen them all because many have been named - such as the declarations of the individual states in Europe or EFTA, the declarations I've heard of, no value, simply because if we agree with this principle, this law, it's called regulations in Europe, it's the text of the law that applies, it's completely overlooked by some declarations that are in the nature of their political and well-being, of course, it has no value. Regarding timely warnings - these watchmen have spoken a great deal of talk about being worthy of a reward because they do not try the act of order. That's right. It may not be tested within the age of five or ten, possibly longer. But as soon as there are differences somewhere - I'm not a prophet at all, I'm not in the past, and I don't know where it can happen - we'll find that the rule we've agreed on is in this country because we've already committed it. We have made a promise by the introduction that laws in this country do not conflict with regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u243	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I've also been worried about this case because we're in a different situation where we used homemade warnings and thought we could prevent the introduction to Iceland from free raw meat. But according to recent reports, it is not at all. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator may have been right for the government here, and the government groups now learn from the mistake, to learn, as it were. A senator pointed out that people do not listen to homemade warnings in Europe because they have European laws. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would not have been expected to learn from the mistakes faced with raw unheated meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u244	Madam President. Thank you. Once again, a senator for his meditation. To me it is clear that the implementation of Regulation 713, if I take an example, is now slightly unclear what the government intends to do. If the Senate proposal we're going to discuss here is going to be accepted, we've actually cut off control orders and are committed not to anything in this country that is against the rule. Then there's law, and we've seen a change in electrical law. If this Regulation comes before the Council, Regulation 713, with some kind of legal notice, Madam President, as I've heard it, it doesn't matter that we do anything about it if it is against the rule. [[The president calls.]] At any time, time will reveal that if we feel that we are violating the rule, it is against us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u245	Madam President. Can the president take part in trying to find the highest. A minister of state who has not really asked questions in this discussion? So he's been left out of the country, and I don't know if he's right, but it's odd in view that in the early stages of this case, the Supreme Court put it. Minister in particular that I was in public service of the Parliament in foreign lands, as well as the president of the State Department as the Supreme Agent. The secretary seemed not to miss as much, but the Minister had at his time asked members of the Central Party to get a word before the case in order to get to a foreign land. All of this was very peculiar, but the more peculiar is a remote being of the highest degree. Ministers now, for we senators have raised a number of questions about the nature of this matter and the position of the governments that have no answer because the minister is lacking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u246	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say something. Senator. This is an effort to discuss matters, and the discussion has deepened considerably since early and early years. And at the beginning of the second round. at the latest seen to the highest. Secretary of state. The language group on this subject is largely represented by two departments, industry, innovations and tourism, and so does the Ministry of State, and neither of these ministers seem to be able to participate in this discussion or are too little to explain to us those who are here, asking questions and prosecuting opinions. Would it not be a natural arrangement for us to be there to answer? Here's what we've got. Senator... [[The president calls.]] Now I'm having a heart attack, and I may come into it just in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u247	President. I think it's wise to go to the highest. Ministers of State come here and interview us, for they do not make it out of the greater part of the government. It would also be tempting for both of us senators, who have doubts, and I probably think presidents as well as others who want to accept this energy package, to ask the highest possible question. Secretary of State to see if he has already received any evidence that when a package of energy comes to us - and I repeat that a considerable amount of information can be read on the Internet - he will come back to the council and ask for relief on government alerts. I would be interested to know if a foreign minister had received any such presentation, for the matter has been clearly examined by the Ministry since 2016 in the least and a working group already operates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u248	Madam President. I think it's very important that we have the highest power. If there is any possibility that a ministerial minister will be able to hear the discussion as it has become, as has been observed with those who have spoken before me, the discussion has become much deeper and more purposeful. There's a lot more information than it already was. Secretary of state was here on the scene. I would also be personally interested in asking him into the warning he was lost but was found again and would have liked to go along with him in advance of what was being done on the part of the Icelandic government during this induction. I would also be interested to learn about his common understanding and the European Precinct. So I would have liked to know what common understanding was and where it formed. Was it on the phone or over a sandwich and mineral water or something stronger? I would've wanted to know all about it, so I'd say I'm the best. President to find the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u249	Madam President. I agree with that request of the highest order. Let the minister of state come to the chamber of Congress and answer questions that burn on us in this discussion. It is very important to get clear answers, as an example of the claim that the EEA Convention could go and get upset if we go on the legal course to refer this case to the common EEA committee. This needs to be explained much better, and for that, the best one in the material is likely to be the best. Secretary of state. In addition, the highest will be needed. Foreign Minister here to explain the opinion of Baudenbacher, a former judge, a series of statements that arise where I would have liked to get answers from the highest level. Minister. It is urgent that the president take the lead. The minister of foreign affairs is coming to the Hall and answering important questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u250	Madam President. In view of the fact that the president has not yet responded to these repeated requests, I must say again and again that I believe that it is very important to do so. The minister of foreign affairs will be called here so that he can participate in this discussion and explain matters to us. V.E.G. A minister was deeply concerned that if I at his time, a humble senator, who, though having an extremely powerful replacement for me, lost something from earlier discussions but then when the discussion has begun for real and we are here in the future. and is about to settle the matter, accomplish the will of the management sector, the highest will be done. Minister not to answer for that. It cannot be, Madam President, that we are expected to complete this case without the minister's responsibility, and he has provided the answer for it. Then it must be normal for us to postpone the discussion until the highest level. A minister can participate in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u251	The President wants to say the highest power. Foreign minister is foreign in public matters, and he would also like to remind us that the synoptic proposal discussed in the future. V.E.G. Of course, the minister of foreign affairs followed her up and spoke to her during her previous siege. But now the matter is the custody of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u252	Madam President. We thank you for the information that we are here in the second round. I think it was pretty clear, but here is the traveller in a house and has been for some time, in fact all this second round. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. If the highest. The minister of state does not see how to stay here and follow his synonym as a result of the other, so it is not reasonable for someone to grab the ball, follow the case, and take the matter lightly with us, answer the questions that burn us, and answer the claims made in speeches and literature. consumer protection, including the contents of Directive No. 72/2009, and that people will explain and lead us, this erring sheep standing here, and discuss the matter in detail by our error? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u253	V.E.G. President. I agree with the wish that it would be good to have the highest power. Secretary of state in a house. A few questions have been raised as we have gone to the depths of this matter and as you know more, you need more answers. Somehow, when you get involved in matters, more and more questions arise, and we have repeatedly asked questions and have not yet had real answers to them. Therefore, it would be very good if the Foreign Minister saw fit to be here with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u254	A respectable president. I'm going to respond to some of the points discussed in the President's conference board. First of all, it was the highest. Minister here for the first few days of the discussion, also in the second round, he was there, and his questions were not specifically addressed. Of course, the fourth energy package was then discussed at the Commission meeting for this case, and the Ministry answered all the questions that came from a package and described what had been published, what was still in progress, and what was the situation of that energy package. Then it is directed to me to participate in this discussion. Yeah, yeah. A senator, I participated in the discussion for 17 hours, answered several times the same questions, and often corrected the same misinformation. I just don't see a reason to answer it when you're not paying attention to the only one you say. Then, at some point, you stop sharing in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to reiterate - and maybe later I'll come to respect the President's time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u255	Madam President. I thank you for the information of the Supreme Court. The minister of state is not too busy with dead and legitimate incursion. At the same time, I rejoice at it. The head of the State Department, however, has appeared at the Assembly Hall and addressed the matter. I'm going to let me hope that her comments will not be understood in the way that I heard that she is putting up with further participation in discussions. Of course, it is very important that those who are responsible for this matter are here to give an answer to important aspects of the subject. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson mentioned recently that it was necessary to have an explanation of various comments made by a special authority called to work by the State Department, Mr. Baudenbacher. His comments are addressed in a most commendable way in the majority of the branch offices of the State Department, and it is therefore necessary that the head of the Committee be involved in these and other matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u256	Madam President. Of course, we pay attention to the ultimate. The minister of foreign affairs is in charge, but it may seem that this discussion will still be for a while at the council, offering the president of the council and the greater part of the presiding committee, making it appear that the next few days we have to discuss this matter as we need to. The question, then, must be about when the time is at its height. A foreign minister may expect us to have a place to speak with him on the night ahead of this discussion. I'd love to know when the Minister could show up here. It may also affect how long this discussion lasts. As people have observed, we don't need members of the Central Party to take this discussion deeply and take it seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u257	The President is not aware of the highest speed of travel. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u258	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying specifically that I'm glad to see it. paritaprevir In our Áslaug, Arna The Sigurbjörnsdóttir and she even spoke up. Actually, I'd really appreciate it if she shared in the discussions we have here with the rest of us. Because questions have arisen because we have learned something new that we did not know before. Therefore, it would be nice to find answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u259	A respectable president. I've watched very carefully the discussion here during the night and the whole hour it's been going on, but nothing new has been done in it. Maybe there's something new for them why. Senators in this room, who will realize things and do research. The rest of us did it earlier and did it in the committee work why. Foreign Affairs. There we found answers, and we sought answers to all these questions, on opinions, on legal notices, and so on. The committee answered the questions, so the first few hours of the discussion was answered when we all participated in the discussion. But now, when it's become one of the Middle Class's alliances of talking things over and asking themselves questions they know the answers and ask questions they've been told long ago, I just watch over the edge. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u260	Madam President. Those here realize that the head of the State Department was present at the beginning of the discussion and has long been involved in a discussion in the committee, as it itself says. It would not be amiss if she led us on the wrong path by revealing to us what happened on the committee, those of us who are not fortunate enough to sit there. But in my next talks here, I will review some of the previously reported events because this is not just a conversation between the middle-class boys. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, we've got people outside the house who've been following this discussion all night and days lately and still do. So we are not talking to one another in kindness. We are talking to people who are following this discussion. It is likely that the people who are opposed to this act are 62 and that they are not listened to. I'm going to congratulate the 90th birthday party that will be here on Saturday, if I know correctly, I'll be corrected if it's wrong, and I don't think it would be a problem. Councilmen of the Independence Party who intend to participate in cake parties here and where the country should be well prepared to answer more than one of these efforts. It's not that I'm going to cry that the lndependence Party is doing this act, shooting itself into the leg and punching it in like about 15% of the party or something like that, and it's none of my business, but I would be very happy to recommend these good people to be prepared when they meet the root of a creamcake and coffee on Saturday. And there I think that time would be well spent for these good people to consider a few questions with those who were not treated here. And less likely, in a meeting with a man. Foreign Affairs. But that was not what I was going to discuss in this talk. As we know, there are some former politicians who are familiar with the induction of both the first and second energy package and who have followed these packages here. So they have made many declarations - I see that I have only two minutes left in time, so I have to make the main issue wait for the next talk. That is exactly what it means to take a firm stand for what is right. paritaprevir Agglomerates the Ögmundur of Jónasson, who is there, he calls his own old group of motion ▪ offering because that party is neither left nor green anymore. That's how this is going to hit that good boy. I've previously considered that one of the senators who was, if I know the right and will be corrected, perhaps most European members of the Independence Party, former gang. paritaprevir Tómas Ingi Olrich, former minister and later ambassador, has also provided many warnings and warnings about the induction of this type. So these are things that need to be considered. But I will in the talks I'll be moving here later this afternoon fairly reviewing what we've been doing here in the shelter of the night to make it possible for those who didn't wake us, though they're numerous, to observe what we've been discussing here, and to make a big difference to all Icelanders. To that end, I will take a break and bring back the message I gave earlier in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u261	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sedmund's Sæmundsson for his speech, and he looks forward to hearing the rest of that discourse, as he has preached here. Following the discussion that took place earlier on the President's conference board that discussed the need to answer those responsible for this energy package, I would like to reiterate the request to do so. The head of the State Department is here to comment on various matters. I think that's what. The head of the State Department cannot argue that everything has been answered and that everything is wrong and everything is a misunderstanding. Well, it's not an acceptable language, is it? We deal with a case that is so growing that the government's legal advisers have expressed their deep opinion that they believe that by approval of this case, they will receive, at least, foreign members. An indirect effect on the organization, provision and use of Iceland's energy resources. We are discussing this matter with the interests of our children, grandchildren, and future generations. It is absolutely essential that there be an answer to those responsible for this matter. Understandably, why not? A senator should be referred here to an honorable man -, of course, a respected and respected man, Ögmundur Jónasson. It is natural to observe how he has dealt with his old class, which he clearly does not know. He no longer sees him as a left side. He can't see him as green anymore. It reminds us that there are very big issues in this energy package that depend on the nature protection and environmental factors that remain, of course, and we need to discuss them further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u262	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'll agree with what. A senator said that reading and hearing it as a matter of time ago is remarkable. paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson has to say about his old class. But I'm not surprised that he doesn't know that category, because the few things that have come up from the left-hands in this discussion have largely covered the market of Icelandic resources. I would now have been told to tell me three times, as they say in the East, that such things would happen here at the high Council that the left movement's members went out so hard before the market of Iceland's resources as they have made some of the members of the council discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u263	Mr. President. It is truly remarkable to see how individual political parties have changed their appearance in a sense when it comes to this matter. We've discussed it here in our exchange of words. A senator, how longtime and highly valued, highly esteemed leader of the left movement, previously the Common League, The Age of Jónasson, seems to have no knowledge of his old class. There are independents all over the country who don't know their old party. And I don't envy the independence of celebrating the 90th birthday of the party under these circumstances, that he stands here grey for irons in wanting to approve a case as judge of the most successful and the best of men gives the foreign people at least An indirect effect on the organization, disposition and use of Icelandic resources, natural resources owned by the Icelandic nation. [[The president calls.]] One day, this band would live up to its name. But you ask, does he now, the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u264	Mr. President. I think that's an onion next to what's right. A senator, a member of these old established categories, no longer recognizes them. Also, I am absolutely certain that many of the candidates do not know their old group, even though he has belts and bracelets, hair tops, clothes, and new shoes. I'm not sure that a lot of advance people recognize their old group, even in such jewelry. But that is how the times change and the classes are. Who would have believed that the advance party was in this walled crowd and left the sheep's skins at that time? And who would have believed that left greens were here at the market of electricity? And who would have believed that the Independence Party did not listen to their people on their 90th birthday? A man would now think that even wearing jewelry would make his way into business with partymen at that point. But it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u265	Mr. President. Hv. In fact, a senator mentioned the writings of various experienced politicians, and much more could be picked up, since politicians, from left to right, on the spectrum of Icelandic politics throughout history have warned against this energy package. These include members of the Common Community, later the Left Green, of the Common Era, later the United Nations. It is also true that those in the United States alone, as well as others, are independent, all of these traditional forms of politics, and at the same time we observe that much more of the supporters of all the governments are strongly opposed. But the question arises when you look at these two things: What void or space are the present ministers and members of these groups if they do not simply ignore what their supporters say and the more experienced ones from these categories, but rather, do those who allow themselves to express doubts about this energy package and criticize? In what sort of vacuum or rock cave, or I don't know what, do people? How can it be? A senator explained that this breach took place and to that extent, as I mentioned, was allowed even in the face of frequent rudeness toward people who pay attention to this energy package? The warnings come from the labor movement from people who depend on energy for competitive prices, from abroad too, from Norway. But it is as if this particular group, this distinct group of members of Congress, were immune to this and often responds to it by means of a clean noise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u266	Mr. President. I've been asking why ministers and members of these government groups don't listen to their own people. I ask, " Why do they feel so discouraged that 63% of those who take sides in a recent survey on this subject are absolutely against it? ' I ask why these good associates of ours think of trampling this case through the council, as they intend to do now, though it takes a little longer than originally expected, and down into the neck of their voters. What causes them? I'm going to take a hint at the happiness and read a question right from what. A former senator, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson asking, by permission of a president: Is the World Council and the World of Churches, including the media, being separated from social roots? Is the council a threat to the nation? Not quite, part of the nation is out here on the field. There are many people who have grinned the person listed here because they feel that something few - a number of motions have begun in fewer and fewer groups than there are on the outside. I remind you that the apostles were originally 12, for example. I also don't understand this folly that representatives of these classes show to their voters. Of course, the same voters will show these categories the same in their next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u267	Mr. President. I wondered, " What does that tell us? ' The senator said that the warnings about this matter came from experienced politicians of such different categories, since through the years these men were all referred to as nothing at all. I think it was a big case where they all shared, but they really are here, even men who have been Europeans, well, men like sometimes called the father of the EEA Convention, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, even they strongly warn against what's going on here. What is the conclusion? A senator because these old opposers, who often dealt with politics for years and decades, are speaking in this matter almost as one man?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u268	Mr. President. A very important question that I thank you for. I think that what has brought them an old enemy, if I may put it this way, or the old opponents together, is the common experience they have of previous induction, that they have seen what went wrong at the previous induction--now I can't hear myself in the middle room to hear. These fine men have learned from this, so they are acting out of experience and are trying to show the new generation that has made a gap in these categories to see what happens if there is not a good introduction like this. However, it is either this young generation or another generation that is present in these templelike groups that they do not want advice. [[The president calls.]] However, the above proverb says: Often it is good. I think these groups and their spokesmen would have been expected to listen to them as princes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u269	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a fine speech that's a little evasive about this matter; what is it that such a large matter shouldn't, and doesn't, disappearing over some sort of stereotype - it's not a matter that the interests of the move team in Iceland fail to drive through, or independent party. This is about the nation's interests. That is why people of different categories with different political backgrounds come to the issue and declare that it should be done with caution. It is an article that is widely used in my other field of work called the English Language ◯Crew Resource Management, or Affliction, at times being published as an English - language sumptitude, which includes the entire company in which people operates. I believe that the sciences there are taught and used and used and used for decades and that they have been developing are relevant to work sites, although they are not connected to flights. It's about finding the right way and safe path. It is not about maintaining power balance or about making decisions. Or who would want to be on a plane at a speed of 500 miles [800 km], since the captain would take his decisions on the grounds that they shrink over to show his power? There is never good treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u270	Mr. President. So I'm just going to keep quoting a little bit at a time. A former senator, Ögmundur Jónasson, has said that this matter is much bigger than a classist. I couldn't agree with him. This case should now, if everything was said at the council, be in the common career of all of us in this room so that the end result of the matter would be as practical as possible. That's exactly what Ögmundur comes into this, and I'll review it better in the next speech. Within this house, these cases are disappearing somewhat through line lines, although there is almost one category and, yes, another less with those against this show in here. Ögmundur states, by permission of the President: But it is so strange that when you discuss the matter between people, in the community, there is a whole different picture. The proportions are very different. There are people who chose the Independence Party, the Propulsion Party, and the Left Motion, in good faith, in a far different direction from their representatives of the General Assembly. - Major agents at the General. And notice that our former colleague's fine qualities are: The people chose these three groups in good faith. But the three parties are completely failing their voters. Even though they're wearing their clothes on, and they're glued to the top of their hair, and God knows what, and in their new shoes, they're still failing their voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u271	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to continue with the thoughts I had just entered here on how to work together and the ideologies of what is commonly called CRM. It is the ideologies of making a decision with a critical thought, of taking in information, and then trying to find out what is right, that is not in any Morphis style or the conclusion of who was right. I'd take it easy if I were to be corrected here for some stuff. I would be grateful for that. However, correction is not being offered. When you ask a question, they say things, but you don't get answers to the questions that are perplexing and that matter most of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u272	Mr. President. I'll agree very badly. A senator later said an answer. And, of course, that is how it works. Councilmen like what? The head of the State Department of State has no reason to participate in this with us if she feels that she has finished doing her duty and is not in a hurry to hang over us. She's right. On the other hand, I believe, as a plagion in Icelandic politics, that no matter what happens, they do not admit mistakes. A hole of 100 billion is being dug in the Hydromosis because people fail to make mistakes. The future of our people, our children and grandchildren, is overrun because humans do not admit to making mistakes. And people think that the group in this room would want something more predictable to say to the same party: We told you this. We warned you. That's not what we want. We want to join these people in making sure that they are decent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u273	Mr. President. At this point, I'm more obedient to the discussion than it is to bring together some major factors. However, before I do, I'd like to ask you one question: Did the three federal groups tell the co-opposed followers of the three voters that before the last election they would waive the nation's resources to the extent described in the legal basis of the legal agreements of the government, that foreign parties would at least receive indirect effects on national planning, provision and use of energy resources? That's exactly what the government's about: She's making a case. She sought the opinion of the best men. All of this is a fine and well - thought, and to the credit of its authors. The two people here are often referred to, the Friðsson Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már, on the other hand, on the basis of the potential conflict between the types of species that follow this energy package at the Icelandic Republic's constitution, and on the other hand, they deal with the effects of the power input package. As for the first point, their conclusion is that there is considerable doubt, that is, their word - I stress the importance of the word, that is, an appeal on their part, and to double it is another enforcing - that there is considerable doubt in the question that the regulations that are being introduced into the Republic's constitution are being fulfilled. On the other hand, they deal with the effects of the induction and come to the conclusion that at the beginning of my talk, it is repeated in my opinion that foreign people will be able to get in a position with approved energy package to have at least An indirect effect, they leave it to themselves whether or not they are, Mr. President, on the organization, on the disposition and use of the nation's energy resources. It is for these reasons that we are here, members of the Central Party, not saving ourselves. This is under the interest of our children, our grandchildren and future generations in this country. When 25 years ago, there were men here who had bones in their noses and didn't let it pass, with the approval of the EEA Treaty, who didn't agree to anything except that the fishing resources would be worth it. Everything else is upstairs. It now seems that there are men in charge of countries, with the ensuing enthusiasts around them and these three government groups, who want and insist on walking in it, agree that foreign people will take hold of another resource, the energy resource. The case was presented in this way, Mr. President, that for obvious weakness, legal notice should be made. No analysis has been made how this foreordaining of the problems involved. And there has been a great search for him after he suddenly disappeared into his speech. The chairman of the House of Independence from the end of the course. On May 4, 15, when he explained that the defense was virtually nonexistent, but I see that it is here in accordance with Regulation, such as that some text in the Regulation is able to vindicate the national rights that we shoulder by accepting this package of energy. There are many questions left regarding the fourth energy package, about the Norwegian experience of applying and setting eight warnings. And it also takes, Mr. President, to explain the most peculiar comment of the government's opinions made here, a Swiss attorney.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u274	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson A great deal for the speech. I've been wondering what's going on in those words; organization, disposition, and use of the energy resource, what that really means for us. So far, I've been wondering if it has anything to do with anything, the levels of government consultation that discuss the change in the constitution in terms of resources. I imagine somehow that this will work together, that it just needs to be considered to change the constitution to make the whole plan work. Therefore, I would like to hear more about what this third energy package contains and what it means. A senator is referring to the organization, provision and use of energy resources, which is certainly shown in the third energy package. So we're thinking about the continuum transfunctioners? Are we just thinking about that power of water? We have a tone of voice, and that's how long we could count it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u275	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to say regarding government supporters and support groups, that there can be an understanding of support for the unseen package, support for solidarities, and restoration. These groups really have only one issue to fight for, that is, in the European Union. They naturally think that using this approved energy package, they would take an important step in that direction. In the same way, they seem to view an appeal on the part of the Icelanders to accept foreign sources in Icelandic energy resources in the nation's possession might somehow interfere with the way they want to go to the European Union. So I can totally understand it, and it's easy to recognize the support of these people. I admit, Mr. President, I don't know anyone who understands the Pirate Congregation's stairway and is not going to try to understand it. But I'm completely incomprehensible how the three classes with long and dignified history here can put their name upon this already existing mess. This matter is totally unashamed, totally unsatisfactory. There are so many questions left. Also, those who have been selected for positions of responsibility at the council come in a talk chair and can hardly understand this other than that they are unable to attend to the thought - provoking questions raised in this matter. What a walk, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u276	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I can well say that it is not unusual for the European Parliament groups to do everything within their power to gain complete involvement in the European Union, if I can use that word or expression. But I can totally agree that I find it odd to watch groups like the Independence Party, the forward party, and the left green. Surprisingly, the three groups do not know how to use the legal means of sending a three - pack energy package into a reconciliation process to the European Commission. Suppose it is not going to work - now I'm going to use the word an emergency inhibitor, then it should be an emergency inhibitor to postpone the case at any distance until the decision has been made in Norway on September 23. We've been waiting, I don't think we're going to be bothered by anyone, even if we wait for a few months and do things right, putting out of the experience of other nations, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u277	Mr. President. It cannot be said that grace is over the Independence Party when he celebrates his 90th birthday, a group that has viewed himself as a foundation in Icelandic politics. On the part of the scholarly class, it is a theory that if it does not enjoy it, it is a state of chaos, a so - called chaos theory. Other scholars and in some ways the same have another teaching, i.e. that the Independence Party meeting is such a meeting that we can match national meetings, that it is indeed the advice of the Icelandic community and society. This has been repeated in very large - scale and majestic writing of the magazine that once represented the sect's language, the morning newspaper. That it is at stake to be responsible for this and to take full advantage of the fact that a foreign source is represented in the national energy resources that the government's legal advisers almost equal the decision to foreign citizens would be given to them for fishing resources in Iceland. What a privilege it is that no human has ever been able to foresee it! The progressive mammogram, the respectable lady, and, at times, in cooperation with other categories, is now less mannerly than at times, must decorate with some nobility or valve. Left greens, based on ethnic feelings and land defenses, should be the first to govern the Republic of Germany's government, responsible for the government's leading administration that is going to provide these foreign sources of energy to the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do we have to say about this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u278	The president does not intend to choose the words for what? A senator. On the other hand, he wants less. A member of the body is to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u279	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. It is good to examine regularly on long trips from where we started and just as much as where to go. Well, it's so in this case that we've been going around a lot because it's a big case. It is not that we have lost sight of where to think. But I have a feeling that's right. A senator is saying that, if I understand him correctly, that because of the magnitude of the matter and the wideness of the matter, perhaps the outcome may be. The Foreign Affairs Committee on the final meters has been launched on specific and speculative aspects of the matter, which people believed were a means of redemption to allow the system to run its course. What's being offered here during the discussion, is that it's all about consumer protection, that's in the continental concept rather than in Iceland, I'm going to let myself say everything. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if he sees the matter the way I do, that this is a place that is jumping onto certain words without going deeper into what is behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u280	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thorddsson very much for his counter-sponsored response. He was responsible for the work at the foreign committee. I had the opportunity to attend some of the committee meetings on this matter. I notice that the president and some other committees complete a great deal of praise in their jobs and think they were the best. I don't want to bring reproach on other people's jobs in any way, but when they say that there were nine meetings in the State Department on this matter, what should you say? Is that much or little when the nation's interests are under, when the question of whether foreign people will be allowed to operate in the national energy resources? Is that true of nine meetings? I attended and participated in a meeting where Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, author of the literature on European rights, and now vice president of the National Court. In answer to a question from me at the meeting, about the national value of the legal advance, he spoke before the delegates, including the why. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that it naturally had no value in a national sense - added that it existed in a home bridge. I don't know if the law professor and the judge were referring to a doll, so that it would be waved in front of the voters or used to ease the assembly of the Independence Party, which at least for a long time, this matter was unsatisfying. But that is what he said, and I wonder why. The head of the State Department should have drawn no conclusions from these svar by prófessor Davíð Thor Björgvin's son at the requested meeting of the foreign committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u281	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it is so in this case that it is likely that more time has been spent examining the opinion of certain men and possibly of women than others and more time spent in examining the conclusions that men and women would like to see than to study texts and materials that concerned what was right, i.e. what would be able to do, and that is this constitution. This is well - known, and there are scholarly theories about this in logic when men get dressed and hang themselves on the subject of the subject and build all their language around it, but they do not look for reason and later find the conclusion after a thorough examination. I may better introduce it to some of the talks I have prepared to study the lyrics that lay the basis for the opinions given. I think it's important that we realize what this really means when we have to work for the conclusion that was decided on: Yes, we have to come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u282	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's comments. There is no need to draw feathers over the search for a group of scholars and to ask them whether the provisions in this energy package are going to match the constitution, and that these scholars do not agree with each other. All of these are the most respected and excellent scholars who have obtained a good report for their knowledge of law, and there is no particular news that lawmen do not agree. However, the government is located on two of these candidates, which, by writing a opinion in behalf of the government, have evidently become legal advisers of the government, give very thorough evidence that there is considerable doubt on whether a approved energy package will lead to a conflict with the Republic's constitution and mountains in a very detailed way, and to some extent, much more detailed than is being done in other opinions, about the consequences of this approved energy package. It has the highest conclusion that a foreign institution will receive at least An indirect effect on resource planning, disposition and utilisation. They also state that there is more power available today than has been seen since we entered the European Economic Convention. The government has to do better than wear a dresser, some warning that has now turned out to be pennished over a period of time, and a search has been over. [[The president calls.]] This situation must be won far better than it can be seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u283	V.E.G. President. In an article published by the Morning newspaper on a third EU energy package, Guttormsson, former minister, says that the government is wearing out that package and does not candidly report legal opinions on the matter. In addition, Hjörleifur warned in his article that the EU will be controlled by the energy supply package. The situation is now that the Secretary of State, according to the above, will introduce a pack of energy with the awareness that his binding rules are not being carried out unless the Parliament's home harnessed an economist to the electrical transport of Iceland. In this article, Hjörleifur Guttormsson, by permission of a president, says: ▪ At the same time, we need to reexamine the rules on whether or not the rules will pass the constitution. This is to be done against the confirmation of the General Assembly of a pack of three energy, which obviously wars against the republic's constitution, (in his opinion and intelligence) -- and indiscriminably would no later be active than the fixing of a sea cable. It would be good to remember that Friðrik and Stefán Már, who have been mentioned here today, say in their opinion, by permission of the president: It is the right of the EEA/EFTA countries according to the EEA Convention to deny recordings in the EEA Convention and the following implementation of the respective types. They keep saying: However, such calls for reconciliation at the scene of the joint EEA committee. They also make mention of the limitations that appear on the wording for a cable, with permission of presidents: ▪ This solution, however, is not flawless.◯ The attorneys state that if the Allied Council lifted the warning from the existing decision of the European Commission from May 5, 2017, the council will include: to make sure that the EU types that they decide are in agreement with the republic's constitution. It doesn't matter whether there is a cable or not. They say, with President's permission: However, this does not change the fact that a third energy package will not be recorded in Icelandic national rights unless it lasts for the constitution. Will the decision of the Generals to reduce Iceland's controlled warning to the third energy package and introduce it to the Icelandic national rights to be based on the assumption that ground-to-border infrastructures will be established here, This is very clear from their peers, and I understand that Guttormsson's testimony was so powerfully quoted, and he seems to be doing so. I'm beginning to think we're starting on the wrong end. It's being introduced into the wrong chronological order what's going on, and I wonder why it's done. On September 23, I seldom tire of discussing the subject. will be taken into account by the European Court of Justice in Norway. I feel that it is only natural for us to wait a few months here in the country to know conclusively what their conclusion will be in Norway. The other is what we have repeatedly pointed out that it is legally best to refer a pack of energy to the European Commission. That's not how the system is giving up. Indeed, we are respecting the wealth found in officials and moving them to carry out what we feel would be reasonable at this point. It must be the exact time we seek the right time. I may think it's the smartest thing to start with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u284	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for the speech because, despite many details in it before, comes on something that suddenly became very clear to me, at least to me, and is very interesting, i.e. The European Union's right to refuse induction, said why. Senator. That's right, that's our right and that's part of the European Economic Area Convention. Ninety-three. The contract says: ▪ The decision of the joint EEA committee shall, however, be agreed with an agreement between the Community and the EFTA countries that say one voice. What, though, is the growth of this matter if we examine it in the foundation? Norway has set eight warnings for this induction. Iceland has set--is it one or two? Can anyone answer that question? Or are there three, or are they four? But they are not necessarily the same as Norway's models. Liechtenstein, on the other hand, has built in. Here, the EEA doesn't speak in one voice. This is just not settled in the joint EEA committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she sees it the way I do, that here's the separation for 93, par. The EEA Treaty, that the EEA is speaking in one voice, just not fully fulfilled, and waiting for the decision of the European Court of Justice in Norway is really common sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u285	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. It is quite clear in my mind that some sort of complication will develop because we're going this way. We're talking about a conclusion that's gonna lift the premise as it's called, then we're at least lying in front of each other. Two legal bills, if I've just noticed. Suppose they will be approved, refused, and then these governmental warnings will be canceled. Could it be then that the whole thing would need to return to the EEA joint committee? I think it's so complicated in such a simple matter that it's quite different, knowing that the Norwegians had eight priors. We know that they have not been accepted, and they wait for a decision to be made. That's why I think we should learn from the experience published in Norway, and whether it's not best for us at this point to get a legal way through the EEA committee so we're doing things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u286	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think that's exactly what it is, why is this case so overwhelming? Why is this tremendous pressure coming from, I'll let me say to the Europeans, to finish it? Yes, it is because the aims of the EU are in terms of the need for countries such as Iceland and Norway, who have vast resources of renewable cleaner energy, which fall completely towards the targets of the Union on climate until 2050, and to speed up access to the EU's resources. Clean energy for the whole European Union. I mean, wouldn't it be perfect, since the Norwegians have to be running around with some kind of warning, not answering them for 14 months, 15 or 16 or whatever it takes? Just not answering them and then getting the Icelanders to accept the induction and then to say in a political statement: Yes, yes, it's all right. We'll take a look at this, you just go home and say it's the face of a deal. By the time we're done, Iceland and Liechtenstein have reached the same point, i.e. full induction. That's when Norway is in trouble with its warning, being the only state when the situation is so growing that the majority of the EEA countries are not at all satisfied with this induction. There must be some reason. I'm asking why. A senator: Could this be the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u287	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting approach because at first we heard that we had to accept this because we were the state left behind, the other states had made everything their way, and everything had been fine. That's why it's so important that we get this second round. Here, about the matter where we learn, as I have called it, a new truth. Let's say this thing goes on, that we're creating a pack of three, that the same argument for Norway can be used. Therefore, we should wait for a few months to obtain the matter completely in a clean place and then start from there and take a safe and firm step toward this agreement on our terms. It's kind of strange to experience this pace that's supposed to be on it. It's also a little strange to be missing, I'd like to say media coverage. As we have repeatedly noted, so have we been able to read articles in the farm magazine. Articles have been published in the Morning newspaper. But beyond the years, we have probably seen this tremendously important issue of energy pack three, followed by a four - pack of energy. Nobody seems to pay attention to this. It seems that no one is paying attention to the way we are going. It is claimed that we are raising fear. We're just realistic. We want to get on our feet. We want to know what we're doing, and we want to know where we're going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u288	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. The review of the Industrial Association of Energy puts everything in place on the fourth energy package and it's more important or wider, and I can't remember if the word is used, than the third. It can be read between the references that the organization considered as less important and even more important to protect Icelandic interests when it comes to the fourth energy package. There are now some members of the administration board, stakeholders, possibly members of Parliaments and Ministers, who have information on the contents of the fourth energy package. So you wonder, even. ... becauseof what the Industrial Association says in its review, whether it is more reasonable to consider the whole case, whether or not it is appropriate to have a different way of governing warning now, before we see the blackness of white what is in the fourth energy package, or whether it is more reasonable to look at the whole thing, because we need to see if there is any other means of subsiding control plans for the four energy package, or if the results will be that when the wider package doesn't have to go this way before the council because we have to put a controlled warning in a pack of three. Could this be the way it's done and the change that it won't need, that it's a technical change, as is often said when adding rules and things?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u289	V.E.G. President. This is very interesting. Thank you. A senator very much. As this seems to be happening to us in Norway, a three - pack of energy was created there. The decision to make a right decision remains to be made. I think it's been 14 to 16 months since the court posted, and then there's nothing to ask of them. Based on the immediate introduction of what is presented in an energy pack of four in Norway, it is at least beginning to reflect quickly on the induction process, you can imagine the same happening here. Worse yet, we have not seen the contents of a four - pack of energy, so we have no idea what is in it; we know that it is 1,000 pages. I'm not sure that if all the items are what I think it looks like, they'll be passing through senators at the National Council of Iceland. I wouldn't be surprised if it's this package that's what counts most to get four things through fast and safely. Anyway, it looks like it to me if we look at Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u290	A respectable president. It is only natural for members of the Parliament to pause and wonder if the amount of energy introduced here in Iceland may be the delay. The best that's happened a long time ago. The delay in the induction process makes us see what awaits us in a pack of four energy. We know that there are members of the community, stakeholders, and others who seem to have had some presentation on this subject. In response to the Ministry of State, it says that there is a working team dealing with a pack of four energy. I don't think it's really important that we just ask questions and ask - keeps on asking if we can get some answers from the members of the board or any members of the council that comes with this energy package - whether they've got an introduction to the fourth package, whether it's an assessment of experts who work for the government that the induction of the fourth energy package is a direct continuation of a normal continuation of energy package from a pack of three. If so, members of the board must have been given a presentation on what changes in energy will be made when the fourth package is introduced. In my next speech, I will try to relate a little about that today was published on the European Union declaration website, and a slight notice that this fourth package has been taken through the process, if I have understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u291	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I'm not sure the Generals got a presentation on a pack of four energy. At times, members of the Parliament have been claimed to be the smallest pawn on the table, and there are others who make important decisions. I just don't believe that they're really good at it. People who usually sit here with us are so trapped in their projection that they can see what an energy package 4 is and choose not to come up here to answer us who have repeatedly called for information about what is in a pack of four energy if he has arrived some way into our Icelandic government system. I reiterate that we senators are often the least pawns on the table. We seek answers and truth in what we want to promote, and I think people in general do it from the heart. That doesn't change the fact that it would be good for us to get an introduction on a pack of four energy when he's inside the operating system. I have to agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u292	A respectable president. First, I want to advertise by where and how they answered that this is also a request to wipe out Iceland from this so-called PCI list. I have a report or overview from the European Union since March that is called 'Clean energy for all Europeans', or pure energy for all Europeans, where Iceland may not be seen. But it's drawn into Scotland into the Atlantic, and I assume it's not for the Faeroe Islands, but for Iceland. Or maybe she's passing by in Iceland? I don't know. But you can assume that this is the connection with Iceland, and that's why the top management thing must have some information about how it's still going to be in there. I noticed a different date on the European Union website. This fourth energy package is still being discussed, or the policy they call pure energy for all Europeans, and it says - and I can't help but think of it as being new, coming on today, I'm still warning that something has gone right with me - that the European Union has already cleared up the energy policy, environment, or frame, and how to get rid of fossil fuels in cleaner energy, etc. This plate is then divided into several parts; energy efficiency of buildings, renewable energy, energy security or technology, etc. Then there's one in all of this, entitled 'Eternity Score design'. With President's permission, I'd allow myself to translate it really as the product's efficacy or how the market is going to work. When we consider what is meant by it, there are some factors that are presented, including will be considered for an update in this so-called ACER facility. I've allowed myself to try to translate it lightly, I've got a warning, it's not meant by legitimate sources. It says, by permission of the president: In view of the upcoming challenges for the EU electricity market and the changes made to other aspects of the policy - i.e. The policies that I mentioned earlier, about pure energy for all Europeans - have the role of ACER in the energy market and to ensure an increase in energy supply. ACER was formed under the third energy package and the role was primarily linked to coordination, counseling and monitoring. However, since new market rules are going to translate cross-border partnerships - a lack of what was said in the old policy - regional cross-border surveillance is a potential problem with conflicting decisions and unnecessary charms. In other words, this institution is to be updated, ACER. Then, in my translation, I say: Therefore, in addition to the harmonisation of national energy monitoring institutions, ACER has been given increased potential in areas where different national decisions can affect cross-borders and are likely to lead to problems with energy markets, i.e. If people in the United States make different decisions, they can create problems for the overall population. For example, ACER will monitor regional organisations in the future, regional syncries in which administrators or transport managers determine, and since broken or incompatible actions might have negative effects on the market and consumers. A planned approach will also explain the rule in this manner by presenting the direct approval of ACER instead of the special approval of all national organisations. The national institutions that are part of the ACER will decide on these issues with a greater degree of vote. It's said to give more power to this institution. It will be able to divide more of what happens within the countries involved in this cooperation, which means that it will affect Iceland because we are going to introduce these types with skin and hair, as we have heard and heard in this platform and really out of town. Therefore, we must call for information as to whether this change in ACER will require a different rotation of the Icelandic constitution, and some more needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u293	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. She was good. This is a key, and it's so tragic that you can't get members of the council, the artists of the matter, to sit down and discuss this with us and stand up in the public chair or get the highest level. The general president to listen, not just to make sure that the structure of the meeting is largely correct, but to listen to what is being said here. There's a bullshit paradox in the lawsuit. It's a hole. Is a pack of three being fully introduced? [[For example, consider: At least not a pack of four energy.]] That was a good answer. At least we're not creating a pack of four energy, say we. The vice president of the council and the senator, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, she's certain she's not. In other words, we are fully implementing a pack of three. That is what we think we are doing, who stand here and object to this. Because looking at laws and regulations and legal information shows that this is not a matter of consumer protection for the Icelanders. It's about consumer protection for Europeans. And it is likely that full induction will be against the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think. The senator that the induction as such and the warnings made to her are just to make sure that Iceland's constitution is not broken, and otherwise the induction is complete? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u294	V.E.G. President. The induction is complete. The primary source is home bridge, as experts have described. However, it is very interesting to hear a member of the Independence Party sit in the Hall of Independence and talk instead of participating in the discussion, writing articles in paper, trusting in a talk chair and answering questions directly related to it. I challenge it. Since a member of the hall is not concerned about a pack of four energy, he is still sitting in the hall giving an answer and saying that he is not being discussed. It can be understood, then, that members of the Independence Party, or at least. A senator sitting in the hall, Jerry Haraldsdóttir, does he care exactly whether a three - pack energy package will produce any change that we need to produce from a pack of four? I wonder if that's what the senators got a presentation on. Or the senator may view it as just a matter of view, so we bring in a package of energy. Period. Two. Period. Three. Period. Four. Period. So, all of a sudden, we've introduced all EU energy packages, or frames, and she's just happy and contented with it, seeing from the four energy packages, e.g. requires that we change our constitution or place it in some danger, there is more power initiative, whether or not what we see in a pack of four to promote the ACER Institute makes it necessary for us to adopt those rules in Iceland as well. Do a senator have any idea? I don't think so. [[Up front.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has no idea. I challenge it. In the hall, a senator gives us an opportunity to ask her questions and discuss these matters with her. I think it's very important, and we keep in mind that we're fully implementing these European directives. Of course, a person's opinion of whether or not he or she is wary is different. But what's wrong. Of course, it's all true, a senator said that this is better than nothing. But it wasn't all that mattered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u295	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. - All right, let's go. paritaprevir The University of Haraldsdóttir'sóttir. I'd like to come in on this induction for a minute. If the induction is complete, which appears to be early light, and that these two legal notices that we put against the eight that Norway makes, and no legal notice made by Liechtenstein, and yet speaking the EEA in one voice, are found in 36. g. Directive 72/2009 in c-communicates: the exception of restrictions, to which it is the role of the Commission's surveillance centre, which is that of the ACER-secure through electricity between Member States, including developing an appropriate cross-border transport capacity to meet the demand - this is very important - ◯ and improving integration of national markets which can facilitate national electricity flow within the Community,... sheep/year. Do people really believe that this text is just here in Iceland and not defend the European Union and its interests? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u296	A respectable president. Once we have implemented the EU rules, we must follow through on them. I think 7. The contract says that humans have an obligation to make sure that all this rottenness is taken up and that harmony is maintained on the inner market of all. There is no turning back once you've been brought in. That's why you're really so shocked, a respectable president, at the apathy as well. Councilmen, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who was sitting in the hall earlier, presents this whole thing completely when it is absolutely clear that the European Union's will is to continue developing the authority of this institution, ACER, to develop this common energy market. Then people will pretend that it's not a single matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u297	Mr. President. What's in the eye of the paints listed here regarding the induction of a pack of three energy is just this incoherentness. The consequences of the induction, as foretold, are not really known. I noticed why. A senator gave a very good talk over the warning given here. Some have been lost, in fact, found again, etc. I'm not there yet. They will be in charge later. Not exactly strong. So my meditation and what I want to ask is what I want to do. So the senator's mind is said to be on the scene, how the officers are put out, whether they are over their heads, whether they're what we're about to call "apocalyptic," because I think, as I said at the outset, that men are very careless about this matter. I think, too, and mentioned in my speech earlier, that people have the political syndrome that cannot face failures, that they cannot admit their mistakes. But when it becomes clear that this is a mistake, they have become just such a horrible beast, both for the nation and for those members themselves, that there will be no return. So I especially want to ask you why. A senator on the alert to this matter: Do they keep? Is that enough? How might they be improved? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u298	V.E.G. President. If I have understood this correctly, and hopefully it will be discussed later tonight, closer to the priority to be set up in the Regulation, which has been distributed to the top of the foreign committee, and it is expected that all members of the council will have brought it to this day, just to one of the types mentioned. Aside from the way the models are drawn up, the jurists who have discussed the matter have said that the warning is fine, but it is mostly in the home bridge. Of course, there is no priority in Iceland's law, and when, or if, let's put it this way, the EFTA Court's case will not be much of a matter of preparatory action in Iceland. It only matters what the European Union's law says. If we've adopted 713 and 713 and all around it bix, that's what it means. That's what we're facing, of course. If we want to secure ourselves completely -- I think the executives have said that they have belts and shoulder ties and don't know what in this case, but I don't think the management men have everything on their tail when it comes to this analogy -- of course, the best way to send the case back to the joint EEA committee and try to get reserves from this whole package because we're not connected to this market. However, we can adapt Icelandic legislation, change it as we would like to improve the management within the country, if we want to do so. We don't need any European legislation to do that. We can get role models from all over the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u299	Mr. President. I've been saying that for a long time, or about that. As long as I've been in politics, inculcating one of the energy packages, which the Icelanders committed in an eviction system, and being much more Catholic than the pope, I have long claimed that we would not have had to bring that package into place and could easily have received a release from it. I've had that feeling for a very long time, and I'm kind of stuck in my opinion that we didn't have to install that package at all. I'd like to hear it at night. A senator whether he can agree with me in this regard because I believe in myself that in many respects our calamity began there. When the first package was fixed and energy is a product, it was a serious thing to itself. But this exchange of enterprises at one time in distribution and production was, in my opinion, an amazing mistake, and the question is, do we have to do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u300	V.E.G. President. It's been shown, including. in Iceland's review of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's former minister and godfather of this EEA Convention, that energy was not on the table when the EEA contract was being negotiated. She came in at a late stage. I think it may have been the first mistake, to decide to participate in it. I have to admit, I don't remember how it all happened. But it is clear that we were able to run our case much better with a pack of energy. We should have received an exception at that time from much of it or in all respects. However, it was a great desire then at the time for the then minister to use the opportunity to change the energy system. A big mistake, I say without hesitation, and also said it at that time in the category I was in then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u301	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I cut by a few things when he gave us the report that was published today on energy efficiency, e.g. Building. I'd like to get an overview of what that means. Also, I am amazed that territory is spoken of. Then I wondered, because we've been discussing it here today, whether the regions will no longer be defined as so much geographic, but if this area is built or put together by the markets of energy trade, I'll use that definition. Hv. A senator entered another, i.e. Regional administrator. That means that we would have one regional administrator in Iceland, which would be the National Energy Institute, and then this regional manager would be what has been called a national rule. What's interesting about this, talking about the change in ACER announced in a fourth energy package, is that the national rule will be without vote. It's a bit of a big fact to roll it up. I'd like to contact these regional issues in particular to ask if I'm wrong if this is all based on these market-based energy areas, not geographically.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u302	President. Yes, as I have understood the matter at least, these areas are not necessarily geographic areas. Rather, they are seen and replaced by some arrangement that I have not, unfortunately, knowing exactly how to reason or how to apply. The role of these so-called administrators will, of course, be adjusted to the changes that will occur in the ACER Institute and its role. Then, of course, these changes will reach Iceland, too, at least if we produce this energy package three as it is now, made 713 and 713, and then I think we are opening up completely wide for the changes that will follow at that institution. When I say this, I'm totally aware that one of the two supporting processes has been written, since the EFTA Institute of Observation has a role and conflict to take place in that process and so on. But it's just not a credible process in which the ACER institution has all the tails and hails in the process of it all. I'd like it to be one of those things. It's much more important to try to get out of the process. Hv. A senator also asked about the efficiency of buildings. It's one of the most important things to keep up with the four energy panels because, in Iceland, renewable energy sources are used mostly or completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u303	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. This is an amazing discussion because as we have the opportunity to talk things over and read, we will go further and further, and there will be more and more questions. There's a bit of a shame that the government claims it's a little too much that it's about consumer protection, and it's about increased transparency and all of that. It's just that mine knows nothing more than an Icelandic translation of these Baudenbacher's political checks that came the other day and was, I'd like to say, cost of a foreign minister. I would like to say that we should continue the discussion and that we want to agree with it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u304	President. Specialist Carl Baudenbacher is an extremely experienced and brilliant man and is highly respected in foreign service, not only in Iceland, but also a controversial debate, as it happens and is primarily an expert on law and European law. As a result, his political views are less important. However, his legal significance is much more because he leaves no doubt that our rights are to use at 102 gr. The EEA Convention. I, perhaps correctly, summoned from councilmen earlier, to be talking about this fourth energy package, but it's closely related to what we're doing right now. Because I know that the President who now sits on the President's throne is a very unscrupulous and curious president, I would really like to encourage him to study what was placed on the European Union website today on the fourth energy pack. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u305	V.E.G. President. I would like to be a subject of this speech, perhaps in several parts, of the European Parliament's Directive and of the Council No. 72/2009, which is together with the other documents of the spine in a energy pack of three and the majority of the inputs we're discussing here. The Parliament's decrees in a pack of three are regulations from 713, 714 and 715 of 2009, followed by 72 and 73 of 2009, which deal with electricity and natural gas. The 72 command is about the electricity. Thirty-three. magazines on marketing openings and mutuality. I want to pray. Councilmen to keep in mind market opening and mutuality. The market in the European Union and the EU is being referred to here. It says, by permission of the president: The Member States shall ensure that free customers are: a) to July 1, 2004, free customers, as specified in verses 1 to 3. Twenty-niner. Directive 96/92/EC. Member States, no later than 31 January each year, show the criteria for the definition of these unbound customers, An unbound client means in the context of this introduction that we talk about here and is mentioned in Article 12. definitions: acquiesced customers: customers who can buy supplies of electricity by choice in the sense of 33. ................... And who would be standing up now? Not the name Birgir, but the one who gathers energy and sells it. I'm not trying to impress people here on corruption. But go on with 33. ..of marketing openness and mutuality. Step 2 says: To avoid imbalances when opening electrical markets: a) Do not forbid agreements to issue electrical energy with free customers in another Member State if the customer is considered to be a free customer in both carts and to be a free customer. Then it's about that if you're defined as a free customer, on the other hand, in Iceland, for filming and then in Britain or Faeroe Islands or anywhere else, this is the case. ◯b) is permitted by the Commission, in cases where the trades described in the a- team are denied by the client's being only a free businessman in the second system, and taking into account the state of the market and common interests, the obligation of the non-contractor to handle the transactions requested by the member of the Member State in which the free client has settled. Which may give us insight into the fact that there is an attempt to remove an obstacle, so that even if you were defined as a free or bound customer on either side, this is not a reason to say that such an individual could not have such a relationship. However, if you meet conditions in both Member States, that you are a free customer, this authority should be established. As far as I can see, there's actually being under the rose of a sea cable, although this could apply to the infrastructure across the waters that do not lie in sea and to most of the sea, and in most cases, it will probably apply to that. But I would literally give it to 33. will be interpreted to base structures across sea borders as well. There is something else in Directive No. 72/2009, but I see that my time is running out, and I have to get to that in a second talk and pray that I may be added to a filing list for a future talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u306	President. Hv. A senator went very deeply into the duties that the induction will lay on the Icelanders, if I have reached the rights of the senator. Therefore, it is urgent to ask the senator if I am understood correctly that the rules he passed apply to all the infrastructures in all EU Member States, i.e. that the description he had here will be equal in Iceland, Norway, Germany, the Netherlands, etc., that's how I understood the senator. The next question, in effect, is about the warning we have seen. Does he accept this, considering the senator? He insists that Iceland is excluded from these rules, including Thirty-three. Which is the case, reserved for removing all obstacles so that the businessman, in this case, can actually buy or manage his energy as he watches? Is the guard we've seen in the Regulation, supported by the law of energy, or is he in charge of this, according to the senator's opinion? Has he been able to examine it? That's what I'm asking, based on what he's been considering so far, is it a warning against this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u307	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson very much for his counter-sponsore. The first question was, Did I believe that this applies to all the infrastructure above all the borders within the relationship? Now it may be, so I don't take too much into myself, that somewhere else there's something to be found that would make it a little out of control, but that would be a legal solution not to be found in this whole package, I believe. The spine in a pack of three is exactly this directive, and it is referred to in the relevant regulations. I see no better than when you look at the real aims of the Union on energy and cleaner energy, this applies to all the infrastructure across the border of at least electricity, because no. 73/2009 has to do with natural gas. There may be other restrictions. I haven't looked at that document as closely as I am. But as to whether our guardian is valid, I have come to believe that he is only in his home bridge. He is just so that we can at least have serious doubts about whether we're breaking a constitution, that it might be justified to go the way. It's just to say, "We're not breaking a constitution. " [[The president calls.]] It has nothing to do with whether the four energy package will be fully introduced or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u308	President. Is it not correct to remember that the interpretation of the greater part is, in fact, a postponement of whether the constitution is going on with it, ever making that a future problem? Perhaps this is because they realize that the so - called fourth energy package is a continuation of the third. Maybe it's because of something else. I don't realize that. However, it is important to find answers to questions that arise. A senator noted whether the articles mentioned by the senator put them on our shoulders that we cannot, in fact, inhibit or prevent the development of business, as the senator described. But I would like to reiterate what I've said earlier in speeches that it's important to watch the bigger picture, and the big picture is that we actually have two energy packs underneath us. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u309	There's nothing to blame for the senator. It was technical problems that made it clear that the time had come for red light.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u310	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator again for the answer. - I can feel you, like the poet said. I'm gonna let me take this as if it had a good time. A senator was trying to suggest that we wondered whether the delay in the administrative problem would be real, even if there was a will. Because they have said that there will be no sea cables here unless the Allied approval - the induction of a pack of energy makes it possible for this fourth addition to the European Economic Relations Convention and then become a national commitment which includes the upper scholar, i.e. This will be a national commitment, a higher law or justice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If there's any opinion, they'll be taken care of under the laws of the EFTA Court. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u311	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his excellent speech. There may be two things that I'd like to turn up here, but I believe both aspects are that of nature and that there is reason to discuss them much more detailed in the discussion here. Another factor is to call here a Swiss lawyer who seems to have had the intention of destabilizing the nation and weakening its resistance to the situation of asking her to be involved, in order to remain a member of this EEA partnership, as well as important to us. that we are to yield a portion of our authority and the sovereignty of the nation's energy resources. Of course, we need to know what was behind it. Of course, there must be some explaining of the interviewer's presentation, such a nice man who is traveling there, certainly and true. These include declarations such as that the issues discussed here are not of the sort that in these circumstances can be adopted by the joint committee. There are declarations that if we use our rights in a clear way in the contract itself, it can upset our position in this cooperation. Third, there are declarations that are subject to our position in this cooperation with Norway in particular. This might be true of a lot more than you have time here right now. But this is one of the things I would like to do. A senator left.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u312	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Unsolved Ísleifsson's great deal for this inquiry, because the opinion Carl Baudenbacher makes at the highest request. Secretary of state, then what happens. A foreign press committee will be filled with information, and the man is good, competent, and legal. However, his opinion of this word, which has been used extensively here, is expressed by this emergency antagonist, none of which are found in the European Economic Area Convention, no word to be found there, nor the silver ball that has been used in connection with this opinion, as well as such an obligation, of loyalty to the Norwegians, such. On the other hand, it is said to settle matters. It is spoken of in detail and in a very logical way as to how a case should come into play in this contract, how to follow it, in the introduction, and in the case of opinion, how to handle it. But one suggestion for the opinion that Iceland was too late for comments at its introduction. What, though, was the government counselor until this point? It was just the same person that he makes it clear in his opinion that he was a special adviser to the government of the case, Carl Baudenbacher. Is he qualified to give them that opinion after being a counselling lawyer in this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u313	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his reaction to my case earlier, where I discussed the need to speak more closely than I do on the subject of dedication, purpose, and compromise all around here to be given a Swiss lawyer, who I allow me to say has behaved his language in such a way that will not be better understood than that the objective is to weaken the people's resistance to the case and to create some kind of feeling of threat. I'm gonna take this opportunity and I'm gonna say my joy and joy. Chairman of the State Department and at the same time stressing the need to do so. The director is more active in the discussions and is here to comment on matters that require explanations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u314	Mr. President. The person who listens to a talk like that. A senator moved earlier could hardly allow himself to argue that this is not an up - to - date discussion. I wish there had been some of the members of the board or only some of those who are trying to force this case through and listen to a speech at the time. A senator, for he learns the very essence of the matter. And how does he do that? By simply examining the regulations, finding out what all of this really works out. We, for example, knew that, had realized the primary objective of this third energy package, which includes the energy package. to prevent any barrier to the European Union's major policy on transport systems and, in particular, linking with environmental energy, That is exactly what a very clear example of how far this will go in the regulations itself, which are expected here to be introduced by the General Assembly of Iceland. Because of what? A senator said that the same would likely be true of connections with sea cables and connections on land, yet I would add and perhaps ask for a reason. Senator: Does this not apply even further to sea cables, in view of the European Union, in description of the aims of the third energy package and the ACER in descriptions of the work of the Agency, particularly highlight the link between so-called isolated areas and specifically mention islands in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u315	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. It is now that you may be in a position to take up an explanation, a comment to regulations, to shed light on a matter because it simply does not listen to what we say and try to promote the matter of what is called in general language, so those Icelanders who watch a broadcast from this meeting understand well. It's just that kind of thing. But you might as well just read it up a stick because it's very clear. The difference between European politics and Iceland, however, is that there is no secret to this Regulation, not one. It's completely cloudy. And, as has been said at times, it is necessary to read such a text and to assume that it is not intended to put a sea cable here. It's specifically specified in a fourth energy package that we're supposed to be connected to Iceland. Thirty-three. Directive No. 72/2009 has completely gone over it. It doesn't stand a sea cable if people have been reading it with ◯Control/find. However, it is clear from the expression that the connection can be made. Those defined as free customers cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u316	Mr. President. Yes, it probably does not result from simply reading the regulations because I fear that the spokesmen of this case did not just do so, did not study the regulations, and were speaking to a case that they do not know what is going on. But there may also be reasons to look at the experience of the Norwegians, whom I've been discussing only in previous speeches but not able to complete, but I intend to continue to do so afterwards, they are just so worried that the European Union has the power to connect with e.g. For example, while Norway is already connected to the European energy system, they see reasons to set specific legal warnings to say that no more connections will be made, there will not be new connections to Norway without a warrant from Norway. In fact, this warning has not been acknowledged on the European Union. But how real danger is there!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u317	V.E.G. President. You see, this is very interesting. We have made a commitment to the European Economic Area Convention to speak with the other Member States with one voice when we take up a contract table and introduce new types in the contract against the European Union. But Norway has eight non-supervised warnings. Iceland is telling me, it's most clear, with two, it's getting pretty cool that there's no number, but Liechtenstein doesn't have one. And will they now claim that the EEA is the only language here, that they speak one thing against the European Union? - You can laugh at it because of me, but it's a serious matter we're talking about, i.e. that we speak here as a matter of speech. Or could it be that with this approval and induction, we would have had two kingdoms that had come into full induction, and Norway would be on its own? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u318	Mr. President. I mentioned earlier in my first speech that I would quote from the writings of my former senator, son of Jónasson. He gave a very good talk at a meeting in the East Field some ten days ago. There he considered three cases that concern the damage rights that are formed when the watchmen fail to observe. He gave me three examples that I'm going to tell you about. One was in Slovakia, which on very short terms concerned health matters. Volunteers were sentenced to pay $3 billion, as well as interest and legal cost to a company that claimed to have, and apparently had under the contract, the right to pursue its activities. Another example from Germany is that of a large multinational energy company that was involved in damages to the public, 647 billion dollars. plus loss of profit. So that was later. The third issue that Ögmundur gave is a matter known to us and to the import of raw unheated meat, where the commercial power in the country was sentenced to 3 billion in damages, which they have not yet returned to the public in a lower price. Ögmundur says - and now I want to go directly in his speech, with the permission of a president: But that's the way it is, and now we know what it should teach us. And so I ask when it comes to offering us the same tractors again, what do you think happens when a cable company that comes out of Iceland to Europe about a landline sues us taxpayers for standing in the way of a store with electricity that we've agreed to hear under the financial rights of a so-called, unhinking business, capital, labor, and safety. We've already agreed, and now we're in a field with a third energy package that, with electricity, should go just every other product, product, and not as basic services in society. This is the point. This is what these energy packages are going on. A Ögmundur continues, with president's permission: It's a pack of one and two men, and now a pack of three. Tomorrow, you'll be in a supply of four and five, the first one's ready, the last one is built. In many languages, we find a warning that the trees are not likely to be affected by man's ability to see the forests, that the smaller things prevent the discovery of the overall picture. That's exactly what's happened in this case. Of course, we are to examine individual trees as well as individual guards on our journey, but we must never forget where the journey is promised. She is promised to go to the marketplace with energy. There is a commitment that comes with consequences. We have to face this. A Ögmundur closes his speech with these words: The third energy package is now under way. Those who oppose are said to engage in spoken - language talk. That's what we're told on state radio. We are told that six groups of eight members of the Parliament's resolution proposal, closer to all members of the three members of the State Party, the Independence Party, the Foreign Party, and the movement of the campaign, as he calls their old party. - We know the Convergence, the Revolution and the Piranus are eager to accept. Then there's a central party and a party of the people. Thanks be to them and to all the others who may break out of their cells. Then he says, and this I read earlier: But it is so strange that when you discuss the matter between people, in the community, there is a whole different picture. The proportions are very different. There are people who chose the Independence Party, the Propulsion Party, and the Left Motion, in good faith, in a far different direction from their representatives of the General Assembly. What does this tell us, Mr. President? This tells us that this case should, of course, be above party politics. The point is to be that way, and we should win it so that the best models are put and pointed out how to do so. But those who make this case are so eager not to take part in making a mistake, it sounds like Rogers Rogers, at Halli and Laddi: I don't need a gun, [...] I never make a mistake. You see, it is human and good to make mistakes and learn from them. That's why I feel, and I'm kind of courting those who present this case, that they are looking for an agreement with us who have been speaking against the case in order to bring the facts back to normal answers, to send the case to the joint committee, and to get serious notices that will allow us to install this energy package without hurting ourselves. [[The president calls.]] Then there'd be a lot of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u319	President. Hv. A senator covered quite a few details about the reviews and writings of the former minister and senator, the Ögmundur of Jónasson, who has acted in the energy package speech, not just for all time, but for the rest of his life, I would like to say. Although we Ögmundur not agree on all things, we have often agreed to reach a mutual or similar conclusion. What I admire, however, is Ögmundur stability. You know where you've Ögmundur Jónasson his side in some matter and he's following it to the end, that's the introduction I've had of that fine man. It warns about the market of electricity. Unlike his party members in greens, or movement, he is concerned that this course will continue, such as the 107 council members in France who have protested that the French, French government, will succumb to pressure from the European Union on private or market water rights. Now we can ask ourselves, " Should Icelanders be going out of line, as the top of the board wants with this pack of energy, while in the European Union's heart there are doubts that it is right to continue on the proposed course? ' At the same time, however, it is as if the European Union's elected representatives do not penetrate the thick walls of the Finnish in Brussels, where the last ideas of the fourth energy package were to be revealed. You wonder, " Is it not necessary to encourage the members of the Council for the Left Animate, or the movement, to listen to their old mentor, Algmund Ögmundur? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u320	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator that the Ogmundur son of Jónasson is a hot man, absolutely, and he is princely bound. He was against the first and second energy packets, like his associates, who have now turned around and become the leading spokesmen of the markets of energy in Iceland today. It was different before, the old lady said. But this is just how we live. I have also before in speech, I don't quite remember when it was, since meetings have gone a long way, then I read exactly the words of Tómas Ingi Olrichur, a healthy independent former senator, secretary, and ambassador. In itself, he had just the same warning. This is because these fine men and others, e.g. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson and other former senators and ministers who experienced the induction of the first and second energy package saw where the wrong was done. They learned from the mistakes, other than they represented, or they meant agents, as Ögmundur called those who sit here at the council, and take no note and don't listen to anyone. They've decided that a pack of three energy is introduced, no matter what happens, no warning, or little. It's like people just don't care about it if I don't want to believe it. I agree with what. Senator, it's our duty to listen to a political trial ball. Of course, in this work it is such that we receive much counsel and then take our own stand and so be it. However, I've had ◯tendens◯ for the short time I've been in politics that when men of this club talk, you listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u321	President. Many of these things are strange when we begin to see that a group that teaches itself in the independence of the land takes decisive action to give it into pieces of foreign and supranational authority. On the other side is a group that ever wanted to protect the country's resources and have them in public service and that will probably benefit the public from the small money, taking part in the markets of the same energy today. We must ask ourselves, " What on earth does this happen and happen at the government table when it was decided? ' What is it that gets these groups that make up the present government? I'm not talking about the group in the middle of it, going on a journey here? What will cause the prince's hands to be removed just like that? Who drives it? Who is it, I don't mean to say profit from it, but who is it so important that men can bend away from all their princes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u322	Mr. President. Of course, we cannot answer this question, but many things creep in on us. They got here in the middle of the fourth-strike expert. When the minister of foreign affairs was in trouble, he sent for a specialist, very nice, out of the world, to frighten us with a cry, the European Union. There could be one part of it. The other part could be that men simply listened too much to officials with great respect for that class. It's one of the things we Middle Class have listed here, just usually in our policy, that we think politicians should rule, politicians shouldn't give their power to government officials, as bold as they are, because they're not authorized. No one has chosen them, and they do not have political responsibility. Therefore, they are not to govern political policies. It's the role of politicians. This I say in great humility, but not in presumptuousness. But that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u323	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I just want to think a little bit of a thought before I direct direct questions. Senator. If we reflect on this fourth pack of energy, the experience of the Norwegians, according to a report in that country, is that energy prices increased to major users, weakened the position of many occupations, and even pulled away from them. The main factors include the aluminium, iron, timber and paper industry. Perhaps we should consider the effects of a pack of four energy because I'm pretty sure it will be created here at a light speed when a pack of three is through. Then I'd like to ask you a few questions, since we're still in a pack of three. Two political parties have concluded against a pack of energy, but members of these political parties have completely changed their mind. Is there anything in the package that we are not informed about? Counts 'em out. A senator's failure to discern the scope of the matter? Is that why they change their mind? I'm just thinking about it because I think people are here doing their work whole-heartedly and I just think that there's an abnormal reversal between the national meetings of these classes and the events that occur at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u324	Mr. President. In a talk earlier in my discussion, I just read up the National Conference of the Independence Party on this subject and the central release of the Stage. Groups of both of these groups have taken a U-turn from these approved ones, and it was, using proben, on the basis of those approved groups that these groups run a campaign. They did not run a campaign under the heading: the third energy package. It wasn't like that. They ran their campaign against the princes that the Icelanders should have control over their energy resources. And as soon as they seek, groups of both of these run away from their promises. I put it this way earlier that these two classes, in themselves, had deceived their voters by walking like this. Without wanting any evil, I'd like to say that men will find that such a thing is not a good thing to do. You will find out in the next election that the voters will remember. They do not forget what belongs to them. I'd also like to say that, of course, you're not going to go through a case like this on some doubtful basis, but I can't deny that I'm predominant among those who support this case, I'm not talking about the insurance parties, I'm talking about the others, a lot of light in this matter, man just thinks it's a joke to run this case through in this way. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u325	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. The point may be, however, that the matter is not fully understood by members of the council. I think it's the whole thing. Let's say that a three-pack of energy will be suspended until the fall, will it affect the EEA deal? Will the induction of a three - pack of energy draw some diamonds afterwards? Does it matter if we do this right, I mean we wait a few months, or are we gonna put the case through like it's done today? I'm rolling it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u326	Mr. President. Here we come to a core object that's about the fear of those who want to introduce this package to believe in the EEA Convention. On the contrary to what man has claimed about the anti-instruction group, our objective is not to drag us out of the EEA Convention, reveal it, or sacrifice it in some way. However, we want the agreement between two parties to be all the higher, not just in some respects. There is a requirement in the contract that conflicts can be made, put them into reconciliation with the EEA Committee. People have said, "This was supposed to happen sooner. " It may be, but it was just supposed to happen sooner. We learn from it and do not let it work just because here and before, some minor fault might have been made. [[The president calls.]] We will not be bothered by that. We're doing it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u327	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for his speech and for the depth of attention he always shows in his talks here, especially on this matter. I would like to use this opportunity to pick up the subject. The senator's position was theirs. Congressmen who have presented their position on the energy package and their reasons for choosing to provide their power through it. That's why. Councilmen of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Árnason Arnam. They both, with President's permission, say that the energy package is an advantage for Icelanders because of the increased consumer protection and rules that contribute to an increase in competition and equality between parties, which should generally contribute to a lower price of ~ This was quoted by one of the authors. The other says that the package rules lead to an increase in consumer protection and to an increase in competition and equality that all contributes to lower costs. It's kind of the same text, so there's very mutual agreements in their opinion. It has now been discussed very closely on the part of us, which has been most concerned with these matters in the public talk since the recent popular convention that the objectives of the EEA Convention include: a balanced, simple balance that, in general, should lead to a land like ours, which has a low price, the result should be a higher price in time. Since then, these parties have pointed to consumer protection without any evidence of any lack in the country. They all seem to be on very narrow thongs, the perplexing reasons for the support of these whales. Senators on the package. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u328	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. First, I'm going to say that the deep focus of my speech this time belongs to my friend Algmund, the Ögmundur of Jónasson, so I don't decorate myself with borrowed feathers. These two fine dogs. Congress claims that homogenism can lead to lower energy prices than experience teaches us something else, that it teaches us that the source of a energy package alone and two increases the price of consumers in Iceland. This is what everybody's been saying, except what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who brought a tomb from the Haguen. However, the union between the bakers has been established, saying: Our electric account increased. Hv. A member of the group who still swallows his house by electricity has said: My energy bill was greatly increased by this, so I don't know what goes on so that right now, all of a sudden, the cost will be down. The consumer protection has been said to include others. in the ability to change energy sales. It's all the useful information that has come gradually into this discussion, and it's been shown that in the past year, if I remember correctly, or maybe it was 2017, 350 out of 400,000 homes in the country. They did not consider it to be worth it or to be worth going between companies for virtually no reward. This is in itself similar to Iceland's fuel market. We can practically get off a gas station at a gas station, and the difference is usually 10 bucks. Some stations have a better price, and for foreign competition, otherwise it is a uniform market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u329	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'll admit that when I was preparing the counter just before, I had in mind the fact that. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was in the hall. I would like to use this opportunity to call for her reaction to the discussion that her article appeared in the Morning Press has received here. Unfortunately, there's not been a long time in the town of Vilhjálmur the Árnason, but maybe later, it'll be an opportunity to have a discussion with him. In this article of Bryndís, there is a sentence that I would like to submit to. A senator. It interprets advertising messages showing pictures of young people as a challenge to senators to ensure that Iceland will remain a free, open, international society. What's the motive? A senator to meet such a challenge in the event of an interpretation. The senator is right, which I allow to question? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u330	V.E.G. President. I saw this commercial. I thought about her quite a bit. I took her message so that these young people wanted to promote international communication and business, just as we would like to be here to suppress this energy package. They do not want to isolate themselves. Neither do we. I took it as a challenge to continue our course, i.e. to promote globalization, not just Europeization - there is a difference - and to strengthen our relationship with all parts of the world. That's what we want to do. That's how I took it. To ensure freedom? I cannot think of the public living in Iceland as being free. I can't agree with that if that's the meaning of the sentence. I have to admit that I may not fully understand it, but if this is the meaning, I refuse that Icelanders will live with freedom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u331	Mr. President. All I want to do is enter this discussion about the increase in electrical prices for homes and businesses in the country. I think it is very necessary for the public to know the facts of the country and that those at home can see the impact of an energy package alone and two have had on the public at the same time as the members of the council who support this case have in their speech and are claiming that there was so much consumer protection that would have followed these energy bags, electrical prices dropped, etc. One truly came during the day, and I'm going to start, Mr. President, is to quote an article in Science from February 24, 2005. The headline is: Energy prices are rising due to energy law. With the permission of the president, let me quote the article in more detail, as follows: There is a growing prices in many countries because of a new electrical law forbidding a variety of specialities that used to be offered. [...] New energy laws produce higher energy prices for any number of consumers, such as to make small companies that previously enjoyed special farmers [...] Garden farmers are also victims of [the new] energy layer] as well as the number of landowners in the area to which I call attention to this - ◯ who use electricity for sexual reproduction. [...] The Stopr 2 News Office requested an explanation at Reykjavík's Power Institute on why the CDC had been dropped, and they received responses to the energy law did not allow such a taxation. We came to the core of the matter, the new energy law at the time, the input of a energy package one, made it possible for everyone to be shouldered, subsidies to house heating, special taxes to companies using electricity e.g. At night, at the bakery, and so on, were forbidden. So, it was Brussels who banned this taxation, and I say it here, Mr. President, I'm just saying, "What does Brussels have to do with us here in this oppressive country dropping and subsidating electricity to the public?" This only shows what we are undergoing by participating in this joint energy market in the European Union. Our situation here is very different from that of Europe, and it is more than tears, Mr. President, that we should receive some orders from above, as it were, how we should conduct these matters with us. I would like to mention another example, also in the February 2005 issue of Awake! It's the headline: Renal penitentiary in shock over twice the power bill. That's exactly the same story I was tracking from the other article, i.e. build-up power level increased. And consider, Mr. President, of four towns, in electrical bills from December 2004 to January 2005, the increase is 74%. The next town is 85%, and then there's another town where the increase is 96%. People see that these are natural, indistinguishable, and at the same time when the then industrial minister is involved, depending on what caused these increases, and whether they can explain them, the answer is that they believed that the house - to - house power should not be raised, so the government does not even know what they were doing. It has to be said at the moment that this work is quite different, and I think that exactly the same is going on now with this energy package, the government, the government and the people who support this proposal and submit to this EU directive, just don't know how this is going to develop, exactly how this works, exactly as they didn't have any idea when they underwent a energy package one or two. Mr. President. The facts of the matter must be expressed, and those who have argued otherwise that electrical prices have fallen - it is a good thing to share the wrong message with the common people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u332	Mr. President. Thank you. Birgir The Þórarinsson's offer to his speech and also the depth of his debate about the energy price because I know the senator's testimony is of his own experience. This experience, I know, his home on the Waterless Coast where society in that country may have had to, rather than the first energy package, shoulder a very significant burden to increase electricity prices, perhaps up to doubled, if I have understood the senator correctly. Rather, I wanted to say, the whole European Union, based on a state-based agreement and consistent effort, is what the European Economic Area would like to say. But to think that journalists are expected to have a pack of three energy will have the consequences that electrical prices for households and commercial companies will lower, that's part of the responsibility, I must allow myself to say. That's why it's very good to have a good time. A senator spoke as clearly as he did in that case. I'd like to call the senator's attention to the distribution of a document that seems to be a plan to implement Regulation 713, the European Parliament's Regulation means in Icelandic law, and it is found at the meeting of the State Department by Davíð Þór Björgvinsson in a way that would have no national value and was intended for home bridges. I might want some feedback. The senator's reaction to the fact that this lead has finally seen the day when I feel like an e - mail from my head. President of the State Department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u333	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who joins in giving him a heart - set to provide food for food and food. In fact, one member of the body has said that there is only a doll - this is what the government groups boast, that they have successfully solved this case, that it has no effect for us because there is no guarantee that there will be no sea cables for this country, except by the approval of the Councilship. That's what's stated in this Regulation, if I remember correctly. We have no idea if these models will come along because they have not been tested. However, there is another factor: All warnings are toxic to the European Union's bones. Most people in the administrative sector who have some contact with the European Union will have to admit that such warnings are not popular. But if they're on another board approved by the European Union it has to be legal. In this case, we have the EEA Convention, which has a certain legal way of going. The process would then be so that governments would express their concern that if we were connected, they were to introduce this directive on the grounds that we are not connected to the European market and that this could affect our power market. That's why we're looking for a release from this. This concerns us with the joint EEA committee, and as a result, we will hopefully reach a good conclusion and the understanding of the European Union, which will come back to this notice. [[The president calls.]] It's a legal way, not one of these way back home, as the government suggests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u334	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is noteworthy that in the document now distributed amongst members, it appears to be a plan for Regulation, which will be expected to be published by the Supreme Court. Industrial Minister in due course, on the implementation of Regulation No. 713/2009, but as you know, it is the most controversial form in this energy package. Also listed is Regulation 714 and also the same is the name d-d-d-d in Article 37. Directive No. 72/2009. This will show you how to implement Regulation 713. It's all traditional. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is done by regulations, by Ministers, and not by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u335	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right next door. A senator that first on a board was being taken this way, then it should be carried out by law. Of course, it's weaker than law. But the point is that we have not made any progress in this regard, whether in a law or in a law, and as has been named here on a platform in connection with this matter, the so - called raw meat matter is a crystal clear example of this. We are involved in the 2009 European Union food legislation, and we are concerned that we need to import raw meat into the country that may have a negative impact on our clean farms and our clean agriculture. Then, the day will come when the alarm we put in the import prohibition code, i.e. Let's put it on the freezer, don't even think anything. [[The president calls.]] These officers don't think unless they're gone, they're the legal way. [[The president calls.]] I think everyone's seen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u336	A respectable president. It was really shocking to hear the reading of the day. A senator earlier. I knew that there was nothing to define the claims of a energy packer that this could lead to a lower electrical price in the light of experience. I know how to film my own problems. A senator who alone was sufficient to prove the false records of a energy packager. But then there are some accounts that are, in my opinion, simply striking and telling me that these energy packages are not designed to improve the interests of the public or the Icelandic companies. And it's amazing that those who are now fighting for the third energy package simply use some radio points from the European Union, some points they use to promote this in their own countries, and men just translate it and rematch it here completely without the context of reality. Since we talk about the points and logical support of the European Union, it appears that there have been two main problems. On one hand, it was about providing more environmental energy and, on the other, more environmental protection from consumers. Is it not, however, that in Iceland it is both about its environmental energy reversal? putting the Icelandic, clean, environmental energy into a pot of coal? With respect to consumer protection, it's exactly a way to prevent it. A senator described earlier, that energy may be sold at a better price than elsewhere. So the European Union's main reason for this energy package is turning up in its resistance in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u337	Mr. President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. A senator in this regard. It's all turned up in its resistance. And as I mentioned above, it is more than tears that we need to act on what the European Union suggests and to tell us to do in these areas, such as. with the subsidies, that they're only forbidden. All specialities that are important to the public in the country, quality of life, being able to obtain low-cost energy - these terms are prohibited. It's a special term that's forbidden. It is similar to a European Union directive saying that swimming in Iceland would be too cheap and it would have to go up the ticket price to the swimming pools to the end of the canals to a minimum of 2,23,000. The label. So it's just a decline in quality of life. But this is exactly the same example, that we need to listen to it and apply what the European Union tells us about how to improve the standard of living in this country. It's all turned up in its resistance. That men are merely going through this without murmuring, Ministers. They don't even know what the electrical price will do to raise a lot. I remember especially when I examined the leading element of using a energy package one and two. Then I considered a letter that I received from the Ministry, where people are discussing these matters. The letter then states that it may be possible to make changes in these special arrangements - perhaps. So they didn't even know what this could do to the public. Still, we made this just as if it were nothing, and then we'll see what the consequences were. We are in exactly the same position now, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] We really do not know what this will do for us to produce a pack of three. But one thing is clear, this is a common market area where it cannot be accepted that there is some less cheap energy here than in any other part of Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u338	Mr. President. A cut on quality of life, that is probably the point. This is a battle to try to make progress through the Council of Production, which leads to a loss of quality of life in Iceland. And then it is reasoned in a way as imported as the energy package itself, i.e. with reason from outside, from the European Union, which in this country turns up into its opposite side. You're beginning to wonder if this is the case now, the third energy package; why would it be expected of this same government when it would be assigned to generate the fourth energy package? Would we not expect the same thing to be explained to us that we would have to introduce it because we had created the third and then they would take some points from the European Union and they would translate them and move here without regard to Icelandic conditions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u339	Mr. President. Of course, when it comes to a pack of four energy, you are concerned. I am absolutely convinced that then the points from the European Union will be on the way that we must help the European Union and Europeans in climate and we need to move to them with pure energy. So you can totally predict what this will be like, especially in this marketing area, that everyone must participate. And then there's, like, a cot. A senator rightly mentioned our pure energy into this pot. We've seen that a map has been drawn from Iceland to Europe. This has been stamped out, whether it is stamped by Brussels or anyone else. It must be done and must be done with the awareness and will of the European government, which shows that we are so important to the European Union because of this clean energy we have, it becomes increasingly valuable to the European Union, and therefore the European Union places so much emphasis on bringing this package because it is preparing for everything to come, that we transport our clean energy to Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u340	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I only came into it when I first heard another question. Councilmen where I discussed the likely effect on the introduction of a pack of four energy that is now available and discussed in Norway. The effect is to be taken into account by the permission of the president, streømprisene, and the industriens. The report makes it clear that the Norwegian government will not have control over the import and export of electricity or its prices. Price increases have already been observed in Norway following the induction of a two-pack of energy and a pack of three, and it seems to be the same way here, if I have just noticed in a talk by then. Senator. I was wondering if this is going to be any different in this country. I understood why. The senator so that energy prices have already gone up and the anticipated rise would be in the water. Maybe we don't even have to look to Norway. Hv. A senator said that the examples may be closer to us, even in time, if anything is, since we could quote that the so - called warnings were given when the frozen meat was being eaten. I think it's very interesting, and I want answers from what happened. A senator about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u341	Thank you. A senator for the record. As this directive is adopted at the council, it will immediately result in an increase in electricity prices because the so-called monitoring costs of the energy companies will rise by 45%. These companies have declared it in the State Department reviews that this rise will go into the prices. We don't know how much that increase will be, but it will go into the prices. There's only a law in this that when these companies are getting paid, it always goes into the prices. But then there is another component of this which targets energy activities, i.e. The transport of the energy within the country. The energy directive allows an enterprise to start working, as an example, on called windmills. That means getting the energy from these windmill gardens into the net. These companies don't care for the cost. It's at the expense of those who own the transport systems, in this case Landsnet. It is accompanied by a substantial cost. The cost will go directly to consumers. It's just like the other stuff. The transport costs of electricity will thus rise. There's nothing new about this. It's just a matter of market and demand law. It's important for these people who invest in this, to get their energy into the system. But it is also another matter, which is naturally worth just one Mass, as it is said, why you want to produce energy in this country, the new people who have sought the activation codes, who have sought to build windmill gardens, etc., because they don't intend to sell their energy here in the country because there is a greater demand in the system. [[The president calls.]] It tells us that they are waiting for the street to be paid to be sold to Europe, and that is what we do by introducing this package. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u342	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir man of Þórarinsson's son is very grateful for the answer. I further wondered, " I'm talking about activation permits and windmill parks,'that the last semester has been rising to 10 MWs. This is because such permission can be obtained without the need for environmental assessment. This has been a possibility since 2011. It's interesting to know if there's a problem. A senator has an idea of how much increase was made in these activation secrets and what they might lead to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u343	Mr. President. I don't know the exact number, but there's a considerable increase. I'd like to think so. paritaprevir Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson has asked what has been granted many permission. But the point is, there is a lot of interest in energy processing in Iceland. And like a cot. A senator correctly mentioned that at least 10 MWs do not have to have environmental assessment. That's gonna cut the whole thing a lot. Since then, we have heard that Norwegian people, funded by rural governments in Norway, are interested in building a windmill garden. It is investment funds that the rural communities are involved in Norway, which are very cautious in their investments, which are interested in building windmill gardens. It tells us that people see in this vast opportunity. Then you ask yourself: " If this energy package is not approved, are these companies being supporting themselves? [[The president calls.]] Is that why the pressure to accept this package is so great? [[The president calls.]] There may be a link between what is very interesting to examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u344	Mr. President. Iceland and I have had experience with it, even from recent times, that when it comes to the interests of an Icelandic nation, it provides a variety of events and tools that apparently have the goal of weakening the country's resistance to discouragement. Thus, it is seen that a political party employed here at the General Assembly is partly rooted in organizations founded with the intention of helping the Icelanders to see that it would be best for them to accept illegal requirements, which were eventually rejected by the EFTA Court. Calling a Swiss lawyer is a factor that has not been adequately discussed, but there will be no doubt about it in the future. The most detailed analysis I have ever seen is an editorial in the May 10 of the morning newspaper, which is set up in a narrative of the meeting of the Swiss attorney at a meeting of the State Department the day before, May 9. With the permission of a president, I intend to step down in this editorial of May 10th. It says, by permission of the president: Although Baudenbacher is a lawyer, the views he passed were no less political and political. This made his opinion of no less interesting, as he pulled out the position he thinks Iceland is in and the position he thinks the Norwegians are in. According to Baudenbacher, for a period of time, Iceland's rejection on the third energy package could play a critical role in the EU contract. This is not a legal opinion but primarily a political assessment, and it is based on the statement that the Norwayn view was always there in Norway that the EEA deal should be interpreted on the basis of a two - sided agreement between the Norwegian and the European Union where Iceland and Liechtenstein were in a sort of secondary role, as stated in a news report on mlbl.is yesterday. Baudenbacher also says, and is still in the place of the political layman rather than the lawyer, that Iceland is obliged to give Norway and Liechtenstein loyalty to the EEA community. ▪ Now that Liechtenstein and Norway have lifted governmental decisions, the states expect Iceland to do the same, to be told. It is explained in the following words, by permission of the president: Then he feels that Iceland is less likely to get an exception from the third energy package if the case goes back to the joint EEA following Iceland's rejection of a administrative notice. On the other hand, Iceland had the legal right to refuse to accept the third energy package, but Baudenbacher doesn't think it should be used properly. It is important to have another confirmation that Iceland does not have a legal obligation to say yes and to say no. But it is obvious that should Iceland be obliged to accept the energy package, the EEA deal would be in chaos, as is popular today, and it would be a real upset, but not the imagination alone.◯ I continue to quote the editorial, which says: However, the Baudenbacher's political evaluations are just as important, for he actually says that Iceland is viewed by the Norwegians as a clean addition to the EEA agreement and nothing but a branch from Norway. And if you read Baudenbacher's words, Iceland is actually a political obligation to accept whatever the Norwegian and the EU feel the idea of serving, whatever the EEA itself says. The law doesn't mean anything to them. Are members of Congress going to be pressured into approval with the third energy package on these grounds? They don't give anything to the independence of Iceland and the sovereignty? Then many will ask, What has been the cause of battle? So many words, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u345	Mr. President. The point. The senator mentioned, the groups that have had the goal of weakening the country's resistance, such as the case. A senator correctly put it, is a very strange figure, and is most affected by more than in Iceland. I am, for example. the opinion that there is trouble in Britain because of Bfenit, a passage out of the European Union, is largely due to such groups in countries that seem to use every opportunity to cut off the standing of their own countries because loyalty to the European Union is greater than to our own state. In this context, the wording is as slow as possible. A senator points to the importance of being somewhat striking in his loyalty to Norway. In any case, in 1262, I would have thought that all Icelanders should have agreed that this was over. But that may not be the case, for there are those who welcome such messages here. On the other hand, I want to point out and hear why. A senator's concern is whether it can be the same in Norway that those who are more interested in what happens in Brussels than in their country of origin want Iceland to be loyal to Norway. However, the Norwegian public and large part of the Norwegian Parliament believe that Iceland should protect its rights and its Norwegian people and this may always be the case with Iceland's strength within the EEA community as strong as Norway's.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u346	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Without having any expertise beyond any other human political situation in Norway, Gunnlaugsson agrees with his diagnosis and seems to me as his theory in this matter is very reasonable, that the country lies in the way he clearly described it. It is true to say that unpleasant memories are referred to as measures to weaken the country's resistance development and, in fact, that if they do, in the hands of foreign people, they will compromise their standing of the agreements of their own country. A meeting is held in organizations founded on the goal of trying to paralyze the nation to foreign demands that wanted to reflect on commitments to private banks to the Icelandic public, even if it required an unhearable burden, including. at interest costs to set up. They remember the media ops using custom shark advertisements that if you don't bend over, you just got swallowed up by a shark bottle of the foreign power. Of course, it is very uncomfortable, and the operation of calling a foreign lawyer who comes here and speaks in a way that is truly a matter of concern to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u347	President. Yeah, it's funny, and I agree with what. A senator is so much reminded of this time of propaganda, even the way he was put in motion, wording, terror, etc., and at the same time, people were using the same nickname as those who dared to criticize these developments. It was said of insulationists and plutoniums and of the idea of creating unrealistic expectations about what we could do as a nation, etc. It is sometimes as if history repeats itself and makes it difficult for humans to learn from it. In this case, however, the EEA Convention has established which resources are available for the Icelanders and are not set up as some sort of emergency or emergency measures, but as it is said, if I recall correctly, at least. in explanations, in a rather beautiful way as a means of reconciliation, i.e. We have the opportunity within this contract to communicate matters in a way that allows everyone to enjoy pleasure and not to pursue the interests or right of one nation to increase the benefit of others at their expense. That's why I'm incomprehensible not to be used by humans. But then the question: If we don't have the courage to take advantage of the resources that it provides and start to view it as some kind of awesome thing that Iceland and I must not be bothering, are we not supposed to be loyal to others? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u348	Mr. President. Icelanders have not been hesitant when it comes to international cooperation. They are founders of the Atlantic Alliance. We walked in EFTA in the 1970's, and we became members of the European Economic Area in the 1990's. Right after the second war, we established the institutions set up to restore the economy after the war. We are one of the 27 states founded at the World Bank and the World Bank Bank and the World Bank Cash Fund. We do so in the strength of our sovereignty, and as a nation, we are active participants in all this work. We do our part. In some areas, our contribution has been very important, I allow myself to say, especially in the area of security and protection. The situation is now that, by nature, we are expected to agree with certain types of products that will result in significant involvement in national energy resources, as the legal advisers of the government have so clearly described in the legal opinion available here as a body of Congress. If so, how different it is to run a simple contract! There are very simply great interests that governments are obliged to protect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u349	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator read from an editorial in the Morning Journal or by a letter of Reykjavík, which I do not remember when it was, in which it was well described, reviewing the text that was purchased by a secretary of the State or State Department of State when he was on the land or published in his own paper. In these words it is obvious that there is some kind of fear or fear that a person allows himself to object against what comes from the European Union or what is to be introduced into the European Economic Area Convention and the obligation of the EEA to enter its rights, that it is as good for the state to do it otherwise -- this is as if someone doesn't get candy that doesn't clean up in his room. It is to be obeyed, to care for worse. This is exactly what will undermine cooperation if one person allows himself to think or act like that. In fact, I don't think the European Union had anything to do with such threats to us up till now, and I have no reason to believe that this will be. Of course, the European Union, like others making contracts, would like to respect such agreements. As a result, this fear - inspiring propaganda is quite remarkable. It's so interesting that as soon as those who are supplied with this pack of energy, it's especially interesting if it comes from the executives, saying that the deal is upset if we do this, that we don't know what we're going to be in, we might be punished, in fact, in effect, that the government-president is in vain. If the government is meaningless, why are we setting it for granted if we are not going to have any warning because we are so afraid?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u350	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Of course, it is clear in this case that the government has shown in action, not just in word, but in action, that it does not feel that it is entirely safe to accept this package of energy. It shows this in practical ways by establishing the matter in a way that the energy package will be approved but legally paid for it. What is lacking in it is how this legal arrangement counters the national threat to the Icelanders. Now it is as if there is a plan for a document that is the production principle of industrial Ministers on the most widely discussed design, i.e. Regulation on the number 713 and date of 2009, the European Union Regulation is called or has at least one Member State's name. validation value. It must be implemented by this Regulation, 713, allowing it to be legal in Iceland and this must be done by the Regulation and in this Regulation prior to its use. I had the opportunity to ask a lot of Jurits, so I use that word, a great lawyer, Dr. Þór Björgvinsson's Davíð, at a meeting of the State Department on such a notice. He answered by saying that, of course, it was nothing; such a foreman would be reserved for a home bridge. At any given time, governments must be careful that the interests of their own people and the government must fulfill this role without the use of numbers in a way that has been somewhat addressed today, that of making the most dependent remarks about those who speak for such a government and teaching them in isolationism, not to be spoken of as po·po·ulʹsmism. [[The president calls.]] In fact, this part of this sermon has recently fallen, and I don't think it's the norm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u351	A respectable president. It is likely that if all the words that have fallen into this public discourse will have to be kept busy at the ethic. The alarm as fast as possible. The senator mentioned in his excellent speech, and he responds to the person listed here correctly regarding Regulation 713/2009. If this model is so important and so important, why doesn't it apply to 714? Because 714 is a requirement for access to electrical exchange networks across borders. It doesn't seem to depend on any advance. Why are you being warned about the Regulation on the matter of ACER alone, but not about the regulations involved in the content of the protocol? Is it because governments do not want it to be foreordained? Is it because they know that it is easier to sell that some kind of advance is being put on this international agency, although, of course, it is not really being put on notice? Why is this arrangement reserved for the warning? This is of utmost importance, for we need to ask ourselves, " If it's a choice, whether it's more important to be aware of the protocols or to be in charge of the Agency. ' I would have thought if there were any serious things involved, the government would have made a reservation about both of these types, but it doesn't seem to be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u352	Mr. President. It's very good to have a good time. A senator has named Regulation 714. It is certainly mentioned in the opinions of the Friðrik of the Árni and of Stefán Már. It is mentioned in the context that it may, as they say, rise up to a administrative point of opinion of the same level as they are so closely attributable on Regulation 713, which they clearly consider to be uninvolved to the range of opinions they are considering. They certainly raise up that Regulation 714 may apply to the same administrative issues as about 713. Question question. A senator's claim to be perfect is that he raises questions about why he is not put to the test at 714 just as he intends to do with 713. In fact, they also refer to a specific provision for an electronic directive that is now intended to be introduced, which is a factor of 37 gr. A directive that will now be 72/2009, which would also be a reason to keep an eye on Icelandic interests. This induction protocol has been distributed. I've mentioned earlier that it raises questions, first of all, why this is done by law, not by law, and also the fact that it is distributed among members of Congress. What is involved in this document that humans have been waiting for? Just nothing exactly. Nothing, no explanation, no text, no nothing, much less a legal analysis of the effectiveness of this warning and its national value in human perspective. [[The president calls.]] It's just not in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u353	V.E.G. President. I don't know exactly where to begin, but I'm gonna start in a good place, that's for sure. The third energy package stresses continuing to strengthen the internal market for electricity and the use of further measures to ensure sustainable, safe and competitive energy, as they say. In addition, the energy policy is linked to the 20/20-2000 targets I was talking about a few days ago. This means that by 2020 renewable energy sources are expected to provide the countries with at least 20% of energy needs, 20% increase energy efficiency and 20% of greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced. That's where it's called. According to this, it is important to consider the future sea cable layer. It is not unlikely, but it is even known that land induction will see on that occasion at great times, i.e. ... toput away from the country pure energy, in view of what I said just now, and especially through the use of excess energy that is in the system. This is because the system is isolated. This will also provide opportunities for a large contribution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and it is very important. To remind you, the chairman of gardening farmers has said in the morning that the induction could mean the end of a domestic garden because of an increase in electricity prices, which we have also discussed here. Already a detailed assessment of the sea cable fixes between Iceland and Britain has been made to evaluate the effects on Icelandic society and the prices of electricity development for households and businesses. You can find this if, as they say, people know how to Google. If we go a little further and further into the serious part of all this, we will look forward to an extensive energy production program according to the Norwegian law professor Peters T. Ørebechs, it will be crystal clear that the European Union's third energy package will result in ACER, the European Union's energy agency, reaching an international position in Iceland. It has been observed repeatedly in speeches, and it is quite remarkable that no one has responded in a reasonable and conclusive way that it is wrong. This means that the energy package will be overrun by the Icelandic law and will stand higher in a so-called legal respect. It actually means complete and vast energy power supply in Iceland. As a result, it would likely be that whatever laws and rules men may set regarding a possible prohibition on the fixation of sea cables I mentioned earlier would not be worth the paper. This is an even greater consequence of the induction of the third energy package. We've been talking about an increase in electricity prices for homes and companies. Let's not forget the companies. Power over the resource will be impaired and even lost. We don't even have energy policy in Iceland. Landactivation will be cut down because of the lack of competition, as it is strictly expected that after a cable has been laid on the European Union's terms, the switch to land activation will be required to be classified as an enterprise in a monomeristic position. Thus, there are some things that you can discuss and many that you will find answers to. I hope they're getting in on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u354	A respectable president. It's always a pleasure to have a president in a chair that you respect. Hv. A senator mentioned the garden of Eden and the warnings of those working there. It's a little special to experience it here in the house, and even in the hall that people are in amazement at the concern of gardeners or bakers. For both of these, this is a huge case in which they use a lot of electricity in their business. I'm going to let me claim that gardening, without I have an idea, is using more electricity than the others. That doesn't change, and it hasn't been objected, I'm saying that at least I haven't heard that it was protested from a speaker on the part of the followers of this energy package, to electrical prices e.g. to the gardeners will rise, and at the same time it is forbidden to subsidize the electricity by improving the increases that may occur because it is a violation of the other rules we have adopted and adopted. It remains that their concern for the induction is perfectly justified. We've noticed energy prices have been increased when these energy packages have been introduced. Therefore, concern is justified because experience shows us this. Furthermore, no one has really objected that energy prices will increase or that subsidies will not be permitted even if we know both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u355	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna flatter a president, but I'm gonna say something. A senator about him. If I turn around so that the point is clear that electricity prices will go up and it's true that it can't be allowed, and has not been allowed for a while, to subsidize energy prices, either in homes or in companies. We can argue that the situation is viewed as being equal. That means that me and the Icelanders are supposed to accept a higher energy price because we're going to be so equal to those in the European Union. I'm not sure it's possible, but it seems like we're just supposed to agree with everything that's on the table and have nothing to try to kick our feet in spite of our complete ability to see it in our hands that it's best for us if we could grow all our vegetables here. If this continues, it is because energy prices remain low, not because we all grow so equal that energy prices will rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u356	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. In fact, the detailed comments of an Ármannsson's annual lawyer who lives and works in Norway, that I think, are very detailed on why Iceland doesn't need and should not produce this energy package. For this reason, very detailed and sound reasoning is presented. Among the reasons the attorney feels that this method is incorporated in this way is because Iceland has no energy policy, that Iceland has not developed energy policies and is initiating EU energy policy by going this way. Of course, the legitimate reason has not been given to any debate in Iceland or the General, whether or not we are ready to make EU energy policy our energy policy. It is only then that the matter is not introduced or that it will not be settled until at least we have developed energy policy. At least that's the opinion of the one listed here. That's why there's something special going on with the energy policy that someone else has put in and that you're sliding, as you say when you're playing save or something like that, when you don't have any games. Doesn't the senator have any concern that we're already involved with the induction of the first and second energy directives and now a pack of three, if possible, have developed certain policies, standards, tools and the likes that we'll inevitably have to take into account the shape of our own energy policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u357	V.E.G. President. That's right, that's a very thorough review from Eyjof the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, and maybe it's a bitter thing to stand here and admit that it's a very serious situation. We've been discussing the lack of energy policy for Iceland before, and I'm sure we're all covering our companies, how we want our companies. Is it still to be on public property, or what do we want to do with them? As far as I know, we should keep them the way it is. Then we're discussing activation options, and we're beginning to discuss whether our activation options, so-called, will also be taken up and then submit to European standards and rules, and we just have nothing to say. I don't think that's an unusual question. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson to wonder if we are really taking up the EU energy policy, since we have not developed such a policy ourselves. As I told you earlier, one article in the morning newspaper that discussed this situation showed that we need energy policy. It would be wise if people would turn on the bulb and the media, they would often go deeper into what it means for the Icelandic people not to have energy policies than they intend to produce EU energy policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u358	Honorable, pleasant and wise President. I wonder what. A senator has come to realize the difference between the logic of the members of the board and the support of those who are trying to put this matter through the council, and to form a number of professionals, a support to the introduction of this energy package. On the one hand, we have a government that claims that this really has no effect, that it doesn't matter, that we just have to do this to do it, but then we're dangled by professional leaders, and we're using the exact opposite argument, so important because of the influence it has. That's where I mention, for example. The director of national activation, which outlined the need to agree with the third energy package to strengthen the national contracting status against the big industry's prices for energy. This cannot be interpreted as being so that by means of it the prices of electricity would rise, as we have been warning. Also, there are some professional leaders who proclaim this to be important for Europe to be able to use our environmental energy and to imagine that somewhere there is a profit chance in exporting that energy. Well, how does it match? A senator who at the same time tries to convince the government to persuade us to accept this just because this has no effect, and then professional drivers are telling us to accept it because it is so important and will have such an effect? I can't get this to work, no more than so many other things on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u359	V.E.G. President. It's an amazing thing to set it up like this, kind of funny if it's gone, that we have the parties and the other guys on the other side of the business. But the first group, the members of the government, are represented by the people of the United States, are at the Council for the Icelanders, and they make us believe that this will have no effect. At the same time, like the oar. On the contrary, a senator pointed out, telling the job life entirely, that this has a powerful effect, and that it is necessary to generate a pack of three. I wondered: " Have they read for their benefit? Have they read or read Carl Baudenbacher's opinion that came the other day and then interprets professional life as the Holy Truth, as so many executives seem to do, unfortunately? It's true that Europe needs energy and what's crying about it is that it's in Iceland. Even worse, Icelandic homes will have to pay for Europe's lack of clean energy. It's as simple as that, and I'd like to remind you once again that we're here with a board of directors who are at the National Parliament and that this has no effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u360	Mr. President. I fear that the professionals are actually right about the effects, but not the governments who are trying to get this deal through here, why the government is trying to back up the introduction, that we should introduce it because it has nothing to say. When I say that I fear that professional drivers are right about the effect, I am not talking about their claims that this is so positive, but that they are right that it will have considerable effect but that it will be an impact on the public in Iceland and, in fact, not the commercial world as a whole, because energy production has been such the basis of a multi-changing industry in many parts of the country. Here people have named gardeners and bakers, their conclusions for example, but in fact, energy has become extremely manageable to account for most of the sector in Iceland, for agriculture, fishing, as well as for the various services. If we lose the competitive advantage of a community that involves offering energy for the affordable price, losing the possibility of offering 100% pure energy, becoming part of some European energy source, and if claims that more than half of our energy is energy right in the future, it will damage both our image and us as a community, economicly, to a considerable degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u361	V.E.G. President. I understand that the job drivers are quite involved in going this way, but I wondered if they realize there is another way. There's a way to send a pack of energy to the European Commission, put up real warning about how we want to do things. Then we can accept it and take it back, and then we can imagine things being done on our terms. I wanted professionals to see it so that it would be good to do things on our terms and then I mean, on the basis of the people of the country and on the basis of the companies who rely on low energy prices. First thing. A senator named farmers, I don't know if it is a farmer's interest that their energy account increases to everything else they've been through right now just in the crapper, so it's going to hit them too. It's true that it's good to have some kind of competitive advantage, but I don't expect it to hold water, I want to say, because we're gonna be part of this European market and not forget that Europe needs pure energy. On what basis are we going to put things ahead? Is it on account of the European Union, or is it on our terms, our Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u362	Mr. President. I have endeavored to review the warnings set by the Norwegian Parliament due to the induction of the third energy package. I still haven't been able to complete this list because of the time I'm running out of, but I'm going on with this review right now. I'd like to let you know, though, that I haven't forgotten my first promise to do this, hopefully soon, especially about Cyprus, and the effect of that island on Europe's electricity system and how it sheds more light on the effects of the energy package in Iceland. I've come to the third warning from the Norwegians, who say: ▪ Norwegian, renewable energy production should contribute to increased resource and employment in Norway and will replace fossil fuels for renewable energy. This is one of the key issues we've been discussing in Iceland regarding the risks of this energy package, the things that the Norwegian senators obviously worry about, but we're either told we're not going to make a difference here or that selling energy abroad is the best thing to do. It is very strange if it is really the position of the Icelandic government that it should not be set aside in a way that Iceland's energy uses to create jobs here within the country and the values it brings. This is particularly peculiar in view of what available and relatively cheap energy has had a lot to say about the growth of national wealth and the maintenance of a nation around the country. The fact that we have had the potential to use our energy to protect the urban laws around the country has made a huge difference. The same is true in Norway, although it is not to the same degree as here, how do the Icelandic government not make such a warning when the Norwegian Parliament sees why it is necessary to ask for such an exception? Then a fourth warning by the Norwegians, who say somehow in a more loose way: The Norwegian government must self-monitoring all of the decisions important to energy security in Norway, including industrial and energy-related decisions. Why would the Norwegian be making thisjudgment? This is because they probably read the third energy package and realize what the consequences may be, at least Find out what goals are there described and what the aims of the ACER, the common energy agency of the European Union, should be. They are just monitoring these matters in the Member States. Then some might say, " But doesn't this all happen through ESAs? ' The answer is that at best it doesn't matter, for ESA role must only take over and enforce drag from ACER. Norwegians here court or seek to do so, that Norwegian government itself will oversee this monitoring of decisions that are important for energy security in Norway. Then some might say that this agent is not in harmony with the third energy package. No doubt it is the European Union's assessment that has not been made for 14 months to confirm that these superiors are relevant to the Norwegian people, even this has not answered the Norwegian conference. It must make us think, a respectable president, that we are not even answered when the Norwegian people take such a stand for notice. Why would that be so? I think we can all figure that out. Now I've only reached the fourth warning of the Norwegians, and my time has run out again. Therefore, I must ask your feasibility to register again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u363	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To his excellent review of those whom the Norwegians made with the third pack of energy, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was well aware of. He went over the third and fourth warning. I noticed in his review that the number four person in the case of each one. According to a senator, the Norwegian or Norwegian government is under independent supervision. In this regard, I would like to visit the European Commission, the European Energy Agency, ACER, or her ESA in the case of the EFTA states, how Norwegians can predict that they will have some independent supervision which is then entirely aside from the supervision proposed in the Directive under the European Energy Agency, whether or not. A senator knows how this company works in connection with the fact that, of course, it is the energy agency that is being monitored in a number of areas, and especially after the fourth energy package is introduced, how the interaction between this organisation I have mentioned is conducted in Norway or whether it is the priority. A senator usually mentioned something of value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u364	Mr. President. The Norwegians fear that the very existence of this problem will have no value, but they still hold on to hope because the Icelanders have not introduced the third energy package, and as a result they have not yet entered the EEA Convention. In the meantime, the Norwegians maintain this government with their own governments. That's exactly why it's a matter of interest to the Norwegians that the Icelanders have a chance to get the answers they've been waiting for for for 14 months from the European Union, the answer to whether or not they'll be accepted as an exception. But why should the European Union not answer? I guessed earlier that it was because it did not take any notice of this, and I'm sure it's the main reason, that doesn't seem worth the answer, but it is not known for such a one - sided notice. No doubt the European Union would also like to avoid seducing Norwegians with the truth while waiting for the induction in Iceland. I'm afraid this may be the business of the Norwegians digging up somewhere in Brussels when Iceland is in place, and then they'll answer and say, "No, you must realize there's no one named one-sided priority in this partnership or according to this deal. As a result, there are no doubt many Norwegians who hope that we Icelanders will protect not only our rights and interests in this matter but also Norway's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u365	Mr. President. Thank you. Gunnlaugsson The question I raised regarding the interaction of a member of the Watch Tower Society in the area expected by the Norwegians to be part of the national community. A senator named here with this fourth warning by the Norwegians, then called by the European Union Directive on electricity. Then I will think of the state of the Norwegian, and I will turn myself aside from it here. A member of Parliament, that the Norwegians are linked in many ways, and will be even more closely connected if plans are made for marine cables from Norway across the North Sea and also to Sweden and Denmark, where there is a very different environment today than there is in Iceland. Then I'll ask why. A senator can see the possibility that the Norwegians have on such leaves now when the fact is that they are connected, but not available, i.e. An exception to the European Union's rules we would like to not be subject to, i.e. possible exchange of electricity companies, which, of course, are in the country's most heavily activated. We want to keep it nationalized and profited from it within the country. It is likely in Norway that it will be replaced there and that the Norwegian may lose it. What do you think? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u366	A respectable president. The answer to that question may be found in subsequent warnings that I will consider in just another talk. But I hope a respectable president doesn't disagree with me even though I take a little advantage of being happy to respond. A senator who asks what difference might be involved in the fact that Norway is already connected with the European energy system and whether it can cause them more problems than Iceland is facing that are not connected. It is very interesting to look at the warning I intend to discuss afterwards that although Norway is already connected with this energy system with a navigating cable, Norway makes a special point that they themselves want to determine whether more sea cables will be laid. In other words, while already linked, they are concerned about what we have considered here, that ACER or other European institutions may be involved in the laying of a cable, promoting it, or removing any barriers that may exist. This concern still affects the Norwegians, even though they are already connected. Shouldn't we Icelanders worry them a lot more? What's going on with the third energy package? Yes, it goes on, especially, connecting new areas that are not connected to, in part, to improve connections in general, but specifically to contribute to the connection of sites that are not connected to the Internet. Yet, Norway has reason to be concerned that the European Union may be involved in additional connection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u367	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. For a discussion, Norway's people, or construction team, have been warned to accept the matter through the council and have somehow been out in the cold until now on this blessed notice. You are wondering if these eight officers of Norway have any greater value than this one company's company's company would like to put in our approval in Iceland, apart from the fact that this company is solely responsible for the second Regulation, i.e. 713 for the ACER Clinic, not for the protocol itself in Type 714. So I ask, " Do these warnings in themselves have any value? ' Does this not really refer primarily to home bridges, as some scholars have said? An experienced politician has said that it was an illusion. What, though, if they have no value? Besides, I ask: " Does the senator know of this political activity that is currently spending ten years at least if the one - sided warnings placed by any state have any value when it comes to the international contract table, i.e. where international agreements must be met? The reason I'm asking this is because we're under the EEA Convention to fulfill the responsibilities that we're going to assume once we've introduced. Then we cannot claim or say that we have received some warning that humans are to be recognized, as was the case with fresh meat in our day. Do laws and approved by both parties have any value?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u368	Mr. President. I want to start by answering the second question. I don't know any examples of such premonitions having anything to say. In fact, I recall the struggle with Icezave when the idea that Icelanders would add one - side warnings to the agreement that I thought good news would be caused by people because I knew that the evidence would never confirm that agreement. It came during the day, too. The evidence did not agree that the Icelandic government was going to put its own one - sided notice, and it went on. The agreement was not confirmed, and as a result, he returned to the council, and the rest of the story is known to men. We specifically asked about this warning, i.e. Anticipation of the EEA Treaty in general, at a meeting at the Foreign Affairs Committee, and those in charge of answers said they knew no examples of this. If they don't know, I don't think they can dig that up. As for the comparison between the so - called advance of Iceland and the ten Norwegian decisions, it seems to me that the same is true, that there is no hold in them, but the comparison is quite interesting, however, because the Norwegians have tried to show more concern or were more serious about looking for paroles or warnings than the Icelandic government, who have some vague warning in their reporting on a Congress decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u369	A respectable president. I made a brief talk earlier tonight only over the fourth energy package, which is called that beautiful name, by permission of President Clean energy for all Europeans, i.e. clean energy for all Europeans. In summary of the contents of this subcutaneous package, with permission of the President, Electrocity Market Design, i.e. The design of the market, as well as the design that we explain it, tells us. in translation, I've had a better translation of this, but I was trying to come up here today, with president's permission: ◯ACER will supervise the future over regional units and thereby prevent potential problems that could arise if some state began to control its affairs that could have negative consequences on energy markets and energy users. If this translation is correct, it is in line with what I used to do here earlier tonight, there is every reason to look at the warning the Norwegians tried to set, i.e. They would continue to control whether and how they place electrical cables, how they allow energy on these strings, and how they look at them. Based on the background of this fourth energy package, it is quite clear that the ACER aims to prevent any state from controlling its own affairs in a way that prevents the market from working. Is that what we want? I can't see that the bad guys we've seen here from the government are taking over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u370	Mr. President. It's all at the same well. This is all going to be a step in developing things that the European Union is working on, in the same old samurai method, that, gradually, the countries are becoming increasingly involved in the development that the European Union is working substantially and clearly, increasing its central control over Europe. This is especially true in two areas, in financial areas, including money, with the euro and all, and in the energy sector, which is a top priority for the European Union. Therefore, it should not be surprising that a pack of three energy and then a fourth is part of hard work. But that is why we must now resist. If we don't, the defenses become much weaker when it comes to the fourth energy package. As a matter of fact, it is an independent concern that the government's presentation and their logical support for the induction of the third energy package now can easily be turned in their hands when it comes to the fourth energy package and thus weakens Iceland's defenses. In the unlikely event that the government present will suddenly take a stand against the fourth energy package will simply say: "We remember how you presented the third energy package and it was only brilliant in your own eyes, but the European Union will say the same thing now, and you must want to be consistent, Icelandic government, and follow the promises you made when you created the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u371	Mr. President. I have already considered the lead story of our Icelanders, who, when I was preparing talks, was an informative reader for me. There I found much interesting in a historical context when considering the overall process. In my previous talks, I sought to link the much structure in that area in a relatively short time with other advances in the country and to mention the development of industry in the country, technological advancements, and improved quality of living, but most of all, and particularly, I linked it with regional development and funding. The rate of progress has actually increased in continuous rhythms with the power that has been activated and multiplied over a magically slow period of time, most in the last 50-◯60 years. It is not possible to discuss activation of the fallen waters without becoming aware that by the already activated force, approximately 2800 megawatts, including several steam - power activations, have reached the outer limits of the power sector, taking into account known natural bulbs. The remaining product is not so much exaggerated as to what we have already activated. Mr. President. If a human chooses to activate much more of the dropwaters, we have to deal with the fact that there are many natural bulbs that I doubt there will be any reconciliation to activate. All these remarkable developments have occurred in a short period of time. In fact, in the last 60 years, the largest part of the continuum transfunctioner has been built. Then, in my earlier talks, I have sought to link the past in the priming story to the present and to understand the feelings the people have for this resource in historical light. There I have stressed that the reconciliation that was achieved by going into these major mines, first through Burding, by taking bigger loans than there had been in the past, and by means of its distribution system, and by selling energy to the industry. Of course, that's where I mean the plant in Straumsvík back then. That decision may have had a deeper foundation than you might expect at first sight. Here I am referring to the fact that the people of the country agreed to take a risk on that basis, I think, later, when the loans were paid up, the people would benefit from a lower energy price. Perhaps that is why today, if people think that this resource is too much for the people in general who are to be in a national possession, such as Land activation, is a concern, and are at the head very much opposed to the fact that there will be someone other than the people in Iceland who should benefit from this resource. The more important it is, then, that such a big, important, dramatic matter as we speak at the Council is given as much discussion and observation as possible. There I refer to the European Union energy directive, which is the third in line. We should show no hesitation in taking the discussion any further if the people have not been persuaded to do what was supposed to be done. We have nothing to hesitate about, Mr. President. But that is exactly what the government is doing, saying that the matter is so well accomplished, and simply throws down any indication that some things need to be considered. Here I can judge our Middle Class questions about the legal warning that was said to make it safe to accept this matter. But then there's no such thing as this one, and at best, a friendly recommendation to Iceland's special status in this matter. Mr. President. The latest is, and then the stone is taken out, that it is now brought to light by regulations. [[The president calls.]] Now we've seen it, Mr. President, and what is it? I'll find it a lot better later. That's the Regulation given by the Minister. I'll be there in the next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u372	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. You wonder when you hear a speech like that, and when it comes to history, how amazing it is that in 2019 we're initiating rules from the European Union without having energy policy, a policy on how we see the future when it comes to national energy. As long as we do not have such policies, we, as the noble Ármannsson Eyolmanson has pointed out, are actually initiating the European Union's energy policy. This is hardly what led to man's efforts to facilitate resources for the country's benefit that a foreign national recovery would shape a nation's policy on how they were going to use their resources. But it seems to be. By continuing this induction of EU energy policy into the European Union, we are possible - I'm not going to say - to turn aside the opportunities we have to determine our own energy policy from our needs, our own expectations and, in fact, opportunities to shape the policy from the needs we feel will be most effective in the future. The power over energy policies is partly different. In view of what he has seen and heard about the subject, read the subject, and other matters, I would like to ask a senator: " Can this understanding be correct in view of what he has seen and heard? A senator went to an excellent conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u373	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the question. He's asking about power policy. In fact, she has been called out here on a talk during the General Assembly during the last days. Of course, it is strange in the highest sense that a nation as we belong to, with all this energy, which builds its well - being so much of its energy use for employment and has been doing for a long time, as I have thoroughly reviewed, has not a complete policy in these issues. Not only because of the falling water or the steam mains, but also for the future, to the activation initiatives that are obvious today, i.e. wind power, etc. Hv. A senator is wondering if they are waiting, if I correctly understood that the European Union's energy policy is taking place, and that we don't need any special energy policies in this country. I don't think that's what they're doing. There's no sea cable, maybe not quite in the immediate future. But I want to agree with what. Of course, a senator means that a nation that builds its produce so much on the use of falling water and steam power should have a complete and clear policy in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u374	A respectable president. There's some misunderstanding between me and the senators because there's nothing to wait for. We are implementing EU energy policy through the implementation of existing directives. In fact, I think, also, by implementing a second energy directive at the time, we have taken a major step in implementing the targets, expectations, policies and ideologies that the European Union has on a common energy market. Now we're taking even bigger steps. At the same time, by searching for ourselves, we have seen and printed information on a four - pack of energy that is closely related to the third. I will enter it in my second speech. While we do not have our own energy policy, the European Union's energy policy is automatically being adopted here. It comes on an assembly line through these types. There is something else I would like to ask the senator: When our energy policy is going to be apparent, is it not reasonable that it should take into account the overall needs of society, including our professional life? I particularly wanted to mention gardeners who have warned of a pack of energy, since they fear, normal, electrical surges. It has been shown that this induction has so far increased electricity prices. At the same time, it is clear that only broken the rules that can be complained to the surveillance agency regarding the payment of electricity. So, as soon as we're initiating the EU energy policy automatically, we're limiting the possibilities we have for that, for example. putting factors into our garden energy policy, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u375	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. You're right about what you're talking about. A senator when he puts it that, as we bring in more regulations and more detailed regulations from the European Union, the authority we have to make rules in this country is limited. He says we are already working on the EU energy policy. Of course, for some reason, we already have an energy package one so-called and energy package two and some of the rules here apply. In this respect it is true that part of the Union's energy policy has value here in the country, and maybe it's the point of the matter, and the food of the calf, that we are on our way in which we are moving in rapidly leading such a course that is prepared in a completely different environment and that has a completely different history and development than that of this country. I have spent a considerable amount of time reviewing how these developments have been developed here. Of course, it is in a far different way than the environment in Europe where there are millions of countries and far more energy sources, which are then not renewable, not nearly all, coal and nuclear power and everything, and owned by various parties, not just governments, but members of various private groups. We're in a completely different environment. It must be examined very closely if we are going to follow those nations some rules that may have absolutely nothing to do with this country, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u376	Mr. President. In the light of words, why? The senator here would like to ask him a question from an imaginary example: Let's say that national inactivation would be able to sell a certain amount of energy for making 140 million a year for a company abroad or into the common European energy pool, or to sell the same amount of energy to an enterprise on a country that makes up a decision, to invest in energy agreement, to sell the same amount of energy for 100 million a year, to 140 million from a country or only 100 million to this company within the country. Suppose the company was in the village, and after it had this energy contract, it would be necessary to hire 120 people to produce some product that was so much moved out of the country and, of course, returned with the money they owned, the 120 employees living in the village or rural areas around it and paying taxes to the rural communities where they lived and in the state's funds. According to this example, my country's activation would result in selling energy to this company in the Gangstering. But the question is, Which would be more practical, would the owners give more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u377	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson for this reflection on the different market opportunities. It is difficult to compare these examples, and not at all in my power to do so on some economic foundation, if at all. A senator has expected me to answer that way. There are so many other things that come in there, e.g. Social, domestic, national and tax from pay, etc. and the production. However, I may not be able to make such adjustments. Rather, it is better to answer, so that, of course, the best way for Landing to sell for 140 million is to 100 million. That's obvious. What I was worried about, and I thought that it was. A senator would be asking, is what would the European Union do in such a situation? What would it do if the foreign party or someone else were to sue such price on the basis of these plans? Now I haven't read them yet, but I suppose it would be called discrimination to sell the energy at a lower price than a yoke to the next man. I believe that this must be considered discrimination and that it would be in line to become a wealthed case. That brings us to something else, Mr. President, which is also interesting. If this is the future, which is rather obvious, if a cable comes, is there to run a business here at some subsidies?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u378	Mr. President. I'm sorry I haven't been clear enough about this case, but what? A senator learns exactly how difficult it would be to calculate all the factors that would result from the sale of electricity within the country, even if the sale was lower than what a national inactivation might get for selling out of the country. I would suggest that even if land reactivity was paid 40% higher for accessing the European energy market and being able to sell out the energy, the owner of Land Action would be the key to this, which is, of course, the Icelandic nation, in time, getting much more money for sales of this energy if sold within the country and would lead to more work and more taxpaying, etc. This would not be the only 100 million people in a national energy store, the taxpayers would come from those 120 employees who would not otherwise have been hired because the company had not started operating on land. There would also be tax returns from the various goods and services that these employees would buy. There would be a number of incomes derived from the side effects of this work of the imaginary fishing factory. After all, Mr. President, I would feel safe to assume that all of these additional factors are relevant. A senator mentioned -- which is certainly right, it is difficult to place a fixed number on them - in the end, it was worth much more to the owner of Landing, the public in Iceland than the 140 million that the company gets for selling energy out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u379	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. In many respects, I agree with many of those things. A senator presented national benefits. If the owner is the state itself, it can certainly be more practical to sell the goods even less expensive to those who offer to the community rather than sell them to foreign parties. I'm not gonna evaluate whether there is 40% or something like that, which was the difference between those two numbers he gave up. But I was wondering that if the same company, the cohesive crew, and somewhere out in Belgium, were producing the same product, then the manufacturer in Belgium or the Netherlands would be unhappy to have to pay more than the inside party and would probably sue it and it would be considered a discrimination. Nationalization would be made to increase the price to the national community. I was thinking about the obvious in this kind of environment, such a competitive environment, i.e. that even if the prices would be raised in this country to 140 million, and there would be 40 million extra, they may run out of a government fund as fast as subsidies to the company. I'm asking if it's allowed under European rules. Or are we in some sort of vicious circle if we went into this, and here might it be no good to run a lot of jobs today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u380	A respectable president. After I saw on the European Union's web that what they call "Clean energy for All Europeans" was published, i.e. I've approved this package, a great name for the fourth energy package, I've been able to figure out what's in all of this. By permission of the President, I would like to read a very brief translation of a chapter called in the English language Eternity Market Design, i.e. The effectiveness or design of the energy market. There are a lot of detailed details if you go deep enough. By permission of the president, this is what this so - called design of the energy market says: One of the main objectives of clean energy for the entire European population is to update and transform the structure into the European electricity market according to the changes in energy in recent years and will be in the years to come. So it's a long-term, respectable president, who's being submitted. Then it says: It is estimated that energy from renewable energy sources will increase from 25% to more than 50% in 2030, and therefore the EU rules will need to be updated to bring this new team into the Regulation. That, in fact, is what the Bible But while the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow, energy needs to be produced in order to meet the demand. The market must be added to meet the needs of renewable energy and other investments, e.g. on energy chambers, and to offset different amounts of energy production. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: ▪ Targets also need to be properly encouraged to enable consumers to maintain energy stability. In order to initiate this, the European Union has done the following things:- This is only under this section, which is called the Efficacy or Design of the Energy market - ◯ Updated Regulations 72/2009 and 714/2009, set up a new Risk Management Regulation called in English Risk Support - ◯and increase the role of ACER. A respectable president. Here's a list of what was published today of what we're doing here tonight. In other words, updates and changes in regulation of 72/2009 and 714/2009 have been agreed and the role of the ACER organisation has been changed and a new risk management principle has been set. It is reasonable to ask yourself, a respectable president, if the members of the council will not stop and see what this report implies. What is being updated and changed? Once we've introduced these types here, it'll be hard for us to say that we're not going to introduce the updated information ready from the European Union. Is it possible that they should have what? Congress members of this case have already received some presentation on what is in the pipe, what is to be agreed with, and what should we consider? Then we will discuss the process in which this is going to take place. I read it only: The new directives adopted in May 2019, were based on the Clean Energy for all the Europeans package published in November 2016. They will be published in the EU's EU Environmental Journal, their legal code, and will be valid in the summer of 2019, and the European countries will have 18 months to make these new provisions for national law. Is there anything in addition to this, or what I listed earlier, that we need to consider? There's something we have to wonder about, because it also states that the ACER Institute will gain greater power and power. There is evidence that the rules we have so much doubt that today's introduction will be changed. No one needs to tell me, more respected President, that they will be retraced and reinvigorated, or they will be powered by these co - European institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u381	Mr. President. What a thrill it was to hear that reading loudly! A senator has literally brand new information, things that are happening right now, and he cares about what we're talking about here at the same time at the council. These are things we have not been warned of and do not seem to be willing to take into account before deciding whether or in what way this directive is being introduced. But it is not just this Regulation No. Seventy-two. A senator mentioned. Know what I'm sayin'? Senator on Regulation No. 347/2013? It involves changes to the 713 and 713 regulations we are discussing here, and just as it is. A senator read earlier when it was designed to increase the power of ACER and increase the European Union's central regulation on energy. Are not handing out the cards gradually more? Except what the Icelandic government seems to want to keep us from seeing the data card. What a concern for me and the general members of the council today! In Regulation 347/2013, which I mentioned, are so definitively set up on ACER's authority that it cannot be claimed after reading that the purpose is not to ensure increased political control over Europe's energy sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u382	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator, what I studied in my earlier speech, is brand-new, at least to the members of our council, who have been discussing this matter. However, this is not entirely new to the work group that has been working on the State Department on this matter. Not all of this is new to local interest groups who have received a preview or presentation. Warning of part of the fourth energy package in its headlines, such as the industrial organization. But it's brand new to us, that's exactly right, and that's the information we're getting ourselves, not that the government has right for us. Order 347/2013? I've heard of it, yes. You're absolutely right. A senator points out, there is still taking larger or greater steps toward media control. It's a little difficult for us senators who don't get Congress members or those who want to introduce this package to talk to us to explain to us whether they know what it means to be updated in the months that we are doing on the inside. For example, there is nothing to say that we cannot pause and postpone the case while we are realizing it. We can direct this into the legal process. Why do members of the board and supporters of this matter not want to examine these influences that are so obvious? They're already out, they've been published.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u383	Mr. President. You can hardly conclude that the core and the assistant groups do not want to publish this information because they think they are likely to reduce the aim of achieving this energy package and allow it to happen quickly. Then there must be the same explanation for why. The members of the board do not trust to comment directly on the effect of these changes. Can anyone think of a government trying to run this third energy package through the way this administration does, and would like to talk about it in the night, suddenly take over when the energy package was created, saying, "No, no, we were ready to introduce the main issue, but we're not going to accept these changes? It would certainly be a bit difficult, I would think, for the government to face the European Union and say, "Yes, yes, of course, we knew about all this and what it was like to develop, but when we decided to introduce it, we just intended to bring in what had come, not the changes we knew about. How does that count? A senator's accepting such support would be as unlikely as it would be by the government? Is there an example that can help you answer the question about the need to continue in the same course with the former efforts of the Icelandic government during its induction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u384	A respectable president. It will not be appreciated if the Icelandic government introduces the joint EEA committee after, for example. Two years and say, "We didn't quite understand what we were doing there, 2019 when we introduced a pack of three. We thought it was totally different, and we just can't keep doing this. The answers will be exactly the same as the implementation of one of the energy directives, an energy package two, when the rejection of this particular process was based on the fact that we introduced that energy directive so impressive and beyond expectations. It is clear that if they are going to respond, they must do so now. And it's also very irresponsible, I'm going to allow myself to use that word, for the followers of this case not to analyze the autopsy and to benefit from what it means to start this process that follows a pack of three energy based on what is contained in a pack of four. What's happening? Although it takes a month or two years to come in here on our table, it's clear what's in the pipes, and it's supposed to be an incentive for the members of the board to be concerned with the Constitution, sales of power, the energy policy of Iceland, because we're using types that may give us some sort of decision-making rights about something that has to do with our energy issues. It's supposed to worry them. They should insist that this be presented to them and published and analyzed before accepting a pack of three. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u385	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for his fine speech, in which he introduced several things that are new to me, i.e. that there are already some suggestions for changing the regulations we are implementing, Regulations 713 and 714 and that they are taking place in the process. There are certain reports for us in this way that there is an increase in energy management in the European Union as well as in the EEA, also that ACER's power is being increased beyond what we are discussing in this package. He wondered, " Will the government, Mr. President, be willing to stand up when this comes on the subject of this discussion? ' Will the United States rather stand up at that time than at present? I didn't mean to ask. The senator's question, whether they're likely to be, is it not my intention, but I'm asking. A senator does not agree with me that now is the time to resist, and do not let this spill on us much longer or more than we already have on the basis of many factors that we have mentioned, such as the unique status of energy markets in Iceland. It's a small market, a lot of energy, the government market and the distribution system. Does he agree with me that it is now time to resist but not later? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u386	A respectable president. It is very important for me to know that we are staying now, especially in the light of the fact that what we are about to get on the table in order to dissect within not so long. It may well be that governments think that there will be a new election period and maybe a new government that needs to deal with it, I have no idea, everything takes time for the European Union. Still, we cannot pretend that the matter is that simple. It is stated in what was placed on the Internet today by the European Union that it should be updated and carefully adjusted. The senators now wish to introduce them. They should be modified and updated, yet it is not a matter of concern to humans. They act as if it wasn't even a matter of any importance, that it's a minor matter for Iceland. Of course, this is not trivial, for if we produce a pack of three of energy as it now looks, we will produce the types on an invitation. We will not receive permanent leave from the important things, and after a month it will be impossible to come and say, "We need an access, it's too much. The Constitution does not allow us to go further in this direction, etc. It's just gonna be too late for my knowledge, but it may well be that you want to take that chance. I don't want to. I think it's normal to dissect the whole thing, since we can do it. It might be otherwise if we were not able to do so, if we had not yet worked in the future. But I sure don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u387	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I also wondered about the purpose of this directive by the European Union, considering that the energy market in Europe is quite different from that of contaminated energy in Iceland. The purpose is in itself good. That's what I'm talking about. A senator I don't agree on that? The purpose is to increase the importance of renewable energy in Europe. That's the point. And it also requires breaking down various European walls, breaking down big companies, opening up new avenues for the distribution system so that these renewable energy sources can freely flow through Europe in an effort to eliminate the unwanted. Everyone sees that this is very different from what we're getting used to in Iceland. But this is the point, and he's good. That's not what we're talking about. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether he prefers to postpone the case and its coverage at the General Assembly, consider it better, and then take it back by the fall, or whether the senator is more likely to end the case and then go to the joint EEA committee as expected in the contract to be the right way. It would be searched for an exception because these conditions are completely different from those in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u388	A respectable president. That is a question worth considering, which way is best to go. I'd rather be afraid that the government somehow bit it up, the Ministers who handle the case, the Foreign Minister and Minister, that it must drive the case through now, it just has to get through without necessarily being able to reason with us why it has to happen right now. If men shy away from using the legal record that is referring the case to the joint EEA committee, I think it is only natural to postpone it. There's only good reasons for that, too. Although heads may be counted and said that the case could be passed through the General Assembly, we know that much of the nation does not want us to do this. I think that part of the nation would be willing to take a closer look, to use summer to find out what steps we are taking, and what lies ahead. It's at the table what's ahead. It may also be concluded that if the government explained very seriously to the other EFTA countries and the European Commission the dilemma that exists in Iceland for this issue, we could not rule out that there would be an agreement to go over the matter again, that it would not have to be taken into the legal process, but could be settled down and tried to find a diplomatic solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u389	Mr. President. I will continue my review of the warning of the Norwegian Parliament on this third energy package. I think it's very important that we look into this in our discussion, and, actually, it's quite strange to read these warnings and, in view of the importance of it in the Norwegian council, that we have not considered this more or rather said that the government has not discussed this more when they presented the third energy package and the Synod proposal to introduce it and, in fact, completely ignore it. This was seen in an earlier question period to the highest level of the day. The secretary of finance seemed hardly aware of this warning or its contents. Therefore, there is good reason to explain the nature of the matter and also the discussion in Norway that is undeniably related to the discussion here because we are with the Norwegian participants in this EEA community and EFTA. The fifth warning is as follows: Decisions for a new foreign cable will remain the decision of the Norwegian government. Experience with two previously laid or submitted cables should be considered before any new foreign connection can be taken into account. This is an important point, this company's leader, particularly in the context of Iceland's discussion that there may be a risk that the European Union or the ACER on behalf of it will contribute to the laying of a sea cable to Iceland, seeking to remove barriers. The reason this is so remarkable in connection with Iceland is that, as indicated here, Norway is already linked to this European energy network, but in spite of this, the Norwegians still believe that it is a reason to install such a warning. What is more likely when you study the progress of this energy package, that the European Union provides links to unconnected land, or that the European Union uses to get a third link to a country already connected to it? The answer is given because the primary objective is to connect new countries and, in fact, specifically, mention islands, link electrical systems that have been isolated from the large system. To this end, the European Union is prepared to contribute, ready to monitor the progress of governments in other countries and to eliminate any barriers that may be involved. So you would think there would be a considerably higher chance of such European intervention with Iceland and possible linking here than with Norway and Norway's third link to Europe's electricity system. Yet, the Norwegians still feel it is important to put this warning in there. And the sixth warning shall be, The new cables shall be a nation's practical gain, and shall give wages for society. The Norwegians believe that it is important to make sure that a potential sea cable, possibly a sea cable, is designed to leave money in the Norwegian community. In other words, they fear that e.g. Some foreign investors might want to connect Norway and take the benefits of this project and that it would not be left in Norway. They are trying to protect Norwegian interests, the interests Norway has of its energy production. This is something that many of the people here, including the government, seem to have been shy about saying aloud, that we need to take steps to ensure that the benefits, profits, remain in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u390	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Don't get worse, I'll tell you, they'll get better. Now we've got a what? A senator made a few talks with the theme of reviewing Norway's warning. I've been hanging out looking at Carl Baudenbacher's legal opinion about how we Icelanders should be more concerned with this. He thinks it's the monopoly, saw a man present, that there's no way for us Icelanders to go to the joint EEA committee for confirmation there of our understanding. But Norwegians with some experience in this administration have taken the lead in trying to warn against something they've already done, i.e. Norway has been connected to the European electricity system and is already a part of this inner market. This would be like what we would now want to put in a few extra advances, say the Homological Law, or something like that. Is it correct to understand that this is even more advanced than what we have suggested here, to represent the joint EEA Commission simply as the European Economic Committee states that it should be done before men come in when such a thing may not be completely satisfied with what is being offered?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u391	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear that. A senator believes that the Norwegian advance talks do not get worse. I can tell him it's at least alone, and hopefully the talks will reach a new climax, ending a powerful warning there that sheds a new light on the whole thing. But about a question why. The senator is the key to the implementation of the Norwegians of this third energy package, that this induction does not work for Norway until all EEA countries, i.e. The three EEA countries that are in EFTA have already been introduced. As a result, they may not be tested until Iceland has been introduced. This causes quite a conflict in Norway, where many put their hopes in Iceland, to help the Norwegians now get the case together to the EEA committee so that they can confirm their findings. It has not been received from the European Union to this point, while others in Norway only call them Europeanists, who are now numerous among officials, although they are not a large part of the nation, Europeans of Norway, may still want Iceland to refer the case to the common EEA Commission for this very reason that they would have the opportunity to test Norway. Therefore, what we're discussing here tonight is not just a big interest in Iceland, it's also a big interest for the Norwegians that they get the opportunity for the joint EEA Commission to get a warning or a holding out of service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u392	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, it's what you've experienced in this conversation, that there's actually the Norwegian people, as you experience from Iceland, who have been in great contact with us and are living in Norway, that people are hoping that Iceland will get up because Norway's contract has been weaker than Iceland where they've been connected before, they've been connected before. It's been harder for Norway to put such notice there on the common EEA committee. But it could save by a corner if Iceland was to get up because the induction would not take effect if all the countries don't, they should talk in one voice. Counts 'em out. A senator that I may have the right opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u393	Mr. President. I think it's a perfectly accurate assessment. It should be easier for Iceland to look for parole on its terms than for the Norwegian in view of that, like a rough. A senator notes that Norway is already connected, just as Iceland has received an exception from the geothermal directives, or the Regulation. Iceland is not already connected to electrical energy, so it should also have been possible to have an exception in this regard. But because the Norwegians have become more attached to the development of fusion in Europe because of these connections, they may have to rely on Iceland's entrance to the case, and there is nothing wrong with us that the Norwegians are giving at the same time the opportunity to get their solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u394	Mr. President. I heard most of the talk coming from you. A senator was impressed. About 15 minutes before this discussion began, the State Department of State began to be fed, attended a fine scholar, Dr. Carl Baudenbacher, and moved here to Iceland to tell the Icelands how dangerous it would be if they didn't enter this package, the third energy package. Now this fine man has great respect, and only a good thing about it, although his report is a little shot by politicians as well. It's just like some of the legal candidates who had earlier come to terms with the English language that threw away the scholar's hammer and the judge's coat and for a while became politicians. It's all human, but what I thought was in terms of what this fine man had written on what basis he warned the Icelanders that it might be very bad if they didn't pick up this model, i.e. that the Norwegians were very stressed and that the European Union would go into a mess if we didn't do this. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is, in his view, a realistic assessment of the fact that the wise scholar came home, whether this theory of mine is quite correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u395	Mr. President. I know Carl Baudenbacher very well. I'd even call him my friend. It's a fine man and a brilliant lawyer, but I don't agree with him in politics, it's perfectly clear, and most certainly in Europe. I would have thought that the members of Congress and ministers of the Independence Party, the forwarding party, and even the left green would not agree with Carli Baudenbacher in political and European affairs. Nevertheless, he is called to give an opinion that is largely in nature, perhaps primarily political. A senator came in just a bit. It tells of its own story, which is actually calling for political recognition, much more so that it should have been a delight for members of the reveries or members of the United States. I would have understood if the ministers from those categories had called for such a opinion from Carli Baudenbacher. One thing he brings up is reasoning, such as why. A senator said that the European Union might be offended. That was no new news for us. Anyone who has had any contact with that coalition knows that this is not a good thing for a person to seek out an exception or such. So are the Norwegians, well to hardly all Norwegians, I think that there is mainly a certain group of government officials in Norway, and in this context it was noted that the Icelanders would have to be loyal to the Norwegians in this cooperation, while the Norse considered Icelanders to be a sort of extra part of the EES Convention. It is a natural attitude that we cannot accept. In this regard, we need to be absolutely clear on the fact that Iceland is a partner in the EEA on equal terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u396	Mr. President. Thank you. For this answer, a senator confirms in itself what I had imagined. I also found that it was quite unusual to have this fine specialist in the country to see that it was all over and that it was almost feeding, as so much as it is. There are so many things in this case that seem to have been published. I tend to worry about when big issues are going to be done in a hurry, apparently without much discussion and with serious attention to the consequences of such a situation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he would agree with me on this matter that would require much more discussion. And while our discussion here is very valid, I ask: " Won't this case need a much better discussion, since the followers of the case took the matter into account and tried to reason with it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u397	Mr. President. It has hardly been overlooked by anyone who has followed this discussion that this matter truly needs more discussion. So, what have we ever been trying to do about the nature of this case here? We have dug up the warning of the Norwegian Congress, which the Icelandic government seemed to hide from us. Yesterday, we saw sparks in the fourth energy package and the effects he might have on Iceland following the induction of the third. And now it may be said that we may have dug that energy package up after a new exposure. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, just now, who, of course, are far from mature. He has informed the council that this fourth package of energy has just been completed and has begun to inform us about its nature. Of course, that leads to a question - I'm going to apologize to a respectable president, I didn't realize that one more time was broken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u398	It's been a while, so did the President, but I think it's all gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u399	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Norwegian advance that appears to be taken in a small way by the European Union has been discussed by Davíð Gunnlaugsson as compared with what we know about the matter up to now. Similarly, if it is true, we have received the information that they have not yet been brought into Norwegian law, which, if I recall, was one of the conditions of the Labour Party. I think it was last summer, I think I mentioned it earlier tonight or today, which came here to the Norwegian Minister and went into the country with the Icelandic Foreign Minister. They were filmed there in the hearing, and the occasion was to be a polite visit, a discussion about Norwegian hay, and something like that. Of course, the motive for the energy package and the Norwegian pressure to finish it was. I'm well aware that there was considerable pressure on the European secretary and business minister of Norway in its time to get Iceland into the process of implementing this. In Norway, they seem to drive the case forward with the desire for Norway to continue in the European Union. You wonder why it is, probably because they believe that the entrance will be accelerated in some way. Could it really be that the government groups, at least for a time, were known for opposition to the European Union at once to speed up access if the unlikely possibility of someone attempting to do so in the future? What explains the pressure in the Norwegian government over this energy package in Iceland? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u400	Mr. President. The Norwegian government, which is more Europeanized, worked hard to get the energy package through the Norwegian Parliament and, as a result, accepted this warning that some might claim, especially the Norwegian Middle East, was a delusion to get senators to pass the case over even though these Norwegian reserves were certainly far more thorough. Then I imagine that the Norwegian government, I'm not talking about the government's office or the Ministry of State, worrying that if you go back to the joint of the EEA committee, you're doing this for a fund, i.e. The campaign was put into place for members of the Parliament at the Assembly Hall. It was difficult in this case, many of them moved away to the mountains, probably with the backpack on their back, but it was achieved by enough senators to pass the case over against the government's approval of this warning. Now people are beginning to have serious doubts about the fact that there is no one involved. They have been waiting 14 months for the European Union to answer and confirm their relevance. They have not yet been led into laws, as promised. Then you can just assume that the Norwegian government, which was in deep trouble with putting the case through, doesn't want to face the challenge of getting the case back in and that because of that, we're meeting like the meeting at the base roll. I don't think any human would think a Norwegian minister would come to Iceland to try to buy some hay, so I think it's safe to assume that it is safe to do so. A senator was right that something more prepared for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u401	A respectable president. I'm a little surprised at how this all develops. Here we will discuss the warning given by the Norwegian Labour Party, which you would have thought was a rather left - handed category of activity put through. In Iceland, we've made some amazing notice that I haven't heard any scholar say it's a real priority. That seems to be enough for Icelandic political parties, many of them, certainly not all of them, alone in letting this go through. What happened to the prince before, for example. Why fight the market of the energy that the left has ever experienced? ASI has concluded against this. One of the top advisers in the labor sector, Ögmundur Jónasson, has spoken against this as the People's Union. Why is this so important? Is it because they've realized that all the group members are going to help them finish the case here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u402	Mr. President. This is a point I've been thinking a lot about, including because the Norwegian think themselves, like a whale. A senator mentioned, relatively left - minded and environmentally oriented in his or her own way, which is usually because they don't want to activate anything in Iceland. Both should be designed to make the left green a great array against the induction of this energy package. The problem seems to be that the left movement has completely separated from the roots of the class, e.g. is rooted in the labor movement, or is lost. Instead, it has become a system class, a class that follows the direction of the system, but it would like to have access to one of its special concerns, such as the latest cases from the highest level. Consider the case of a health minister. There the rest of the government groups continued to move forward, and would not the left - green have to repay the favor?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u403	A respectable president. I'm going to do again one of my talks stop at my speech series, which I like to call and then what? "Where I try to frame what will take after the induction. I will continue to present the pattern analysis after the end of this talk here. I'd like to, because I think it matters to the context, to join in the discussion of the two Ministers who represent the third energy package will go as it appears at the end of 2018. That is, in fact, the highest attitude. Ministers of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, and the highest. Secretary of state, the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son. V.E.G. The minister of state was interviewing the Morning Press on November 15, 2018, where the cover of the story was the most important energy package for the spring to be published. By permission of the president, it says: The government will Guðlaugur the Þór Þórðarson a third energy package until spring. The time will be used by experts to review the contract.◯ We all know what that time was like. This led to what the former head of the Independence Party has called a praiseworthy deception in which there were some illusions that even the supporters of the energy package here at the council did not know who were and became quite a special raid here at the Senate Hall at the beginning of the meeting on the past Monday meeting, which all of whom were present and witnessed. But then, the next day, it will come to the highest level. Minister of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, for an interview with the Morning Press. It does not eliminate any further delay in the energy package. And it says, by permission of the President: It is not excluded that the implementation of a third EU energy package will be extended beyond spring Summit. That's what I'm saying. Minister, Þórdís Kol Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir. Propulsion beyond the spring council, which is said to be until the fall council of 2019. Why am I bringing this up? We're out of time. The pressure that has been put on this case is completely prepared at home, and there is nothing that calls for us to be affected in this way at the booth that seems appropriate to some of the lndependence Party. Some song of power may have been rooted in this, but it's not supposed to be the problem of the rest of us here at the council. We can use the time. There are uncertainty, questions that have not been answered, which allow much time to be taken to settle matters so that everyone is comfortable with how the matter will be handled. That's where I even mention it. Premonitions that seem fanciful. The interests of the public mentioned as a core factor in the rapid introduction of this process as a result of the cow. Then I refer to the views that arise regarding consumer protection and the alleged transparency, which came during the day, there was no emphasis on any evidence in the case. Another factor that encourages us to push the case forward to the autumn Summit is the date of September 23, where a administrative court in Norway will decide whether the manufacture of Norway will last. Its conclusions may influence how the matter turns over. So since we have time, of course, we should allow that time to pass. Another factor that would be to make use of the time in the autumn is the fourth energy pack, which is now ready. I haven't seen it, but I do know that those who have doubts about the energy package and supporters, as well, would gladly spend summers diving into that rule together. In view of the fact that these Norwegians have been waiting 14 months for the European Union to give them so little answer to anything they thought they had done, I think it would be best for us to hurry up slowly and take advantage of the obvious opportunity we have to go back to this case and take it back to the autumn. There's a lot of questions left.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u404	A respectable president. I'd like the president to put me back on the rosary for a speech. I thank the senator for his speculation on this change of course or what to call what seemed to have happened in the case when the matter lay ahead a few months ago, that the case could be delayed, probably to further research and to prepare more fully for it. It's a big deal to me that it's better if there's more than a few senators behind it. It seems that more detailed things are being done at the council, but that may already be true, for I imagine that some members of the council will see an opportunity and take action when votes come to know that some of the minor groups, group members, are going to help out. But have a why. A senator or some explanation of what led the minister of the Independence Party suddenly to try to run the case through? I think the head of the State Department kept the matter on the committee brilliant. However, that does not make the matter big and would have tolerated more time. But it's not to the chairman of the Committee to blame, I believe. I believe that the majority of the committee were willing to complete the case, except maybe the Middle Class and the people's representatives. What makes it possible that all of a sudden the matter could not be considered further? Now we've pointed out that the fourth energy package is ready. We have also noted that part of what is listed as a change are the types we discuss and are going to enter today, that they will be changed after a few months again. Why not just breathe into the belly, as is said, and consider the whole matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u405	A respectable president. You're hoping you'll ask. I don't have a good answer to the cause. But it beats me this way, knowing how the matter was turned in the Independence Party, just from the way the members of the party had expressed themselves in public field, this was so suspiciously quick and decisive in the whole case without me wanting to have any of those who had doubts about the matter, not at all, and may be able to assume that the conclusion that evil was probably the best of it, that at some point this matter would have to be finished at some point. Now that the Ministers thought that we had found a way to get this through at an alarming rate, it would be better to put our heads under now so that as little pain could escape for those who had doubts about the matter. But besides, I haven't seen any evidence that argues in terms of the sudden reversal. You must look to see that the change was primarily the alleged warnings that came in. After the discussion that has taken place here in the Senate Hall of the past few days, it would be really interesting to learn how the former members of the council became supporters, how they experienced warnings as they are now following the discussion, because the silence has been complete from those who were most convinced of their change of attitude with these alleged new warnings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u406	A respectable president. The warnings are that appear to be primarily one reason for the type No. 713, with regard to the ACER Institute. The account does not appear to be valid for 714. As a result, you wonder whether members of the administrations have realized just how limited the field of values is on the move. Similarly, I find it very special to see black in a pack of four energy being updated and changed by the 72/2009, 714/2009, and one type 347/2013, yes, probably 347, I can't quite remember, they're changing. These are almost all the types we're dealing with today. They've been informed that they should change. They've been announced that they should be updated. Why do members of the board refuse to get the bigger picture? What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u407	A respectable president. This is truly a question to wonder when everyone is aware of how short a review of the types in the third energy package, we know we have time to wait to see the overall picture for the third energy package and for the fourth energy package, we have time to put it all together in front of us. I have no more creative imagination, but I can't see what it is that calls for finishing this case now knowing that we have time to store it until the fall, at least. It's like the highest. By permission of the President, the Minister of Industrial Affairs said in an interview with the Morning Press, with the permission of the president: There is no way to rule out anything about the currently developed matters of Congress. - Then he was referring to the time when they would eventually come for payment. [[The president calls.]] The highest attitude, then, may well be the case. A minister is that this matter can be kept even longer than in the autumn. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u408	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator asked: And then what? This is simply what has been discussed here from various angles, i.e. What happens when we're inducted out? This council mobilization proposal will be fulfilled. They're preventing us from doing what we can. A senator entered, which the Norwegians have done during the induction process, is eight. He is very impressed with me with this contract on the European Economic Area, especially the one mentioned in 93. Gr., if I recall correctly, this Member State should speak with one voice. Now it's quite clear that if we put two in advance of certain things, but Norway sets eight warnings, and Liechtenstein doesn't have one voice. There's a conflict between that statement in the EEA, or ours, against the European Union. Could it be that it was just right and that we would be pleased to refer this case to the EEA Committee and therefore work time and make it a favor to speak simply one voice? In view of the cooperation we have made in order to participate, it may be the most healthy and reasonable thing to do, and we would then be doing according to the rules laid down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u409	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. In my mind it is obvious that the most natural way to go now is to refer the case to the European Commission and, of course, create an opportunity for our cousins in Norway to get their own advance of earnings on the same committee as the EEA agreement itself, in 102.g. I'm just not familiar with it, so I have to admit, whether the different fronts of various EU countries are considered to be a failure to speak in one voice, circumstances may be different in each country. But it is clear that the Norwegian experience of having been cross-bordered in terms of electrical transport requires that they want to make eight warnings. That tells you a lot of things, I think it's safe to say. The fact that someone who is already connected and has experience in being connected to eight warnings is likely to say that there are some things that we may not have come to know, but there is reason to bear in mind. If the news you heard about how this all happened in Norway, there are serious doubts about the induction there. Only now that there has been no cough and no lock from the European Union for 14 months have people become agitated about the eight warnings being made. That's why I think it's so important for the Norwegians that we go that way, Icelanders, to refer the case to the Joint EEA Committee. [[The president calls.]] Then the gringo will open up for them, I suppose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u410	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is absolutely true that time pressure is really no one in our country in Iceland, but it is quite early to realize that the pressure is enormous on the European Union, that this case is over. Hv. A senator entered the date of September 23, after which Norway's administrative court will decide on this matter regarding the constitution problem. Now our Constitutions and Norwegians are in many ways similar, and the controversy is about whether what the contract puts into it is what they call an interventional force, i.e., by permission of the president. whether it is a small power or a major or more than the Constitution allows. Would it not be proper for us to wait for that conclusion? That should give us specific guidance in how we should respond. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator might agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u411	A respectable president. I think it would be wise for many things to make the time that we truly have in this matter. The picture is filling up, in terms of how this introduction is being held at home. It is filling up as far as Norway is concerned; the European Union's position should be properly fired so hard afterwards. The State Department's press release, which reported the common sense of the EFTA state in Iceland's position, reports that a representative of the European Union has read a statement that Norway's business, especially with energy, was all in the uncertainty of the problem not being introduced by all EU countries. It's a little encrypted threat, and first I think it's a little reason to lean back in the seat and try to look over the bigger picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u412	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I think it's very interesting how you do it. One member expressed this thought and wondered why the matter had been delayed, as it were. A senator was a good shaver. There are statements from the minister of foreign affairs and others that it would be wise to postpone the case until the fall. Then you wonder why we have not been told about it. Is it possibly the IceLink project that I understand we're still involved in, that it's difficult to get Iceland out of this project for some reason? Then it may be possible to wonder if Bgrestat had any effect on this. Does the European Union view it as bad if it is found that Icelanders will slow this issue down? Likewise, everything is going on in the back legs with Bgret. Is there any connection, that it could be bad for the European Union if this case was delayed in Iceland? These are speculations that I would have liked to have ideas from my head. A senator with, e.g. In the IceLink project, which is a huge and huge project that we're on by Landsnet and Landing. At the same time, this is a very large international company, e.g. A company called Interconnector Holdings and another one called National Grid. It's a very powerful business, and there's a lot of interest in it. Could there be something playing into it that put some external pressure on Iceland not to delay the introduction of this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-22-108.u413	A respectable president. I don't know how these cooperation projects are being carried out, but the statements that have been made on the basis of a request that the IceLink string be taken out of the total government project are made that if anything is hated there, it will likely have a major impact on the confidence that is in Icelandic politics, on the rest of it. I simply refuse to believe that such a request has not already been sent, and I recall hearing a statement made by a minister saying that it was sent. Then comes the view that is likely to be reversed in this context all, it's not a challenge as a project such as this one can get into its perpendition. I don't think strong people who are involved in such projects as this, privates, will keep their mouth shut that the project is being blown off by some temporary political unrest in Iceland, as some people do. I don't know how this cooperation was worked, and how it happened that this IceLink entered this program, but it can hardly have happened differently than in the cooperation of these foreign companies and land activations and any others and expected at the request of the Icelandic party. It shall be a long time for this man to try, but I can hardly believe that men made such strong statements that they wanted him to be taken out of it without it being. [[The president calls.]]
