ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u1	The President has received a letter from the Minister of Justice asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 196, on the reasons of the wiretaps from early 2014 from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u2	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party on his attitude on the operation of Iceland Bank these days. News has now appeared which at first seemed to have been kind of a market trick or an Aprilbb in October, but it will not be. The Federal Bank of Iceland is now planning to take part in the media and civility conferences in the media and to contribute their capital as the nature of the case, in fact, to the financial and financial resources of the bank's customers. Now everyone must feel that it is important to be balanced in the media, as in other work places. But I think it's the highest. The minister of finance normal that the bank uses its power in forced labor and makes that journey, as is called by the bank, and more of the bank's interests will be on the horizon, including the horizon. The media are in danger of not following the bank's policy in what the bank expects to be punished financially? The National Center on this issue today shows that the bank does not want to do business with an enterprise where there is too high a male or only male working ratio. Asking if the bank will then do business in order to form a car repair shop, where men may be operating only, it is said to be an observation in the field of the bank's operating area. Is this not a somewhat thought-of-the-art evolution? Secretary of finance, no matter what the goals, to a government company, a bank, decide to use their power and funding to force a certain conclusion? And when it turns to the media, does the bank intend to take part in the way the media are being expelled?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u4	A respectable president. I would like to start by reminding you that government policy-makers of finance are to work in harmony with government policy and that all principles are laid down. The bank's management and activities should conform to the priorities displayed in the tenure policy. Then, in view of the bank's emphasis, I have to admit that it's quite Spanish to me. You wonder, for example. If the bank wants to emphasize equality, equality, and green solutions in his business, where it intends to draw the boundaries. Of course, we here at the General and the Government each time, the government, in recent years have emphasized these classes, the green lawsuits, and the equal issues. If you're going to make them some point in your business, I think it's a little double-knit about doing it on the bank's operating gate only, not on the income side. Will the bank, if they're going to take this course and develop these ideologies any further, refuse to do business with those who don't work according to this ideologies and intend to do business with the bank so that the bank will benefit from it? But when the bank needs to be viewed as an expense or an expenditure, should some other category be involved? I can't quite tell where people are going with this, because it sounds like at this point people are in comparison with the news - and that's all I have to do with this, that's in the news today - to have conversations about it and to try to encourage how they deal with their businessmen that it's a very important matter of equality. It is for itself good and good. There is, however, a limit to how far humans can travel from the emphasis displayed in government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u5	Mr. President. I share the concerns of the highest. The secretary of finance described, but it is not time to review government policy in the banks in the light of what we have seen in recent times, the latest, and then plans for huge national headquarters, etc.? I wonder if it's not yet time. Second of all, Mr. President, I'd like you to know there are a lot of sides on this. There are many reasons to worry about this. For example, consider the country's most popular radio station, the Wave. Most employees during the day are men, though, of course, women are there for interview. If the U.S. Bank decides to stop advertising on this specific radio channel, it would probably not be serving the interests of the public, the owners of the bank, by which he would not be doing so. Ain't the main thing, chief. Secretary of finance, to a bank that wishes to give its own social responsibility reduces growth, to the Iceland Bank to form some of the 400,5500 currency that he published on his website?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u6	A respectable president. We have comparable ideas, I think, about the role of the bank in this regard, that they serve their primary role in being present for homes and businesses to share capitals, lend loans, and receive loans. In this context, we are talking about total nuclear activity. There's new news for me that these emphasis are coming out. Let's see what's coming. I have extremely limited information on this new course if we could call a policy that we are here. As we have seen, it has many aspects. Of course, if you want to run an equal bank or a green bank, you have to be consistent about it all the way. It's not according to the owner's policy, and if you ask for it, it's a reexamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u7	A respectable president. There is a major road operation in the capital area ahead. In this cooperation, the state must work with the city of Reykjavík, which seems to have no idea how to handle the road. She lets drive down the Hot Way, up the Route, and then when she gave up on it, she just closed. She's digging up Holfi's Street. She doesn't know when she's gonna finish. Cities take place in Basis Road, one simple corner lane. The result? Instead of being half an hour this distance, you're an hour. Now the job is stopped because they forgot to take her to a local presentation. So I ask: How on earth are we going to do that when it comes to putting Reykjavík on Hafnarfnarfurfjörður or Reykjavíkurvegur, at Gardavót, in the stockway? What should be done with the traffic that is there today, and where should she go? Is she supposed to go into some kind of stockways that are already full? Has this problem been solved? If you look at the Basis road and the outcome it says to yourself that if you are going to turn all the traffic on the Seatrack that used to take the lead, you need not an hour to get to work but two or three hours. That's why I'm directing these questions to the highest level. Secretary of the road, i.e. Transporter: Has this problem been solved? How do you solve it? Is there a plan B, something that will make sure traffic is going smoothly during the implementation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the motivation for road projects. About the entrance, anyway. I'd like to say that even though the city of Reykjavík had some kind of policy and it appeared that way. In this way, in relations with the state and rural union of the transport contract of the capital area, we all put cards on the table, find different solutions, combine them to deal with the problems we know, that traffic time is way too high. What has so far been done in these programmes, which are reflected in the transport contract and the agreement with rural society, is based on the knowledge best available in the country and by different peoples in the Vegas, rural society, engineering agencies and such factors; have been put together in the order of the projects to appear in order to solve the problem. But I have no idea that when some projects happen on a so - called main route, the traffic must, of course, go somewhere else at that time. There is no other solution but to combine the operations so that something has been solved before the problem. Therefore, there is an effort to shorten the time for the construction work to take place. We've probably got two years, in the group to set up here, where all the best acquainted meet and try to resolve the questions as well. A senator is in. I am not an expert on road construction, transportation, or transportation. I don't think any senator in the hall has that expertise. But we have people with such knowledge and are working on it in the next two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister respond, but I have the solution. A report from 2018 states: The only road that could lighten the traffic of the Rhine Way and Hafnarfjörður is from Kópavogur to Hafnarfjordur. Falling from the ideas of Upper-inhabited Parktown, all traffic to the future through the present road will increase, thus increasing the importance of maintaining a high level of service. Unfortunately, this possibility has probably been ruined by the park, but not entirely. We'll just put a tunnel under Garville, hook up with Kopavog Way, and we've got it covered. Let's start with this. Then we come in a different way when we begin to take up the Smokey Way to Hafnarfnarfjördur and Gardeville. Let us also see that there are 50,000 cars going around in 24 hours. If there's no way to fix it, we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u10	A respectable president. I don't doubt that those of our experts who know best in this regard are in any position to consider how to solve this problem. I remind you that part of the complex solution is that we will make more use of a variety of means of transportation, including public transportation, which, of course, is equipped to move more people around at the same time than the family car, especially if there is only one person in it. In the years that followed, we can also imagine that there will be more to share cars. We also know that the city line of work is primarily a new lane that, as a result, accepts the self - driving vehicles that may be the first to become in public transport. I have high hopes that this project will solve the problem we've been facing for a long time, and we in the state are coming to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u11	A respectable president. It was a great pleasure to see that during the first period of a travel program that was introduced last week, the Dundinhön took place. Even sooner, someone might say, but at present. The animal tunnel will be opened in September next year or after more than ten months. For those who do not know, these are two ways of working together, for only animals can get their hands on Daringrimur as well. First, we've talked about a full - year journey between the north and the south of the West. It has been for a few years when the tunnel would open up, so there is a time to do the necessary preparatory work for Daringsad, such as making environmental food, which is time - consuming and difficult, especially when it comes to the poorest environment, where it seems to be a greater demand for protection from nature than in other parts of the country. In September, that's it. Rarik gave the earth to the people of Daringda for possession. On that occasion, the Environment and Resource Minister declared that he would be interested in the expansion of the Peace Information Zone on the Danmark and linked it to the peace-lit area of the Waterfair. But in that area, this tremendous importance is possible. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: When can it be assumed that the environmental assessment of Daringhön will be completed and when can we expect the implementation of Dominder's program? Why isn't all the projects being carried out at once on the Bilddal Road? Wouldn't that be more favorable? And does Ministers believe that the peaceful plans of the Environment and Resource Minister will have a negative impact on the road?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the interest in transport improvements on the West. It is true that during the last few weeks, we have more than 120 billion projects in the capital area, but at the same time, there are a great number of urgent projects around the country, including completing the basic weather system, which is not entirely completed. Therefore, at least State that some roads there are not acceptable today. However, we do well to keep this in mind when we bring in some way in or drive in some tunnel that if people have not thought about it with sufficient advance, they are not prepared for it, and then they will take quite a long time. I mention, for example, that although a tunnel has been talked about for many years, it will take two years for a decision at the council to be made until such a project can be offered out. The same is true of the west roads. It simply takes some time for basic design, then for environmental assessment, and finally more design before it can be available. The road structure is not authorized to prepare such projects unless funding have been set. When we in this room make decisions and move things far into the future without guaranteeing enough money to end them somewhere in the field. They are not prepared as necessary. That is why it is so important to watch a 15 - year period. That is why it is so important to return to a tunnel program that we have decided with sufficient notice where we are heading. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that it's always best to offer one campaign of different tasks that are to be carried out in seven, eight years. It may also make more sense to offer to a lesser extent. I trust the road model to appreciate it at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is of utmost importance that we begin our roads as soon as the environmental assessment is ready. It's important to be careful, so we don't land in another Chetsfork, I want to call them a story. That sad story is now 20 years old, and the West are afraid of it, so the context needs to be considered. Because the Minister is also a special amateur to unite rural communities, and even looking at the entire West together, such projects are extremely important. Finally, I'd like to encourage the Minister to ensure that winter service will be on Dougning Island until the road is rebuilt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u14	V.E.G. President. I didn't come to all the information in the previous year's answer to the request for a proposed peace description and enlargement in the area associated with the falls of Denmark and the beautiful region. How important it is when we are still building the basic systems of our country that we keep in mind that the land we need to take up for such projects has not been locked up with any forms of peace or other without the benefits being weighed and evaluated. I want to trust that there is no danger in that area because the road is almost ready for an invitation. The environmental assessment of the Bilddal Road is what we're waiting for. The rest depends on what I know, and we can move on as soon as the approval of the Generals is at hand. But in general, we need to consider that we want to live in this country and people around the country, not only in the capital area, we also want to live in their own country, and that's why we have to weigh the benefits of innovation and peace and the balance between them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u15	A respectable president. At the beginning of the election, it is reported in a report that Sigurður and Secretary of Transport Ingi Jóhannsson reveal no plans for road charges on key routes to and from Reykjavík. It also points to the lack of trimming of a government contract. Our last class was considered a number of expenditures in financial planning and in a transport program that was either to be set up around the capital area or not. They are the latest turnaround September 11. A report also showed that the main foundations of the capital area were to be taken up to finance transport. Just a little over a month later, the concept of subsidies from the capital area in a revised transport program has returned. A respectable president. That kind of ring-in-the-boxing thing's a little annoying. I think it's the highest. A minister owes us an explanation of that confusion over government policy. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister a few questions: Is it the government's policy to lay down payment in the capital area? Is it the government's policy to rate all the tunnels in Iceland? If not, what tunnel escapes pay? Is the government's policy to cover the costs of public transport and maintenance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u16	A respectable president. I could ask you why. In contrast, a member of the Parliament's Council: What's its perennial nature is in the majority of the county government in Reykjavík, and why. A senator is of the same category as the people who have been willing to make extensive preparations in the capital area and make a deal with the State, including about getting traffic controls, to reduce traffic, which are council proposals instead of the state? [[Up front.]] And then comes the second. There's a senator up there asking what kind of ring-up is going on. We are simply working on a huge project. For far too long, we have put too much money on transportation in the capital area as well as in many parts of the country. There has also been an explosion in traffic, 26,000 rental cars, which drive about 20% of the miles [U.S.] in the country. We are dealing with the problem. I haven't changed my mind. There was nothing in the government covenant about roadstones that should be based on all transportation, and I'm not offering that. Was there anyone in this room, including he who stands here, against the Haggis? No, I wasn't. In fact, it was 70% of the people against them in their time. But does anyone today object to such a project? I don't think so. I offer here six suggestions for such projects, to speed them up, and to charge for that price. I back it up in agreement with my rural society in the capital area, to go into and solve the marvelous problems we have here, including by taking a price, because it's their wish and including the expected rate of the party. Senator. When he comes up and talks about sensuousness, I just have to send that question back. The other is obvious, though. A senator, that we are in the middle of climate change, that we are in energy exchange for transport, a government policy that is in the government contract, and that has been involved in changing the operating system for traffic and automobiles in the country. That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u17	A respectable president. It would be fine if questions were answered here. V.E.G. Clearly, a minister was not listening to a discussion about a spring transport program when we in Pormis were very opposed to the road schemes and plans of the greater part. That was in the opinion of the greater part, i.e. The divisions of the council, and several other classes of the council, which were charged for a recompence. It wasn't the Pirates, far from there. The question that I would like to ask is very simple: Who insisted on paying dues in the agreement to finance general road management and maintenance? There is absolutely no need to have that law, for it is always the responsibility of the council, members of Congress, and members of Congress to decide whether or not to be exacted. Farmers have nothing to say about that. It's the responsibility of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u18	V.E.G. President. During the Council on Transport Plans, there were many ideas and a good degree of positiveness from most categories by considering other methods. I remember that when I first spoke for a trip program over a year ago, the discussion was not so much about the plan itself but about the need to think outside the box. I think it came from all members of the council, including the Pirates. The idea of reimbursement in a tunnel for operating, maintenance and further security measures came from a greater part of the environment and transport organisation and was written in there. I'll take it with me into a tunnel plan and live on the soft-eared model. There are also other ideas. With the government's agreement with six societies, there's a pack. A senator's way to exactly that. [[The president calls.]] Doesn't the rest of the money still stand in Reykjavík? I don't know any better. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u19	V.E.G. President. My request to the highest. The secretary of finance has made it clear that I received an inquiry from the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance the other day, which shows that the Icelandic economy regularly considers his workers around 80 billion dollars. which are not paid taxes. The middle class has probably been offering suggestions at 2nd. Funding tax returns mainly to promote healthy competition. Everyone sees that healthy competition is not where some people pay taxes and others don't. These are our proposals to promote the office of the government tax manager and the tax investigator's office. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he doesn't consider this information necessary to tighten a debt on a tax-based basis and to prevent 80 billion dollars, approximately 8% of each year's budget is around the economy without paying taxes. I remind you what we talked about last night, even though we only got 10% of this number, that would be 8 billion bucks. every year. As mentioned at the highest. He wants to make a national fund and pay 10 billion a year for it for a few years. It's under the roof. Is it not a long time ago for the secretary of finance to underline this and to agree with our recommendation in the Central Party to increase tax control and tax returns?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u20	A respectable president. In recent years, we've funded a better observer in this area. We've been involved in international cooperation on a large scale, making information exchange agreements in order to get to the root tax frauds as much as possible. Of course, the figures that are now being mentioned are planned, but they should not surprise anyone, since it has been during the long discussion that in Iceland there is a black economy that is hard to eradicate. The question is, What methods are best for success in these matters? I pay attention to the fact that by some form of operation, all black activity can be eliminated and taken as additional wealth in the state budget of 80 billion without any affecting other income stocks anywhere else. I think the complex context of these objects would reveal something different. The answer to the question of whether it is important to have a well - funded and powerful agency is absolutely yes, and I believe the example shows that we have followed the budgetary policy as necessary. The latest action I've recommended at the council, after moving the collection to the tax, in order to improve the efficiency of the collected taxes as possible, is that we suggest that tolls and taxpayers be in the same agency so that they will be better equipped to perform the roles of these agencies as laws. This is what I wanted to say about this important case, and it's true. A senator says, it's even It's a question of humans competing on equal terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance is very much responsible for this answer. True, we do not agree on how much is, i.e. How hard it is to contribute to the surveillance agencies who collect hands. That was one hundred and twenty million. K. year before, if I remember correctly, which the kingdom gave to this, which is not a great sum. V.E.G. A minister of finance may have misunderstood me just earlier because I didn't talk about reaching 80 billion. I said it would be good to get 10% of this. The other thing is, you have a feeling that Iceland's IRS is solely focused on small employers, even pro-employers, who are being chased by a bit of a hitter while bigger companies seem to skip unconcerned. It's not good Latin, it's mostly. Ministers, because in the small process, the growth points. I'm going to go to the top. Ministers are still doing this in order to improve their efficiency in the office of the tax investigator as an e.g. does not have a single cent, if I recall correctly, in the increase of the budget now or in approval of the proposal of our Middle Class, which will definitely come up with this funding at 2nd. It's a budget bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u22	A respectable president. I think that the senator's ablaze by saying that some are hounded by the tax authorities, but at the same time, it is important that we add large amounts of tax control to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u23	The small fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u24	The little fish, they say. Senator. We have achieved tremendous success by making a special effort to eradicate black jobs from the small fish that could be called renting rooms and camping all over town in an Airbunb arrangement. It was a big deal to go to, even if it wasn't part of a big business or an international one. I think we're mostly in some kind of trouble if someone indicates that they're going to have loose spells on a particular kind of operation, but they're more focused on someone else. I think we should agree that everyone should be equal to this and that we can do better. In my department, we listen very closely for information from within the system, whether it's the office mentioned here or anyone else, when you think you can do better with more money. [[The president calls.]] However, it is not so that for every 1k. which we put in IRS, we get others right in the box, so we'd just put all the money in the IRS and get all the money in the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u25	Mr. President. Since the development of the left movement, the Atlantic Union has grown and increased in its Member States for three and a fourth time. Every time these growths have been adopted at the General Assembly and made a vote for them at the Assembly Hall, the attitude of the members of the Council has always been the same. They've turned a minority party into a dog. A U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs and Sitting by the votes, resistance to Iceland's presence in a military alliance is the foundation of the movement's policy. This trend is unchanged here today, as the enlargement of the Community is contrary to the WG's emphasis. NATO is a military alliance, not a cute peace club. The rise in the Atlantic Union is not a basis for world peace, stability, and security. Rather, it would be through the granting of international institutions, international cooperation, conversation, and democratic solutions. Hence, members of Congress are sitting on the left side of the convention at the vote today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u26	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. The rise in the Atlantic Union, NATO, is neither a positive step in Europe's safety, nor in the whole world. How much better to promote peace, stability, and security in the world by other means! I agree with what has been said about the support of international institutions, conversations, and cooperation, that is what we need, not just in peace matters, but when it comes to climate crisis. This is where we need to talk, not make alliances. We at the left motion will, as we have seen, not vote on this case, and that is in harmony with the way we have previously voted on comparable terms. I'll lead there, including... so that we would vote for Montenegro to be accepted into the Atlantic Alliance. We're sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u27	Mr. President. The Atlantic Union has from the beginning proved its importance as a fixture in Europe's safety and protection issues. This has been an extremely important site for cooperation in Western nations, and since the fall of the wall exactly 30 years ago, many countries of Eastern and Central Europe have been added to the coalition. They have felt that it was important for their security interests to come together with the nations of the Atlantic Community, and I think it is a great joy to see that this has been the case. Although world conditions have changed in many ways, especially the major change since 1989 and since then, this is still a time for world war, so it is vital that nations that work together in harmony with one another have a place to work together. [[The president calls.]] The Atlantic alliance has served that purpose well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u28	Mr. President. I now sit as head of the National Council of NATO and in recent meetings, like 18 months, North Macedonia has made a very hard trip into the North Atlantic Union. Actually, it's a 20 - year story. At the Council of NATO in London more than a week ago, the northern Macedonians asked about the situation because they are headed for it and are very interested. They see it as a huge and important matter for their country to get in. So I'm glad we're voting on this here. It's about stability, it's a lot of emphasis within the NATO and in NATO, on stability in the Balkans and the Northern Macedonians to see it as a very big and important matter for their country to enter NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u29	A respectable president. Piranians don't have a policy in Iceland's state of the North Atlantic, NATO as it is often called, and there are differences of opinion within our movements there. The one that stands here is totally against our presence in the North Atlantic. This alliance takes a repeated war crime, invades other nations, blows up civilians, and does not have to render an account for them. As a result, I will be a member of this vote, but I do know that just as with many matters, there are differing opinions about this matter in Pirata. Since there is no direction to guide us, I will allow my conscience to guide me this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u30	A respectable president. I have been in favor of Iceland's membership in NATO, often with a lot of composure because NATO is often not acceptable to me. However, I always end up looking for the safety and protection of Iceland that is present. Whether we're a nation without arms or not, these protection and security issues are there and I haven't been able to overlook them. I'm going to support the proposal because I think it's in the interest of Iceland's security. However, in view of recent events involving two NATO countries, Turkey and the United States, I find it valid to wonder if it is indeed the security and protection of Iceland's people to be in NATO, completely away from all that people feel about the behavior of NATO from time to time. If we look at Iceland's security and defense interests completely, I can ask if it's our best interests to be in this alliance compared with the behavior that has been seen from certain leaders recently. I think it's worth asking. I don't think this suggestion has anything to do with it, so I'll support it, though on this notice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u31	A respectable president. In general, I am against the war effort than in this case and from an old age - I am old enough to remember the NATO and the Warsaw Alliance, these two opponents, Russians and Americans, and the threat they caused. I understand those little nations when they think they need some shelter. The question is, is there a fake shelter? We'll see, for example. It's a strange business with Turk in it and how to behave. But I will support the proposal because I understand why that nation, northern Macedonia, asks to enter the alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u32	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we're not paying votes for Iceland's state in the Atlantic Alliance. We are voting on the involvement of the northern Macedonian republic in this coalition. I respect the national voluntary rights, I respect the right of the Northern Emedonium to apply for this alliance, and I don't think it's a reason to lie against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u33	President. I don't have to question my opinion on this matter. Two o'clock. Senators of the left have made our stand clear. However, I'd like to say that although we're dealing with the expansion of the Atlantic Union through the invasion of northern Macedonia, I rejoice that we are discussing in the Assembly Hall the nature and purpose of the Atlantic Alliance in general. We don't often, we hardly ever do that. I sincerely hope that more opportunities, including with forward proposals and hopefully more, to discuss this important matter, whether we want Iceland to be a member of the Atlantic Community, more often at the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u34	Mr. President. I remind you that this is a report request submitted and approved at the last council, but due to the way the arrangement is being conducted at the council, the request has to be submitted again. I'm just saying this so that members of Congress can see that the request was accepted at the last council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u35	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 272, 251th matter, about the change in salmon and trout law. The bill suggests a few changes in the salmon and trout law. First, there are regulations designed to strengthen minor protection in a hunting society with special guidelines on the value of meetings. Next, proposals for changes to the arrangements of the Game Committee are proposed to reduce the exchange by the government at the expense of the work of the Committee. Now, I'm going to step toward the individual components of the bill. As most people know, the law says about salmon and trout fishing for man's duty to be in a hunting society and the right to take advantage of fishing under the market of each fishing company. The work of hunting partners is then more detailed in the law, but it has special significance here that the owners or crews of the land who have one vote each at a hunting gathering. The most important decision for any fishing company in salmon is a contract made by contracts with landlords, usually for a few years. In a hunting club, the principle is that there is a balance between votes. This bill aims to provide better protection for the smaller segments of the population in hunting communities. This was of little concern to the last revision of the law in the spring of 2006, and it actually fell out of force at 2 mg. Section 48. An earlier law of living on more than one earth, however, would have only one vote for social gatherings. It has occurred from the time onward that, more important than buying salmon, as well as the river for investment, may result in the loss of a small part of a fishing society in the long run and one member of the society's affairs. The special rules of salmon and trout fishing for the treatment of hunting rights and fishing make it right to respond to this. In this regard, the bill is based on a little bit of a Senate bill. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson moved along with others. It is attributed to minor rights as the best protection in a partner's law, which has various functions to protect such rights. The reason is that even if financial responsibility and decision - making are natural, it may be right to provide less portion of the needed protection by means of undisputed instructions to maintain balanced interests. In a similar manner, which was provided and given a Senate bill it seems appropriate that the maximum votes as the same party or associate may be used to attend social meetings in the force of individual holdings or connected parties will be up to 30%. This will guide the vote of the two-thirds of all voters in order to legalize or modify them. Thus, no one can prevent such changes from being handled. In an explanation of the outworking of this article, we will consider further. The bill and I refer to what it says about its implementation. The next thing I'd like to start is the changes proposed by the bill on the preparation of the Game Committee. First, a few words about the cashier's opinion. With 41 st. a layer of salmon and trout fishing is recommended for the factors to be used to divide interest between partners in a fishing society. First, there is a place for net fishing and fishing, second, land length for fishing, water volume and water bottom, and third, spawning conditions. If there is a disagreement on how to divide money on the basis of these views, it is subjected to a special legal committee that operates according to Article 44. The law. In 2015 a group of my predecessors were appointed to review the work of the Game Committee. In addition to the members of the Ministry, this group of representatives of the Institute for Fishing and the National Union of Fishing. It was noted that the task force considered that the value of fishing/fishing status increased from 41.3% to 49.0% from 1996•2005 compared with 2009●2015, paying attention to the overall assessment and based on the uniqueness of each fishing water. Similarly, the value of tray length, habitats, and other assessments had been reduced. The change, however, would be more likely to be viewed solely for sustainable salmon fishing. It was then thought that the cost of cooking was high and that there had been increasing, and there was reason to review the legal structure of the European Commission with the aim of reducing expenses. This is discussed in a paper with the bill, and I encourage members of the Parliament to study it and the explanations in the bill. At the end of the report work, the legal committee was organized. It noted that although much of the evaluation was protected from the field of education, there were no demand for fishing knowledge or knowledge, even though much of the study required it. It might also be asked, " Is it right for landowners to appoint a member of the committee and to review the requirements for special knowledge of the eaters? ' The bill responds to this challenge, and it suggests that two of the three representatives should meet the common conditions of the district judge. This will make it easier to appoint representatives to the Committee with expertise or experience in fishing or in the biology of aquatic fish. It is suggested that one representative be appointed according to the National Institute of Research, while another without a form of appointment will be appointed to the chairman. As a result of a firm request for a Community hunting partner, it is considered inappropriate to suggest that the Community's right to be canceled from the committee. Finally, I'd like to mention that with the bill, there's a proposal for a shift of 47.3. g. The law states that the State is costing the work of a cashimbursement committee and that it decides the annual pay of the committees, but on the contrary, fishermen, as it says, should normally pay the cost of a trust in the state's funds. This suggests that the Ministry will provide accounts of the Commission or its representatives and then retrace companies for the payment, without having any other access to the committee's work. This arrangement has been under way since 2006, and it is proposed that it be removed, as it were, not to be viewed as the need for public communication by hand, which may further contribute to the cost of remuneration. However, it is reasonable that a ministerial servant will continue to be granted the authority to determine the time paid by the committee and its employee. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. I want at the end of my speech to encourage you. Work committees to review the subject of the bill as early as possible, especially the part of the element involved in strengthening minor protection in hunting companies. They added the feature of the bill after the matter had been introduced into government consultations. At the same time that I've sensed a lot of support in the main goal of strengthening the minority protection in hunting communities, I know that there are many effective means, all with their advantages and weaknesses. I would therefore especially like to encourage the committee to give a thorough consideration to the suggestions and suggestions that will likely be presented in a review procedure involved in this issue and take into account carefully. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u36	Mr. President. Two. is a change of 44. The law says that a member of the Committee designated by Iceland's Supreme Court and a non-registered member, i.e. Which the minister shall choose; they shall have to have the rights of the district judges. It puts it in that instead of Iceland's Supreme Court nominaries, one of these individuals is a Merit Research Institute. What was the basis for the early identification of one of the European Supreme Courts? We need to know this so that we can appreciate it in comparison with the Veterans Institute. What are the viewpoints there? Even if an Ecological Institute was added, ask, " Why is the Supreme Court being dealt with? ' Is it normal that the Supreme Court nominates one of the members appointed by the minister and that the party, even though he was not the man the Minister has absolutely the authority, have the expertise that the local judge has? If he is to be taken out of the committee, we must be absolutely clear as to why it was originally put in that the Supreme Court commanded and that the party had this expertise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u37	A respectable president. I don't know exactly why the Supreme Court was inserted into this and the basic reason why people should have the appropriate conditions for a local judge to sit on this committee. This may be because, in the past, people did not have as much information as we do today about the basic factors that I mentioned to help with today's income. The work I quoted to indicate that my predecessor had started with the involvement of the main stakeholders in the United States, in effect, provided the suggestion that the changes presented here for 2 Peter 3: 1 - 5. ..... to draw more biological knowledge into this interest evaluation than some dry judgment sense. I won't belittle her, but she's getting close to the situation on a different basis. The foundation might say that by setting up that it is quite normal for the Marine Research Institute, which, rather than being somewhere on the sideline, has done a great deal of sharing in the data provided by the Agency under its protective wing. It is also a personal gathering and meeting in them to settle the problems they have with each other regarding the newcomer's income, and if they do not meet together, it is likely that they will be able to bring these differences further and, if that is the case, to the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u38	President. It would be nice to have this. We'll take a look at them when they get to the committee what was the prerequisite for having a high court order of the party. We will consider some of the minorities involved. It looks good that big people can't take over, as happens to us. The General Meeting, where the majority of the segment is equal to 99% of everything that happens. He can really run 100%. It is of interest that here some professionals are being invited to serve as designated ones while we are dealing with the National Fund, where the minister has a capacity of 100% who are appointed there. This is in context to something we should consider. Here's the minority protection they're talking about, more members that are being given the command, etc. I think it's professional, but let's take a look at this in context. Then there is another, the Minister decides the Commission's salary and the head of the committee. [[The president calls.]] This law cancels the value of other aspects of this article, and these points remain. Can a minister explain this in a little more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u39	A respectable president. As soon as the minority protection looks okay, I pointed out in my history, other ways too are few. Regarding the export, I specifically urged the committee to consider making sure that the greater part is also correct. There may be some other needle support, but it's set up in the bill, and I'm happy if you can make enough money to make the most of it. That's what I'm talking about. The senator mentioned the time fee, which factors are issued there, is the automatic way in which the State should cover the costs for the hunting companies at this job and then collect the requests they make. This is highly unnatural, but the reason we insist that the deadline is determined by us is that the Ministry will appoint the committee. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I would suggest that it is an obligation to become a fishing associate for those who own land to hunt water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. There are two things I would like to ask the highest. Minister in. In the country, I think there's about 110 to 120 fishing companies, I don't exactly have the number. It's close. Have there been many changes in the rules of minority protection? The other thing I wanted to ask the highest. A minister in charge of this minority protection principle that came in after the government's talks were passed if I understood the minister's right. Were strong comments made to the other aspects of the bill in the consultation problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u41	A respectable president. No, I don't know that the food has been set up on many fishing companies. This is the general emphasis it provides that we believe that there is good reason to try to strengthen my share of hunters, although only for the recent developments in their composition. The bill is willing to strengthen the smaller portion of the peers under it, but there is no assessment of the number of people involved. No, I don't think that there was much comment on the bill when it was in consultations, very few, and not too high on the subject, but I think that there are very much agreements on the changes it presents to the Management Board and particularly that focus on the cost of the government at the cost of hunting companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for premeditation to increase minor protection in the members of the country. Of course, it is a major variation from human Constitution to be allowed to stand outside a partner, so it is important to care for smaller items in hunting communities. I wonder, though, if this, as suggested in Article 1. The bill, does not lead much more to minorities, which are not more likely to outweigh the circumstances when the interests of my share are placed on board. I'd like to give you an example. It says that one individual cannot have, in the power of ownership, more than 30% votes in a hunting society where seven or more legal agencies have votes. You can set up an example of this, and it can easily be calculated to the conclusion that the person who uses most votes will end with a value of 30%, even over 80%. I want at least only hear from a minister if he or she thinks it is important. A professional health committee took a special look at this. Then I would also like to ask the minister if there is no need to examine much further than 1 mg. 40. g. Current law, its contingency of earth, what is earth in the sense of salmon fishing. There is a very limited definition, however, of the legal concept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u43	A respectable president. It is a joy to hear that we share the same vision so that we need to strengthen the minority protection in hunting communities. I couldn't agree with that. A senator in my duty to be in a fishing club is very burdensome, that is, in my opinion, and I hear of why. A senator shares that view with the same view. I've heard that point as a matter of fact. A senator noted that the export of this 30% rule could lead to a change in minorities in some particular situation. That is correct, and as a result, I called for it, suggested, and stressed and answered a question again. A senator, that it is important to direct the messages and wishes to the professional committee that she deals specifically with these matters. This is not really better, and far from considering strengthening my protection, no matter what company it is in. Then it's a bad start, if we make it so that we can secure a smaller part of a partner of some power beyond that of a partner. It's not the thought that's behind it, so I was able to think about it specifically in my history that I had heard those views and even those views. For the reason that this point wasn't in the bill when it went on the encore, I further suggested that the committee specifically examined it and I expect it to do so. In the same way, if that's the case, if there are other factors about salmon and trout fishing, if the committee sees a reason to enter those factors, as in any case. A senator named here, it's totally inaccessible to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a positive reaction. This link, and only then, I ask the definition of Earth to 40 st. current salmon fishing shape. I find it inevitable to point out that in a report, I find a slightly misleading feature of the definition of those who enjoy voting in salmon fishing companies. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ The Ents, or crews of the earth, who have one vote for fishing each at a hunting club meeting at 40 C.E. salmon and trout fishing shape It's true, but then you have to keep in mind that for a 40th degree. The salmon layer says: ▪ Earth in the above sense refers to the earth, including deserts, which met the criteria of law to be considered legal in the implementation of older land layers, No. 65/1976.◯ Fishing society's rights have no other landowners than those whose land is considered legal. [[The president calls.]] Now the situation is that humans are dividing land and making leisure time and so forth. They come with money and hunting rights, but they don't vote. I think this is very important. A committee's looking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u45	A respectable president. I still thank you again for the urgency of what you've been doing. Senator. I have discussed this point in particular with a representative of the employment committee and asked them to review those factors. I expect this to be done in the treatment of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u46	Mr. President. I'd like to welcome the introduction of this bill, the bill to legalize the changing of hunting societies, of which special legislation has been presented, as discussed at the highest level. Agricultural minister and counters, which are in many ways very unusual, are not viewed merely by society's freedom of mind and the regulations of the law that were attributed to very short history. I think maybe it's important when we begin our discussion of a change in the law to go into the context of its structure and the setting of this special law. In 1849 a certain decree of hunting was in effect, and then the legislation was given, beginning with a reminder of 1923 or 1928, I should have looked it up accurately. It was followed by a great change that they had gone very far in the individual territories to buy fishing rights from farms or from farms. The lawgiver decided to step into it in an effort to keep things from happening. It has been this way since man's viewing of planet Earth's benefits for his own comfort. This may be the least of the reasons - President. Am I not in the speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u47	You're in a speech, aren't you? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u48	Then you have to fix the clock, that's the only comment. Therefore, I think this part is necessary to discuss, why we deal with the legislation in this way, how it supports residence and settlement in the country. I have no doubt that we can look over the story and say that this law was important in two sense. First, it was one of our first environmental legislations, which then centers on the protection of these fish species, trout and salmon, and their use of them, and second, an important prerequisite for rural development. I don't think that any doubt about the economic significance of the fishing industry for many of the countryside and, in fact, I'm going to go so far as to claim that it is essentially essential to many rural areas that it has been so successful to hold on to such companies and to let them make valuables for the settlement. Not long ago, in the court of the Supreme Court, for which there was a question of hunting rights, the purpose of the law and its main involvement were to support legal farming. It is of great interest to read the argument of the person who was heading for it and then to conclude the Supreme Court and to see it frame so clearly that their main purpose in law is to support legal development. The argument was that land had been sold out of the ground, and people believed that the right to hunt had followed that land, but the Supreme Court found that the right to hunt was to follow the farm from which the land was playing. I am fully aware that changing the rules of hunting society, the last one, a major revision not many years ago, was about this debate, but I intend again to emphasize that, in reality, the spirit of the original legislature is to make the fishing barn a support for farming and to build in rural areas. Accordingly, the Supreme Court in his judgment, as I read it from him. V.E.G. In its historical record, a farmer quoted that I and more members of the council had moved this case with a proposal or made this proposal at the Council, and I'm going to say only that it was an attempt to open up the discussion. I'm not going to say that she was the perfect one. I agree with that. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, who responded to the highest. Agricultural minister needs to work hard on how to prepare it. But perhaps there is a discussion of a collection of land and a global purchase of soil as much as a driving force in that subject. Not only do we know the debate in hunting clubs, conflicts in rural areas that are dealing with the management of a fishing buddy, in some cases sharing the rent of rivers, building fishing houses that can create the circumstances that can't be paid out for long periods of money to those in the countryside because people are going to go out into big projects or over to the fact that this law is going to cause dempa - I'm just going to say it clearly - interested that it can be invaded into rural communities in this way. This is one piece of paper in the picture that we have to discuss in our discussion about collection of farms. In many ways, I find the discussion of land collections and the integration of property on farms often to be unrealistic. I don't want us to forget that, of course, we can't go so far as to say that those who keep their possessions, farms, stand before laws that make them almost insurmountable or worthless. However, it is also important that the Council, the General, be aware of what evolution is developing and be aware of what this may lead to. We see too many soils in Iceland today being destroyed, with a lot of people getting sick, and many reasons for that. However, it is this way, a respected president, that since 2016 the population has again increased to a rural area in Iceland. That is the first time since 1906. It's a happy development because I think it's extremely important for all of us, whether we look at it from ourselves, from Icelanders, but also because it's the most interesting country for tourists, that it's inhabited, that it's strong and that it's strong. This is an extremely fragile development, and a big game is how we deal with trades and trades or exchanges in Iceland. This is the main source of the bill that I and other members of Parliament showed on the cards during the past winter and the highest. Aggressor has brought this up to his own material interests. There are other factors, of course, that can determine the interest in farm shops and whether it is a big problem for property to be added to. It is, in fact, a division of meanings. I think about the factor, possession of farms, how difficult it is, e.g. To get them from generation to generation, we have to look to a lot more factors than just fixing salmon and trout fishing. As a result, the economic concentrations of people living in rural areas, or because of areas where farms can be operated, are much more likely to be viewed as a tax system, so to put it plainly, this often results in high ground prices from restitution based on agriculture. Should the lawgiver intervene and take property from people? I don't really think that's what we mean. We are far more likely to mean that people who want to live in rural areas, whether they intend to live with cows and sheep or to run design companies and use modern communication or to build powerful tourism. It is natural that we want to see the settlement evolve and the question of how we can make it possible. Then I will stop more often than not from the tax system, which in many ways is discouraging and burdensome for older people, to transfer such things to their descendants or to younger people who are not related to them, and how we treat marketable farming, taxing them, and how these things have been carried out in recent years. For a very long period of time, older farmers were not moving these possessions to their offspring to ensure continued farming and farming on food prices, but this time taxation has changed, so the tax is concerned about being transferred from generation to generation to generation at an abnormal price, as they say. Whether this is the case or not, I consider it a very important game in this and have been called very much upon in the political debates that have been out of the country, in terms of the interests of those who are holding off the important resource of salmon and trout fishing, and not as much as those who look ahead of the development of the community that I was describing as at a particular crossroad. On the other hand, it is a joy, as I attributed, to see that it is an interest to settle in the countryside, that is an interest in building up other activities, but only those directly based on land use in the old traditional sense, and I think that the right thing to do is to do exactly what is reflected there. There is not just one matter of Congress, and there is not just one subject, and there is no rule or order in the material that will apply. It takes a much wider approach and a much more comprehensive approach to make such a revolution succeed. A respectable president. I support this bill, of course, but in no way in my mind is being suggested that the situation will be worse with some minorities after the treatment has ended. On the other hand, at the end of the talk, I want to remind you of the main purpose of the law on salmon and trout fishing based on building and living in the countryside. That's the opening point we must always have in the management of the law and the handling of the entire law, which is economicly important to the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating this bill to legalize the change in salmon and trout law, where the main ingredient is a stronger minority protection, making remunerations, and making changes in cost of money at the head of a retail board. I think this is a very important case and help to support the law on the resources of the country. I want to thank you both. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who next spoke before me for his initiative in this field when he gave a bill last year and, if not the host mentioned in his speech, answer many things. I emphasize that the original purpose of the salmon and trout fishing law was to support farming and to live in the street around the country. The memory protection proposed in this bill is, as noted earlier, one of the puzzles that must be acceptable to create conditions and circumstances for those who want to settle in the rural area, and is therefore closely related to the proposal for the interpretation of a global action programme that I proposed earlier in winter, along with all the members of the Agency. This is exactly where the 7th team says that land-making laws and land resources will be reviewed, including the salmon and trout law, which often go under the name of a fishing law. It discusses these sections, particularly the importance of the understanding of land responsibilities and responsibilities. I believe that the obligation to participate in a fishing society is part of shouldering responsibilities and responsibilities that result from having a country of hunting fun. How important it is that we explain why this obligation is being made! The fishing industry at the fishing year is a matter of environmental and resource development and, as noted earlier, an important development. A warm home has been a basis for dwelling on many earths in the land. They have been for centuries, and they still are. Therefore, we look at the weaknesses of areas in which local areas are in smaller parts of hunting societies, and the profits have ceased to become part of society. It directly affects both the rural areas and also the community as a result of urban activities, both in rural areas and in other rural areas. It is important that we examine all the ways in which our country earns its income to those who want to live in the rural area and to the rural population. The current situation and is on the way to the job committee is, I think, an important opportunity for that committee to examine both the contents of the case from all sides but more closely how the income will be made to the community around them. Of course, this has been done by law before, when it was guaranteed that a load would not be separated from an apartment. It is important to consider how this can be further guaranteed, since it is important that income and value follow the soil and ensure continuous entry into communities, not one high payment once. The memory protection is determined to ensure the right of every member of the hunting society, which is often a matter of ensuring the rights of those next to you, who truly live in the community. Of course, as mentioned in the Supreme Court. Minister, there are other ways to look closely at the objective of the job, but as if this is what I see today, it seems like a reasonable way. Similarly, at the end of this, I think this is an important opportunity for the committee and I would like to encourage her to discuss the whole salmon and trout fishing law from the original purpose of supporting farm living.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u50	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his introduction to this discussion about changing the law on salmon and trout fishing. I'll say that I'm in favor of the bill's main objective, and it's a pleasure when you see the authority taking it by the members of Congress and finishing the council. As we know the days of our senators often upstairs, and less ministers, so I'm glad that this bill is here. Here, for example, the matter is handled well and assumed that it is a minority protection, that it is an motive and necessity. In English, you can say that you are responding to any purchase on the land. Sadly, this is to deal with the fact that big businessmen are buying up land on too much scale, buying out benefits first and last time, including salmon fishing year and access to water. This is one aspect of responding as we have been traced. I can say as much as I can. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson went over in his speech, we have faced what it means to have lived in the scattered regions of the country. As he came in, the main purpose of a layer of salmon and trout fishing is to strengthen and support such settlements. Now, we look at the fact that it is no longer the case when the lights have been turned off in a lot of farm houses, and the main reason is that some have become monotonous and do what they please, whether it is to give up money, build fishing houses, make salmon stairs, or a god knows what to do. This bill is likely to ensure that such decisions cannot be made except by other owners involved in these benefits. The bill tells us that these are some 4,500 farms and that the largest income of hunting is in Western, northern, and southern countries. It is obvious that much of the landowners are benefiting from the decisions these fishing companies make. As we have discussed with the other matters, this purchase, this is one of the things that have been going on there. If the bill becomes a law, I wonder if it's a direct influence on whether a person has a mind to buy up the ground in as much as we've seen, if that's the result. As in the other issue, when we have discussed the purchase, the question arises: Will we ever become buried if we somehow limit the property of the one on earth? We might ask: If we want to avoid buying, are we making the value of possessions inferior? I don't think so. I think we can stop that from happening. However, a minister's repeated objection must be respected, of course, that the committee reviews this method and other methods, and it is likely to enter a saying that not all agree with the same procedure. Thus, those who have bought up land under certain laws may wonder whether we are directly detracting from their purchases and possessions. Well, then I'm not talking for purchases at all, so be clear, but this is something that needs to be considered, what's underneath, and I trust the committee to do it very well. I feel that what we should always walk out of our way and watch is exactly what we're supposed to be doing. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir came in and more, the social responsibility and the fact that this is one of our country's resources. Lands and rivers depend on them, and they must not leave the country even if it is part of a society or something like that. I think it's very important that they return to society. That is why I think that one of the things we need to consider is whether this is not one of the ways that leads to money and money left behind in the community. I say again that I support the objective of this bill and hope that the committee can cross it and give up before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u51	Mr. President. I wanted to discuss only the changes presented here and the contents of a report, as well as other factors related to this matter that could have been handled along the way. For one thing, I've been working around the Icelandic fishing year since 1984, that I think, and I've watched and seen how this has been happening. These are all suggested in three main areas, in the case of subsidiary protection, the change of the arrangements of the financial committee, and then the public in paying expenses for the activities of that committee. This was a review of the appearance of the hunting clubs and their role and the purpose of the law to build up and live in the countryside. I think it's right to remember Þór Guðjónsson, former hunting director, and Einar Hannesson's office manager, who in time worked to establish the system we live in, the social network around the hunting industry that has been successful in the process. Of course, changes have had to be made and developed as well as to accept new challenges that have come along. I got to know and work with these guys at the beginning of my career. It is an important heritage that they leave behind, and then they continue on the road. What I really miss in my eyes and miss a review of the bill and the report is that I soon realized that there has not been a great deal of consultation with the hunting community, the port of the hunting, which has over the years been very important and has been a good relationship and consultation with the Department of Agriculture with these stakeholders. I emphasize that there will be further progress, especially if large and substantial changes are being made. I'm not going to discuss much of the minor protection that's important. Then there are possible all kinds of exports, what seems fair and otherwise with regard to duties in the art of hunting companies, interpretation of property rights, and other factors that certainly need to be handled, careful and important, that in this case, a good and successful outcome is reached in cooperation with the hunting rights itself, not least with the basic objective of all times that we want to strengthen our country's settlements and habitats with the laws that deal with this category. Other than that, I'm not going to discuss the proposal of the minority protection. I expect that this aspect will be a major discussion in the next few days. Hopefully, it will be a careful and successful discussion. This article discusses other points that I would like to discuss. I don't think it's any less necessary to look after them. First, when these changes and laws are being made, the opportunity should be taken as much as possible and taken into consideration by other factors that are being developed and the fishing companies are involved. It's, for example. Even more complicated by hunting companies in large lakes, many of which have mixed divisions. I take, for example, the Théofur Fishing Company, but I have not been in the business of it for 20 years. On the other hand, divisions such as Homeland Farmers' Fishing Company, Seamund Year Hunting Association, and North Year Fishing Association are having problems following up their obligations and maintaining their activities because of the difficult situation in which it is difficult to settle, being a member of a non - living partner. I would have, for example. I wish this opportunity had been used to deal with these things. There are also some in the South and around the country where there are many separate lakes and rivers in the same lakes where there is a need to balance interest and ensure that this will work. As things have been developing, individual soils are also becoming more and more earth's owners. Owners fall away, and an all - out group of heirs even receives the respective ground, groups can go up in the least, and there will be even more problems for the hunting companies, when they have to do, for example. big changes, new approvals, or big decisions that matter, reach the owners. How does one person do so when 50 owners may be left to one earth? I mention this as an example of a subject that would have to be better solved. This I know of a lot of communication with the hunters. This is among their relevant issues and has no solution. A fishing room and others to whom they are to turn have no answers. Other such projects could be mentioned that I would like to be taken down in the process. Then I'd like to come to the renovations of the commissions. It shows that greater knowledge comes from evaluating the value of individual soils. I have sometimes wondered, even for decades, in the study of individual rivers, that since it has been prepared and used by legalists and others who have no knowledge or experience in that field, and even without asking further explanations or getting light on some of the things that they would like to know more about. I think there are many ways to improve the level of professional knowledge around these meals, even though they are somewhat cut and cut. As seen at the highest. Ministers of old are looking on the length of the banks, the number of hunting, and the increase of livestock; but they are also the work of men. I found out in my 12 constituted career as the head of the Medieval Institute for the development of meals that are still being worked by. In fact, not much has happened to develop them over the last 15 years. In view of what habitats have become important in interest evaluation, being up to one third of the evaluation, there is reason to put more and more effort into going back and forth into the way they have proved to be and develop them so that they reflect as much the reality and the true value of these areas. I miss it a little, and they don't even reflect everything you see. I encourage them to be promoted if they are to have more value than they have been. Evolution has been during the past few years. I've worked many such meals myself, and I think I know what I'm talking about in that regard. Here's a suggestion that the Merit Research Institute contributes, or directs, members to appoint the committee, which will be involved in replacing these money files with rivers and then, in the power of having more knowledge than any legal guardians. To a certain extent, it is good. However, I would like to stress that it is not in my opinion that someone will evaluate his own work to some degree. It does not really work that the Agency, which performs services, operates habitats, and researches in fishing, regulates interest assessments and should work out its own data and evaluate them. They need to ensure that they are involved in the education, experience and ability to perform those not working for the Agency in this way. I say for myself, because I've done such research, I can't imagine being back in the seat of the judge to start counting on Earth from my research and even from my own habitats. So I'm totally denying that it's like this. In fact, the National Union has also pointed to this, and if I may refer to its review from October 23, that says: In the bill, a minister is expected to have one representative, as directed by the National Research Centre. Most of the cases that will be set up on a financial committee have agricultural food that is often produced by the Marine Research Institute. In the meantime, a representative will take his position on habitat food that is prepared by the same agency as his appointment. The Commission's position on the habitat assessment can be of great importance to the remuneration, and it may be reasoned that a representative designated by the Marine Research Institute would be unable to deal with agricultural assessments working by the same agency and to evaluate its relevance. I strongly suggest that this should be addressed primarily by qualified and educated individuals, as I believe the objective of change is, but not that there may be some conflict of interest that will become unchanged here. That's a particular adjustment I suggest. Then there are other things I wonder about. Regarding subsidies from the government in paying expenses from the Committee it seems that this has not been much of the management process, neither the labor effort nor the cost of an animal on the part of the Ministry. It seems that the hunters want to continue this and fear that this could even be for convenience and expense. A valuable tax may be introduced and other factors needed for further consideration, but the Ministry has also held the bills and the points referred to in these areas. That's what I'm calling attention to. Then I can't resist asking the highest. A minister to one point indicated in the report. It suggests that by means of the bill, changes will be made to the order of a requisition committee in hunting communities to ensure increased expertise in the arts of the Committee of Fisheries. That's fine. Then I ask the highest possible cost. A minister whether he values it so that professional knowledge and the experience of oceanographers are less valuable than the work of law - educated people. I think it's important to keep it up, or they'll explain what the cost reduction is. Like I've tore up there's a lot of stuff to go over. There are things I want to be different, and things I think should have taken over on the way. Finally, I would like to link this discussion with a statement that last night a work meeting was held in the leading part of the establishment of a salmon facility and an informative facility linked to the arms industry and will be curious to link some projects in that category. I'd like to mention, in this connection, to form a hunting registration and the fishing work for trout and salmon that have been used without an invitation over the years at Veterans Institute and then Edro. There would be one or two jobs, and it could be a very important mail for such an instructor's office to delegate such tasks to the armed forces.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u52	President. It seems to me that after watching the discussions and reviewing the bill itself, it's about three things. One is that the State's exchange will be taken out in terms of cost, and no doubt it's just a good thing. The minister reasoned, and I will take a closer look at the committee through the State for collections of expenses. Second, it is minor protection. That's interesting. I spoke to people in the dining room earlier and after listening to a talk. paritaprevir It seems to me that Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beess are beginning to buy so much that their influence within the current legal framework has become greater than that of the domestics. It is good to put a minority protection, but it is interesting that it does not come until the domestic wealthy are losing their influence in foreign lands. Third, when I examined the bill that was originally submitted in its own time, I saw that the Supreme Court should appoint two members of the committee and the European Union alone. This was changed into the council's treatment, so the minister himself appoints himself without a form, but now the Supreme Court is about to remove the case as well as the need for a regional judge. When that happens, when a member of the Independence Party suggests limiting the way of the Supreme Court, the bells ring with me because we have already seen a judge's appointment, and so on, the Independence Party or some particular gang within it seems to be in a particular war, I might say, to the gang that is within the courts. There are gangs in both places, and both sides want to run our judiciary system. There's a small point about the order of this committee, but as soon as I see these ring bells. Why? If so, it must be clear that this is on a grammatical basis. The original rights to make two were reduced to one and are now to remove it completely. Then, if such knowledge were found, it could be said that a minister would need fishy knowledge. It is not necessary to completely remove the experiences that were deemed necessary for two persons. The number of sides down to one could be reduced, the Supreme Court may continue a single party, but it would add that the rest of the parties have the fishing experience, those with the National Association of Fishers and Ministers of the Order. You can reach both goals. I'd like to ask a minister if he's against keeping it inside that the Supreme Court ship on the committee or at least that one of them has experience with a local judge, yet it is still possible to come to the other viewpoints that the other members of the Committee need to have a fishing knowledge so that both views will be reached. If it's not possible, bells in my head will ring again that this is part of a particular war between those who want to rule the court of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussion that has taken place and have been in the expected areas, except for what was the last thing that happened. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson said I was running around with some independent gang against the class of judges' gang. This presentation is amazing, that I'm doing some kind of war. This can be a part of human experience, but it's beyond reality. This has nothing to do with mental activity, so I'm trying to calm down now. A senator with that. The views presented during the discussion are that I think it's the best way to deal with this situation in the prosecuting process. However, two questions were addressed to me during the discussion that I am both kindly and obliged to take action. First of all, the word "wow." paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson to see if the goal was to pay people with a fishing education some less pay than those with legal education. That's not true. That's not true. A senator can read the bill with the bill, which is taken up directly from a report published on the job of a retail committee based on the work group in 2015. In that room, the Federal Institutes of Fishing and the National Union were represented, along with the members of the Ministry. This led to the conclusion of the work group, trying to reduce the cost of making money, not necessarily by paying less for work or anything like it. They just found the cost to the arrangement that had been growing without cause. In this regard, there are explanations both of hunting rights, of the fishing industry, and of the Hunting Department. Hv. A senator mentioned that it is desirable to have more consultation with a local hunting partner. It was consulted with the hunting companies at this point. They sent in reviews, we signed those cases, etc. It may be that humans do not like the conclusion as it appears, but it must be. But it is not possible to make such a recommendation that they have not been consulted and have not given the opportunity to get to their point of view. In addition, the two suggestions on making a sale and the committee base on the proposal and results of the work involved in the National Association of Fishers. The answer is partly to those thinkers who passed by. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson earlier noted that in the report of this group, attention was shown to show that there was no requirement for fishing knowledge or knowledge, although much of the evaluation was involved in the field of education. It sounds to me during the discussion that everyone agrees that this is happening. However, the same assessment as this was done objectively to provide a benefit-risk assessment based on information on already available in most cases. As a result, this group, the Hunting Office, and the National Union of Fishing Association have noticed that since all of these are more and less important, it is strange that this cost of interest evaluation increases year after year. I'm sure I'd like to react, because it's part of my bill. I have no prejudice against the Supreme Court, nor of the judges of the land, at all, and have trusted them for all good works. However, as a result of a review of the case, I suggested this in such a way, and I expect that the views presented here are repeated to the employment committee, making them depending on the circumstances, if they seem to be so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u54	President. The sound of the warning bell does not mean that there is some resolve with a minister. The alarms just sound, and then you ask because you need answers. Now I have not found answers to what I asked. Yes, it is a matter of the fact that fishing experience is inserted. It's challenging and you can install it without taking out a request for a state judge or the Supreme Court appoints a man on the committee. That's something you can do, and that's why I'm asking, and that's why I'm calling my alarm. I've been very closely observing all this process regarding the National Court order. I repeatedly saw the type of conflict that took place there. I mentioned it in support of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, then Sigríður Á. Andersen, listed the judges who came from the committee's committee was not perfunctory. Justice minister had the right to change him, but he just had to do so according to the law. I've observed this conflict in my own eyes where people are competing for it. Of course, who are appointed judges of the land? I'm just watching because I know things like that happen behind the scenes. I have not yet received legal reasons for taking out judge experience or for appointing the Supreme Court even if the other is inserted. You can do both. I'll keep an eye on this until I get some objective results. The minister himself did not know why this was done, but I do not suppose he had written the bill himself. But someone did, and this led to a conclusion, and we need to have some serious reasons to deal with this experience and the Supreme Court. You can keep it in, but you can put fishing experience in on top of it and Edro. That's why I keep a close eye on this and will continue to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u55	A respectable president. I think it's challenging to have the committee as large as it is, not to be increasing in it, and to change the emphasis on work, i.e. That there's more trade in her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u56	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u57	With all due respect to local courts, they may be allowed to play with this matter with their expertise. Thus, if there is a disagreement about interest, judgment is just given, but most of this is no disagreement because it is being processed by relatively well - known variables. I ask what reason we should have someone with the law at this job if we can get access to someone with a different education and better use to the work under it. On that foundation I present it. I think we'll get a more professional and better job in terms of the work we're supposed to do, evaluating the value of what in the river thrives, or fishing water. Again with all due respect for local courts, I feel that biologists, biologists, and other educated individuals in these areas are more qualified to do so than judges do. That's my objective view. And then we can represent in the back rooms theories that we had. There's a senator with the abyss in the politics. It hasn't gone down there yet, and I hope it doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u58	President. No, I hope not. Of course, as I'm saying, we can get our professional knowledge in without taking away the experience of a judge. Then we need to know why they put it at the outset that the Supreme Court should appoint two of the three, and that there should be a judicial experience among the two. There are reasons, and a minister has not been able to answer for that. I haven't had a critical reason for this until he answers, and then the alarm bells keep ringing. I know exactly how things happen behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u59	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister responded only to my speech earlier and is pleased to know that he highly values the work of fishermen, even when it comes to paying them for his work, that there are no tools for it. [[Foreground on, good men.]] It is not always out in the community, so people approach it in that way. The goal of reducing the cost of interest is noble. I'm not sure that this bill is part of it. I think moving the agency from the Ministry won't save any money, at least. not for the people involved. It's good to get more professional in, but there's still trouble. Many smaller fishing companies, perhaps making $2 million each year, are even losing income for one, two or three years because of interest evaluations, charges, and so on. It is very important to find ways for these fishing companies to function and enjoy some of their valuables, even if their precise exchange is not acceptable. This is of smaller importance to more sub- and more economic fishing companies. I emphasize that meetings will be ways to save even more of the cost of making money than at the same time keep professionalism and quality. I reiterate this point to make sure that there are no conflict of interest in food and research and that people sit on all sides of the table. It's just not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u60	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct delinquency damages, but the bill suggests that there will be a special penalties for misdeeds, and at the same time, almost all of the laws of the public penalties that deal with the act of delinquency will be removed. Then there is a concordance of the laws on the national flag of the Icelanders and the national logos, the law on private handling, the treatment of criminal law and the media. The bill was distributed at the General Assembly in 149, but not recommended. It is brought back with one adjustment that will be further described in the following article. Refusement is discussed in chapter 25 of a general penal law that has, to a large extent, remained unchanged in the legal capacity nearly 80 years ago. Since then, many other changes have been made to legislation that has to do with laxness and freedom of expression, with the highest freedom of expression in the Constitution of 73rd. of 1995, and of the legalization of the European Convention on Human Rights in 1994, but in Article 10. the covenant contains regulations that specifically pertain to freedom of expression. As a result of the above human rights regulations, as well as the judicial action of Iceland's Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights, freedom of expression has grown dramatically over the past few decades. Some legal requirements, however, are now being carried out in the words no longer allowing the restriction of freedom of expression. This makes it clear that judging an individual in a one - year prison for insult would not resist the above expressions of freedom of expression. Hence, the law of penalties that deals with delinquency does not really reflect justice nor does the modern view of freedom of expression and defamatoryness as a punishment act. V.E.G. President. I'll now explain the main subject of the bill, but it's suggested that a new set of legislation be laid out in which exclusive measures will be proposed to cope with harshness. There are two types of resources, one on the other, and one on the other. Thus, it will be permitted to allow the innocent and illegal person to hurt an honest person by his expression to pay indiscriminately to the offender as well as to make compensation for financial damage in the event of a switch. The application of the above measures will take into account the causes, the content of expression, and other circumstances. It is assumed that there will be no improvement in the specific circumstances listed in Article 1. The bill, for instance, if it has been shown that comment is consistent or that it is a valid judgment set forth in good faith and has some support in the facts. This is suggested to include only individuals, not lawyers, as well as those close to them will be given the opportunity to ask for error. In addition, there will be an insignificance of delinquency as well as the current authority to judge the amount of money in order to meet the costs of the execution of judgment. This should especially call attention to the fact that the bill is suggested to 1st. Section 12. the law of the flag of the peoples of the Icelanders, and of the sign of the State: but according to the decree, no man shall despise the flag of the people, neither in word nor in deed, holding up prisons for up to one year. Other than that, laws remain unchanged. Finally, though, it should be noted that one change has been made in the bill since its distribution at the General Assembly of the Last legislation, as mentioned earlier. No longer is the change of 95 percent. the law of the law of the law of justice is to be removed, but it discusses the special protection of foreign nations, heads of nations, national flags, and so on. In view of the national commitments made by the United States, it is not right to make such a change. Rather, it requires a little more and more research and special consideration. In some countries, despite changes in the North countries, such protection is still recommended, although it may vary. Changes are not excluded from this directive and will receive further examination in the Ministry, after events in cooperation with the State Department. After that, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I believe in general that this bill is an improvement, and I look forward to seeing it angry through the council and the General and Education Committee. However, I have to state that certain disappointments are not being changed or eliminated. a general penal law, although I have heard it as the highest. A minister said that this article is still being considered. I've given this bill several times to the 95th paragraph. if the law of law is simply out of general law and continues to believe that it does not live there, but it can agree that there may be a need to strengthen the protection of foreign leaders elsewhere in the Law. But I believe that the issue of honor has nothing to do with it, that no special protection is needed from foreign rulers. The flag of the United Nations and the flag of the European Council will, of course, seem to be a bit more protected than the national flag of Iceland. This is a point I would like to consider, and I would like to ask the highest. Minister if she can go a little deeper into the type of work going on in progress to arrive at 95th. Either out - of - date or up - to - date, making it more consistent with modern times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u62	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree more than less with this law. But it may be based primarily on a Vienna agreement on a political relationship that we are involved in, and the rightness and the rule of national rights. It requires not only a personal immunity but also in general to prevent any kind of ransom from his character that only needs to be considered in connection with the laxness. But since these things aren't in this bill, I will start work to see if we can limit it to some extent because we can possibly go too far and maybe take it a little shorter. It is important that Iceland's national rights bonds be fully respected. Of course, at the same time, when Norway made similar changes, this is also the only penalty that remains regarding insults to a representative of foreign countries. There is also tamed in Danmerkur and Sweden. But it needs to be examined, and I agree with it. A senator who will initiate them work in the Ministry and in cooperation with the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it's quite true that we'd rather agree that this is where we need to make some changes. But it's about their implementation, and I'm glad that this work has started, and I think it's very important that it is like the highest level. Ministers have passed through countries have made changes in regulations that are about to be spoken of fairly freely by heads of state, but of course they want to be protected, so to speak. I agree with the importance of that. However, I believe the 95th grade. as it stands at this moment, it is extremely foolish and hope that as a full-scale and educational committee begins to work with this bill, changes will be made, in order to form the requirements for how to treat the flag of the United Nations or the Council of Europe, just so that there is no more protection in them than the National flag of Iceland, because I am very much in agreement with the changes presented here on our flag. As soon as I declare that certain disappointments are resolved beyond the reach of the 95th parr. I'm glad we're working on the Ministry of Justice, hoping that a General and Education Committee can take some steps on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for and agree that with the bill, there is a very important step to disintegrating punishments regarding damages, as well as national flags, etc. towards greater freedom of expression. Of course, a consideration of this law needs to be followed, and I rejoice at it. A global and educational committee will consider this, but it has to happen in accordance with the fact that we are fulfilling our national rights commitments at the same time. To this end, I hope that the matter will be treated well in the committee, but I will also do more in the Ministry to see how we can make changes in this arrangement so that we can continue to fulfill the commitments we have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u65	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill from the Minister of Justice for improvement on charges of injustice, and I'll put a little question mark on that. In the case of delinquency or violations of privacy, Icelanders need to consult courts. Less than a year ago, I pointed out that there are certain offenders in the Supreme Court, where you can type a social security number, get the name, address and personal information from medical records, etc. This is not a matter for many. Of course, this is a serious and demeaning matter for certain groups that, as they claim to be themselves, may take judicial action and ask for improvements due to the violations of the Supreme Court or the courts. I don't know what work has been done in this case, and I ask that question. I know the case hasn't been completely won. There are already court decisions to enter and there the social security numbers, e.g. My own social security number, address, medical records, all information, rights and wrongs. There is no one who can determine what is right and what is wrong. This is a serious matter. More important, this too may be under information from men who are called to witness to the judgment. That's why I say we have to try and start over there. Otherwise, the State may be in great harm's way. Does the minister agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, of course, agrees with him that the publication of judgments requires full protection of privacy and personal protection. There's another job going on at the Ministry. But there is nothing that changes in this bill regarding penalties and either privacy or personal protection. They've been working on it in the Ministry, and one of the bill's views has been made clear to change the law and to guard against personal protection. There's an example, like a snooze. There are also other examples to address the personal protection of children, as well as other cases of violations, and the release of judgments to be considered. I will make every effort to examine this at the Ministry and work on preventing this from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u67	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and sincerely hope that this work will start. But I always feel like we're starting on the wrong end. I think it would have been better to start by making sure this changed. I don't understand why it's been a year and nothing changes, nothing. There's something else I don't understand, which is that there is a holding society like the Four Juriss. There you can go in and get this information, enter a social security number, on your name, to your address. I think it's a serious matter. I know that these cases have been judged in which personal information was published about an invalid person. I think we should have started there. I don't understand why it hasn't started. Instead, we're going to make some money for the sake of revenge. First, we should keep people from seeking improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u68	A respectable president. This bill should have come after something else. I still think the bill is very timeless, leaving punishment for error and having the penalties that conflict with freedom of expression and a policy of reform for error. That doesn't mean it's less or more important than anything that's going on in the Ministry. As I said before, personal protection is very important at the release of court decisions, both in children and in children. .............. A senator mentions, and I'll look at it. However, it is not directly related to this matter, although it is important to get it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u69	President. I'm glad the bill's out. This is part of a work started by the prime minister for the protection and promotion of freedom of expression, freedom of media, privacy, the protection of informers, etc. On the basis of controversy. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir suggested that Iceland create a special position in these matters, which the General agreed to agree with. It's a pleasure. When was it submitted? I'm reminded it was adopted in 2010. It has taken time, but once again it shows that it is important that the rulers of the land care about matters. Then they'll have a course. I know it's the highest. A minister is very concerned about his freedom of expression, so I congratulate her on putting it into practice. What comes out there is a point that, as the minister went over, is being taken out of penalties; delinquency is no longer a matter of concern, as it is important that if someone else expresses himself, his freedom can be taken away from him. Happily, we no longer have such a community that if you express yourself about an individual and even tell the truth, as is the law today, you can put a person in prison. By taking these things out, the general penalties of these laws are being removed for good and put in place that, of course, people, however, will, be able to render an account of their words, and if they harm others well, the one to whom the damage is done may be brought in damages. There must be an accounting, but there are factors in which many of us are already in our legal records, but we get it clearly into the law, as the b-joins 1. The one who expresses himself will be protected if the comment has been shown to be consistent with the truth. A person who tells the truth is always 100 percent protected if someone else wants to sue the person and seek compensation. The person who tells the truth is 100 percent protected. It is extremely important to get this clearly into the law. Let us consider just the articles that are released from the general law of justice. I'm gonna read one article, it's a little funny, and it shows how much of this has become out - of - date and has to be updated. Two hundred and thirty-seventh. says: Even if a person uses a brother for no reason, it takes responsibility, even if he speaks the truth. Brigslin is that if you say about someone else that his behavior was somehow undesirable, etc. with no reason, it has to do with fines, though he may be telling the truth. Last case before the courts that was charged on this basis was when Þórbergur, Þórðarson, told of some minister's son that he had been a Nazi - who had been a Nazi and had been in the SS. Yet, Þórbergur, the son of Þórðarson, could be prosecuted on that basis - even if he was telling the truth. Again, I thank the council that approved the Senate resolution proposal at the outset, I think that it was in 2010, I thank Birgitta Jónsdóttir who proposed it, Prime Minister for bringing it together on that basis, forming a working force, nine primes on the basis of promoting expression freedom, press freedom, protection of informers, etc. which ensures that we can gain better access to information, we are protected if we have a more objective and democratic discussion, and that it is completely out of Icelandic law that people can be put in jail on that basis. Of course, I thank the Minister again very much for the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of fence laws where fairness is intended on matters that may arise when, for example, an example. there is a high economic initiative in the Member States or if a fence demand appears to be developed to achieve non-standard targets. Artists are the Central Party party, and I want to say a few words on the subject. In the 5th. August, No. 135/2001, according to the principle that if he wishes to make it, he has the right to demand that the country's assigned fences pay the fence costs in equal terms, taking into account the length of fences for each country. Is that rule normal and is not expected to be abandoned as a principle? Nevertheless, it would be proper to make a defense that the rule would not be used if that conclusion were evidently considered unfair to those to whom the requirement is directed. It would be especially viewed by the party's position, especially by a financial position. If there is a marked difference between parties, so that there would be a considerable delay in the requirement, and it would be expected that the cost would be considerably heavier to him, there would be a general likelihood that it would be unfair to accept the requirement in part or in all respects. The bill expects the exception rule 2.mg. so that a requirement should be taken into consideration only to the point that it will not be considered unfair. Thus, it may either result in a loss or a reduction in the volume of payment of the slave's insistent requirement to be decomposed so that it no longer seems unreasonable. In view of the reasonable requirement, it should also be looked at, for some such incident may make it unfair to do so. It might be noted, for example, that the requirement to achieve an undeserved goal, such as the purchase of the earth, would be considered likely to be specifically required. It is not expected that by evaluating if the fence demand is considered to be unfair, it will be considered to be particularly beneficial to the target of the fence. However, if the fence is considered to be of limited value to both and all sources in the light of natural use of the land, it is more likely that a fence demand would be set forward to achieve an unwanted goal and therefore unfair because of an incident behind it. A law that relies on unfairness is in its nature an ecstatic, which has several precedents in the Law library. Since there is a law against the exception of a principle, it is reasonable that the law will be interpreted narrowly, as shown by the examples of similar laws of other laws. In accordance with local law, judges must be in accordance with Article 7. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 Decisions on fence costs. This is not expected to be altered, but among the potential causes of decision-making, the view of fairness will be demanded of the costs of fusion. The factors that are expected to come to mind on cost change are that at least one factor should be considered. one professional is a law major. For this purpose, it is with 2 st. The bill suggested that the professional member designated by the county representative of the 1st suit. 7. to meet more closely the specific requirements of being appointed to a local judge according to legal requirements. Finally, the bill has a period of about six months before the decision-making date, whether in part or in all, does not mean that the person does not fully submit to the decision. It is expected that such judicial cases will be appealed to the council members in which the controversial fence is located. The Liggi fence for more than one council chief is in charge of each of them. It will also be permitted to appeal to such matters according to the rules set out in Section V on personal handling. A respectable president. This case, however, is true in recent years and in previous years, where it may be clear that an application in the land reached a point where the people reported the proposed cohesion, a frontal fence, to the obvious point of pushing the earth's sales that had failed to succeed in buying. When such unfair economic conditions arise, a person with less power should have the potential for a reasonable view, as is outlined here. Such scenes arose on the northeast corner of the country without my going to give specific examples. I think it would be a great improvement if landowners had the option to appeal to their decision in this way when the main purpose of a common fence seems to be to force men to sell the earth. Finally, I suggest that this case be closed to a discussion referred to a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u71	Mr. President. I recommend a bill for a constitution of the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland submitted by all members of the United States and Pirata. The matter was first submitted to the Council of 145, then to 149, and finally, now. The matter did not succeed and is now being moved unchanged. The matter, in itself, should not have to be largely introduced at a council or to the public in the country. Few cases have been based on the same public involvement and discussed as much at the council. So I'm not going to go into the unique articles of the bill, end up not having time, but they are well explained by their origins and purposes for the bill itself. However, a brief review of the case is inevitable, since the method used is strong evidence that the matter will be discussed detailedly, taken seriously by the Council and settled at the end of the season. Granted, changes in the Constitution are discussed at the scene of all the presidents, so some may ask: Why is this total contribution being made today? To answer, it is far from what was promised in its time and much rather the result of the permanence then held as an independent group, as well as an forward group, in the spring months of 2013. The case, as previously said, did not come true then, did not even come to a vote. As a result, work was resumed on the officers'board, as previously said, without causing significant results. This did not happen during the 2016 and 2017 terms, but for the initiatives of the current Supreme Court. Prime Ministers continued their work directors. According to a secretary's memo at the beginning of the work, a total review of two terms should be sought and the major work being reviewed in recent years, such as A public meeting, a board of directors, and a board of directors, as well as a board of directors of 20053/42007 and 2013◯2016; also the ◆ much social discussion that has taken place, discussions and committees at the General Assembly, as well as voters' position to the extent they have already presented, as stated in the memoir. The representatives of the United States and Pirata are in the Prime Minister's Committee for Review of the Constitution, where they have their new membership to promote a bill of the Council of Government. It was clear from the highest. Prime Minister that no member of the committee has a denial authority. The job will be done regardless of whether one or more agents will report it, and there is more to it than that. So it would be inconceivable to leave those jobs, but at the same time it reminds us that this attitude is the highest. One prime minister weakens the argument of those who say that a suggestion such as the one recommended here is bad, since completeness or the greatest harmony is needed. While there have certainly been an excellent exchange of opinions, there are a number of aspects of the Commission, which are clear and should not be shy or surprised to recognize that there is a wide difference of opinion in the views of the classes on the basis of individual rules. It is still a long time before people can make a suggestion that is somewhat broad and a good deal of peace. We are also, as previously said, come a long way from the work and thinking that was behind the fact that this process began ten years ago. It then seems that the understanding that the Chairman's work now includes a general review of things that have washed up, that the chairman of the Independence Party for October 8 was that he did not feel the need for an overall reexamination of the Constitution, but would be expected to continue working with the main provisions for resource, environment, national regulations, and exposition laws. Although he added that he had respect for the different ways of seeing these things, he believed that the group was in the process of a discussion that is outside what he feels is needed to discuss. The head of the Central Party agrees with the contents of the accounting at the next meeting. However, the overall review of the Constitution was at the highest level. At the beginning of the work, the prime minister made a big introduction to the presidents. I will continue to participate in the activities of the Committee, but there we do not have the program. The bill here is simply the way we would like to go. It also points out that the people have voted and agreed to propose the Council of Government, to which this bill is based, will be proposed as a basis for a complete review. Therefore, I think it is good to receive this bill at the council right now for a discussion in the hall and at committee meetings, not to be talked about in hearsay and visitors to the Committee. Most of the people sitting here today do not want to do so for the season of 20091⁄2013, and we do well to review this proposal and finally vote for it at the end of the crossing. So today, four days after seven years since the anniversary of the U.S. Court's Pay, 20 October 20th, 20th, 20th, 20th October 20th, the United States and Piratar set forward this bill and set out to continue working on the sentence of the new constitution of the year 2013. I remind you that the nation is the chairman of the Constitution. The senators and leaders of the nation will be and should at least respect the decision of those who have the authority to set guidelines for them. It is obligatory for elected agents to bring a new constitution into law, thus respecting the nation's will in elections. Let us, then, move on in the history of the matter on a very short and fragile matter. In 2010 the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir proposed, and it was adopted in the General Assembly that the election would be elected to a special administrative body that was intended to revise the republic's constitution. The Constitution was specifically designed to address the foundations of the Icelandic administration and its main core concept, the order of legislators and executives, the role and position of the President of the Republic, the independence of courts and their monitoring of other government officials, the elections and the votes, the democratic involvement of the public, the expeditation of state to international institutions and foreign treatments, and the environment, including the possession and use of natural resources. Although these factors were to be taken into consideration, it was also stated that a administrative committee should be able to discuss additional factors. In addition, the General Assembly chose a special administrative committee in 2010 designed to prepare and conduct a national meeting on the Constitution, which would be called according to main points and the public emphasis on the government of the country and its constitution and changes. A administrative committee was to process information gathered at the National Conference and deliver it to a administrative body when it came together. A national convention on the Constitution of Iceland was then held at a Saturday, November 6, 2010, Saturday, Saturday, Hall of Saturday, Saturday. 950 people from all over the country attended the meeting, people from the age of 18 in the country. The gender was almost equal. In addition, some 200 relief workers handled the meeting. The meeting was designed to provide a key focus for the public regarding the government of the country and its constitution and its changes. During the meeting, representatives discussed ideals and values as the basis for the new constitution. There was some suggestions on the input of the new constitution. The meeting provided tips, recommendations, and recommendations to a administrative body, Generals, to the press and others who would continue to cover and complete work on this new constitution. A group of 50 worked with the results of the meeting, and they were presented on November 7, 2010. An election for a government council was followed on November 27, 2010, and 522 individuals volunteered. So it was a more complex election than the Icelanders are used to, and it paid a total of 83,531 votes in elections of about 36% election party. A government council ended with a council of 25 people. The Government Council was appointed to submit proposals for changes to the Czech Constitution of Iceland, No. 33/144, in the form of a bill for a constitution. On April 6, 2011, the Government Council was formally set up, and on that occasion a administrative committee gave their report. The report presented reasoned options for the change in the constitution and discussed a number of subjects that would be needed to consider those jobs. After much work, a snare, and rather short, the Government Council adopted a single bill for a constitution and handed his bill to the President of the General Assembly on July 29, 2011. The Council of Ministers for the Council of Justice for the General Assembly, in the form of a report on October 4, 2011. From October 13, 2011 to February 20, 2012, the proposal and treatment of the matter were discussed with a meeting of the Council's Commission and Control Committee. A number of people sent a management and monitoring committee for the case, either making comments on the subject of the bill or expressing support that the bill would be submitted to a new constitution. Following this, various experts discussed the proposals of a board and answered the committee's questions. At that time, the former representatives of the administrative council were called together for a special four - day meeting. March 2012 The meeting was designed to discuss questions and comments on possible changes to the Council bill. The Council Board of Directors and Commission then discussed various issues of opinion and questions, e.g. In terms of the resource policy, in particular the term full prices, the President's court of hearing, whether it was correct for the election system to be bound into a constitution, and how much the rate of elections of Iceland could require national votes, etc. On March 20, 2012, a greater proportion of the General Commission and Commission proposed a proposal for a resolution to the Council's Council's Legislature to be held by the legislature Act. The proposal was finally adopted at a meeting on May 24, 2012. As the people know and previously noted, the Council of National Order was held on October 20, 2012, seven years ago, after this long process in reviewing the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. More than 114,000 Icelanders participated in this vote, and the result was quite clear, i.e. The most part wanted this document to be submitted to create a new constitution. At the beginning of summer of 2012, the General Specialist Committee appointed a legal committee to review the proposals of a administrative body, resulting in a bill on November 12, 2012. The committee took into account the decision of the National Court and also wrote a complete paper with the bill on the basis of the application of a board of governance. During the 2013 spring Summit, there were many, long, intense discussions about the bill, which, as previously thought, took place among the talk of an independent party and a forwarding party, who allowed nothing to stop the matter - and it succeeded. So here we are now without having lived up to the expectations and promises of the nation. Mr. President. While it is necessary to maintain that a constitution is fundamental, it may be said that we are still using some kind of temporary cash. At times, we do so in a variety of ways, as is known, in vague sources, in regulations, and in lack of control. There's absolutely no need to be afraid of this bill. I'm not giving anything for the propaganda that's being thrown down. The bill is based on legal proposals and is really just a revised and updated version of the old one. One way or another, about 80% of the old constitution can be found in the new as well as in what it contains improvements to import Icelandic law into modern times. Happily, mankind has considerable progress, so it is necessary to establish into the covenant laws that reflect today's attitudes and realities. In fact, something has happened over the past few years that requires an additional addition to this bill. Then it is simply Generalis to reveal it in their dealings with the council and in consultation with the general public. Mr. President. So, after this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to a management and board of directors for further discussion and finally for payment at the council Hall. First, though, I would like to read the word of the new constitution, with the permission of a president: We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state with freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights to cornerstones. Governments shall work on the welfare of the country, promote their culture, and respect the diversity of life, land, and life. We want to promote peace, security, peace, and happiness among us and future generations. We resolve to work with other nations for peace and respect for the earth and for all mankind. In this light, we put ourselves in a new constitution, the highest law in the country to be respected by all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u72	Mr. President. First, I wanted to go inside. A senator slightly depends on how he envisions the contribution of this bill in connection with the work that takes place by the presidents of the political parties. I heard why. A senator entered it earlier, and of course we know that classes approach that work in different ways. But if you can understand why. A senator's overemphasis on the fact that this bill and its presentation would mean that the rest of the work should be unnecessary. Or what? Well, maybe. A senator just explained this to me? The other is that I make comments on his review of the historical background. I find it necessary to promote that the process he is referring to and ended up in the document that has been reprinted and distributed at the council was naturally extremely controversial, not only in this council but also in the community, and very critical of the suggestions there is. There was an analysis of both the matter and the outcome. I also needed to remember that in recent years this recommendation was last given at the General Assembly. Coming along on the same page from the winter of 2012/2013 may not directly account for the fact that something has happened here. There's something here. Three cases have been chosen for the Generalis, three different more items have come into play. So somehow trying to screw your time back is a little unrealistic, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u73	Mr. President. This is no attempt to screw the clock back. However, it would be desirable if an independent party could be reached into the same period. I mentioned in the talk earlier that the committee that is now operating is on the custody of the prime minister. It is set up in such a way that no single group has a negative influence. So it would be very inconceivable for me as an agent not to participate in that work. However, that work is far from being in harmony with what was laid down, and the nation has decided in many ways. Then I also showed that a memo published by the prime minister at the beginning of the work was referred to as a complete review of a constitution during two terms of election. Nevertheless, the leader of the Independence Party decided to book that he did not feel the need to do so. You might ask yourself, " What integrity there is there? ' Is it controversial? Granted, these things are controversial, and they are controversial in the prehuman work, but things don't get a special label disputed just if the Independence Party violates them. I guess it's just a rather rich majority of the nation's population that thinks that there's a lot of change in resource regulations, environmental regulations, national regulations, expeditation regulations, above what you hear, including in these meetings, the Independence Party exists. If this document appears, would it be unnecessary for the chairman's work to be done? Well, if the other officers say: Yes, let's work on this bill, fix it up, and add it, I think it's better if we're working on a complete constitution than we're doing it in a fragile way right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u74	Mr. President. I call attention to the fact that we have a comprehensive constitution, and we can make changes in it so that we can add what we feel is special or change what we believe is a special need. There is no need to be, as a board of laws did, to take every article of current constitutions, 79 articles, and change them, in some respects, in some small things, and then to add 35 new articles. That's a big change. It's true that it's been very controversial whether or not it should go into it. It is not just members of the Independence Party who have opposed it. I call attention to the fact that not during the season of 2009 in 22013, and not in the season of 2013-2016 or 2016-2017, or in the current term, the Independence Party has a majority place here at the council. So it is clear that in the field of Congress the opposition of the Independence Party is not enough. Maybe it's all right to be able to do it here, where the dog is. A senator mentioned the alleged dispute of the winter of 20121⁄2013, quoted this article from Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, probably on Saturday, and a nice government manager, Illugi Jökulsson, called even more insane language code. There have been many comments about this. I wonder how many hours that filibuster's been going on. In 1st and 2nd. for 40 hours. It could not reach the top of the 15th list of filibusters during the past few years here at the council. That was all the madness. So we're just so clear, there was no such thing, even though there was a great opposition between members of the Independence Party and the members of the Foreign Party and, in fact, all scholars on this series and with opinions. It was critical of countless ways, and I think that was the least of all because of the present government groups, greens, and convergences, trying to run this case against 20123/42013.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u75	Mr. President. It is true that the Independence Party has not been in much of its share, and I'm just saying, "Guð God." But for far too long, this class has been in that position, acting in this way. He has had far over what the common people trust in him. I think there are certain water divorces now that both wings of the falcon are about To dull it. He's lowering the flight, and we're watching him sail down below 20%. I think we'll see. There are changes. It's just wrong that some constitution is being overthrown. There is a change in wording. This does not mean necessary changes. They're reordering. Things are being put in context. Speaking of a complete constitution with the constitution we are now, it is similar to talking about independent people and missing chapters 7, 11, 13, and 25. After that, people try to read it for fun. So I think this is a very necessary work we're about to do. I would have no qualms about doing this at the Presidency meetings if it were followed by the Prime Minister's memoir and everyone resolved to work on the big reexamination, and it would be working in the spirit of the motion of a board of governess elected in a national law. That's not what they're doing, so it's just another game that we're playing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u76	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The speaker's Logi, Einarsson, before the talk, is the first mate of the bill, and the time to do so well. But I'm going to go back to the story, because I think it's important to put this important matter, which is the new constitution, in context. But maybe I'm not going to go that far into it. After the public's appeal for social change after the collapse and national meeting of 2009, which addressed the development of society, the future of Iceland, after which the order of the Council was issued in 2010 for a constitution that was decided to vote for a special administrative body to revise the Constitution. The same law established a administrative committee that held another national meeting in 2010 that specifically discussed the new constitution and its revision. In fact, it was a certain continuation of the conversation that began in 2009. It became clear that a new constitution was the key to the common vision that arose with this important conversation. From a administrative body, a administrative body became a administrative body that produced a bill for a new constitution and encouraged the nation to be consulted by national law. The Commission and monitoring committee took over the case and carried out a great deal of work, a great deal of work was put on this case, in which objective criticism was addressed. According to the General Assembly resolution, after the work that the Commission and Control Committee called for, the legislature of the new constitution, which was held on 20 October 2012, where two thirds of those who arrived at the ballot said that a new constitution should be established on the basis of a bill of administration. After the national bill, experts were hired to review the bill in the summer of 2012. This committee made some changes and wrote a complete paper based on the explanation of the governing body. In November 2012, the case was presented until March 2013. While the case was being handled by the Generals, the chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee called it upon the Venetian Committee, the European Council's Committee for Democracy by law. The Commission gave their opinion of the bill, and therefore they were assigned to the Commission's Committee on Control and Control, which was accompanied by an adjustment form that updated the bill according to the comments made there. It should be remembered that this was the last legislature before election 2013. The matter was taken off when the greater part was faced with the debate of the Independence Party and the forward party, which looked like it could take all the time that was left of the council. In fact, it dies there and isn't properly picked up, because it's these two categories that take over the state positions after the 2013 elections, and then it's just put in a drawer. The case we now contribute, the United States and the Pirantars, includes the fact that the bill is presented in the form it was after the work of a board of directors, administration and monitoring committee and Venetian Committee. We adopt the situation as it was left behind. In 2013 and in the hope that now, in 2018, the matter will be continued with the objective of completing this process so that the Icelandic nation will finally receive the Community covenant they required or called after a collapse, after two meetings and national fees. The new constitution reviews all human rights protection in Iceland, promotes and strengthens. It stands far better at the rights of the citizens than in the current constitution. It calls upon the right to life, the right to live with dignity, the prohibition against inhuman treatment, and the protection from violence. Personal freedom, privacy, freedom of expression and justice are all civil rights that are better guaranteed in the new constitution. But that's not the only thing. You see, the new constitution brings power to the nation. It gives them the power to intervene when politicians abuse their power. When members of Parliament and Ministers are about to begin some journey into the people's filth, the nation can stop them. Ten percent of voters can call a national bill with a signing list, and 2% of voters can put in their own legal language and 10% can present a bill that must be paid in the National Remuneration along with the General's countermandment. The new constitution also ensures greater transparency in government activities. It's an enormous democracy which I don't understand that any man can resist. The new constitution puts environmental protection first. III. Chapters are about society and nature. We receive special regulations on the nature of Iceland and the use of nature quality. Respect and protection are on the part of nature. It calls on the common and lasting property of the nation of natural resources that are not private property. The new constitution further marks the authority of politicians, senators, and ministers. It's updated to the present reality. It does not take into account a constitution based on the fact that over Iceland is king. The new constitution was written by the coming of the nation, both men and women. The old constitution was written by Danish men over a century ago and has been transfigured from time to time. The new constitution takes into account today's situation. President. The modeling revolution called for real social change. The government fell, the bank manager withdrew, and the culture changed in some respects, but the requirement for a new constitution remains. The nation is the constitutionr and the requirement is clear. We who contribute this bill are choosing to respect her will and suggest that the Council complete the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u77	V.E.G. President. I always take some defensive position when people use it in their language: the country calls out, the people want. A recent survey shows that the nation has no interest in the new constitution, just not interested, and that the old one is better if something is. [[Take it up: wrong.]] No one's calling for this. I'm not going to give a speech. I was going to ask only one question because it says here that this bill is based on changes within it from a management and monitoring committee, the majority of which are expected, and the Venice Committee's tips. I'm asking why. Senator: Are all warnings and tips from the Venice Committee in there the way they were? I'm telling you, it's not. In itself, there is nothing I can expect to do. A senator knows this, but when changing the constitution, it should not be the way it was done in the situation in the community where the nation was in shock. What politicians thought of, and what was to destroy their energy at that time, in that crisis, was to turn the government of Iceland, bringing in a new constitution produced in a summer's foundation. Though she was tried to tear up and to take into account some comments, this was done only in part. I say one more time: I never realized that the nation had called after this. Of course, the nation is interested in many changes, and they have been accomplished. It is not unnatural to bring the constitution more into the present world than it is, and I am not against any change. You can change a lot of points into the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u78	President. It is not new that the members of the Independence Party are opposed to the new constitutions and this bill we present here. Regarding whether all comments were taken into consideration, I suppose not, since I did not say so in my speech. I said that there was a financial criticism taken into account that came along and probably some form of criticism. But if you do. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's proposal for a change is to be placed in a administrative and monitoring committee which must be the right setting for him to promote his concerns on the most likely professional work being carried out on by the Commission, because I expect this bill to go to the administration and monitoring committee. There's been an enormous amount of work in this document. The senator must agree. I hope so. I'm asking, though it's not a good idea to ask when you're sitting by yourself for answers, whether or not. A senator does not agree that the process of writing a new constitution, with the approach of the country, and all the work that has been done by a administrative body and a management committee, with experts and others who have been involved in the publication, is not democratic, but the process that went into operation when we adopted a constitution from Dana.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u79	V.E.G. President. It may be said that the constitution that went into effect has not had any particularly democratic process, we were not even an independent nation when we adopted it, or we ended up in all these constitutions in the foundation of the same government order. I'm not against change, but it's really important to me how they are being carried out, and it's not in conditions like those that lived when people changed at the time, of course, just with the approach of those who were interested in changing a lot and creating a new constitution. It does not necessarily reflect the nation even though this arrangement was under control. It is true that there was a lot of work to be done on this, a lot of work, especially after the proposals came from the Council of Control. There was a lot of work to do, and it was reviewed by experts, and that is still being done. However, I further emphasize that this will not be done in a way that any group will be elected or appointed, as the Board of Directors did, which follows: Yes, you may be allowed to give some tips and fix this, but the foundation is like this. People didn't have to vote for that. What the people of the country are interested in is mainly two things: national law and resource regulations. By my knowledge the nation has called for nothing else, so that it may be prominent. That's why I think it's important that all changes go forward, I don't talk about big changes and changes, that they'll be done in a fair deal, cross political reconciliation. Otherwise, it'll never be anything we can call a community contract. Then it's just some part knocking down the smaller part. I don't think it was the wise way to go in the years after a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u80	President. I'm just gonna thank you. A senator for establishing and expressing his opinion on the opinions of the Icelandic people and his interpretations of their national will, their feelings about a new constitution, and all that. It's just fine, but I don't agree with it. Senator, I think we are ideologically disagreeable about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u82	That's right. At least I'm glad that I did. A senator agrees that it was not a democratic process that began at the time we accepted the Constitution from Dana. I'm surprised to talk about the need to be parapolitic. I would have thought the most important thing is for the nation to produce a new constitution, that the nation as the chairman of the Constitution would come to this work. That's what's fundamentally important. Hv. The senator must be happy that the Constitution is now being introduced to the administrative and monitoring committee, and he can then promote his views on the work that will be carried out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u83	A respectable president. I'm not gonna put on long numbers. Hv. paritaprevir The way this case was handled and its story was very well explained by the Logi Einar Einarsson, and I'm not going to repeat what he said. I'm just going to remind you that this work started after it had crashed, not only an economic collapse and not just a bank collapse, not just a financial collapse, but also a cultural collapse and a moral breakdown had occurred. People felt that the foundations of society had smiled and that there was a great need for society to be established again. Hence, the mass work that began, as we shall remember in our national meetings, was started. This case was presented last year, also by Congress of Pirata, and there was a few excellent discussions. I remember that reason. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir did even. to a subject, and a subject. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, too, if I recall correctly, 30th par. Current constitution to read, with permission of the president: The President gives, either himself or by hiding it from other governments, an exception to the rules that have been followed so far. I repeat, the rules that have been followed so far. What rules? Has there been any rules that have been followed so far as to be given an exception that has never been granted? How do you follow the rules that have been followed so far if they have never been used? It is not enough that the president can give anywhere and any time from the law. Rather, he can assign other governments to give such freedom. This article has never been activated, and perhaps it is a dead letter, as we also thought about 26. which, in fact, was activated by the former president of Iceland. Such an article, however, is extremely dangerous if in the office of the President of Iceland, a power - stricken individual with a dictatorial act who saw there a way to avoid following law or an emancipating weak president, but a very powerful government, which would include the President to give him such authority to give a waive release from the law that has been followed so far. This article is a natural example of the quality of a well - organized constitution. Here is a law code that is vague and difficult to understand, highly elastic and interpreted. It simply relates to the fundamental authority of those who are to take control of the land and can, in the hands of someone, turn around so that there is even a possibility of autization. I think this article is, and that's why I make it a subject of talk, a fine example of the problem we face, which is especially the fact that various principles of valid constitution are unclear, difficult to interpret, and may have led sometimes to the ability of lawyers to interpret laws of intelligentness and ethicism that have also led to the hardness of the law of man. The new constitution was taken in a long, successful process, and I do not need to remind the Senate of how it was done. There was a good work there, working faithfully and being forgiving at all levels of the matter until the last. But a person still had a feeling, as has actually been shown in this discussion, that lawyers, jurists, politicians, and some generals might have been involved in their affairs. It would even be meddling with something they only had. The Constitution would be the language of the jurists who are struggling to interpret it and cooperate with it. But that's not so, unfortunately. Of course, a constitution will be made only in great and close collaboration with all people who know the best way to work and that was also done. But the other is absolutely fundamental. The Constitution is not a matter of private attorneys and politicians. It's about all of us. The Constitution is not merely about the foundation of our community ship but the day - to - day life for all of us and the future of our children. It's about sustainability, human rights, democracy, social power. These are the basics of all of us. The Constitution is never completely finished, and most of it is in articles such as Article 30. Which I mentioned earlier. The Constitution does not depend on natural laws or on parts of them; it is not like the weather, the mountains, or the sea. It's the work of men. The Constitution is not an external situation that we have nothing to say about. Rather, it is the constitution of the internal circumstances of the community that we personally travel together. We do this by making a covenant with one another regarding principles in our relationships, fundamental principles in our society, fundamental laws, fundamental laws, as the Constitution of neighboring countries, fundamental laws. It's the foundation under everything, living document. What is the need for a change in constitution or a new constitution? Many ask themselves that question. Why do we need to change this? Isn't this just fine just the way it is? Wouldn't this just make sense? many ask. Then I think that is to say that the current constitution has an uncertain nature. You sometimes feel that when you watch Icelandic society over the decades, it has been made up of fingers from legislatures and executives, almost every day of the leading rulers who have taken a number of legal decisions. This new constitution seems to me to be trying to establish more formality, more legality in an Icelandic society that I consider to be a cause for rejoicing. It has repeatedly been observed by scholars that at the Republic Institute, the Constitution was generally viewed as being preliminary and that it had to be revised sooner than later. They write about this one by one, and that was shown in a discussion at the General Assembly. One of the scholars who wrote about this and traced this story well is the current president of Iceland, the Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, who worked years before as a historian and wrote a fine article in 2011, entitled "Talmed to One Night, " and many references are quoted. I'd like to, with President's permission, to read, as I did in fact in a discussion of the matter last year, and then I'm going to repeat it, the conclusion of the excellent article The Guðni. He writes: In writing on the Republic Constitution, the basic fact that it was never intended to remain in the same picture is sometimes minimized by the basic fact that it was never intended to remain in the same picture for long periods of time. provisional media will thus become a model for future solutions. This may be determined by a political attitude. However, the history of the leader of the Republic Constitution clearly shows that there was a temporary compromise. This is especially true of the arrangement for the division of authority between those who say one thing but actually translate another. The Constitution should be clear, but this is not how the preliminary work of 1944 is to be made, for it has become an example to no one, no influence anywhere else in the world. In the leading part of the Republic Institute, members of the Generals rightly wanted to pursue the unity of the nation. They knew that if the political parties undertook a new constitution, they would not succeed. Hence, it was decided to establish an unregistered constitution temporarily and then, as soon as possible, reevaluate it. The republic established by the Icelanders forever and ever, but the Constitution was not, and it could still be seen that she had been composed in much of the Danish canoe, as President Jón said in his own day. So - with the Constitution in mind - that June 17, 1944, the Icelanders camped for one night on the Ting floor in an old Danish tent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u84	Mr. President. I'm going to stop at least two points. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson. First, it is that a constitution, as he rightly points out, is a work of men. The proposal to change the constitution is also human work, and it is not a rejection of criticism, which can bring about changes and such. It also applies to the suggestions of the fine group of those who have been taught to govern, and that is why I believe that all of us must understand the right to have any opinion on the above suggestions. Hv. A senator, as has often been done in the discussions, points out that the Republic's Constitution has been planned for temporary purposes. It is true that during discussions at the council and in the community at that time, a review of the Constitution was expected. Several attacks have been made, and as it is now, the Constitution has probably been changed into one seven stages since the Republic's Constitution was adopted and more of the current constitution has been changed from 1944, just to be kept in mind. Like the weather at times, we have no problem with 1944, let alone 1874. Even with the same foundation, significant changes have occurred. I say for my part and perhaps on behalf of my party that we have always brought up the matter that it was a reason to accept and modify the individual regulations of the Constitution. We have not refused to add a new chapter or to cancel a law like that. Senator said something about the President. We just haven't considered a reason to go to the full - scale transcripts and reviews that this fine board of administration expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. Yes, there were people in the administration board, and thus there are proposals for the human body to act, that is correct. On the other hand, when it came to work, governmental authorities acted on a certain process. It was elected by a government council by specific regulations, and then after the Supreme Court decision, the General Assembly gave representatives of the government council a very strict and clear commission to do their work, after which these people worked and worked with great integrity. I have to say, at times, I have found that I have been able to win a government body. A fine example of how you can work together and how you can relate different viewpoints. They were miraculously able to create this document, which then enters the council, and then the council accepts the rules of matters that come in here. So it was possible to land with a more careful and vigorous work that was not least looked to what scholars had to offer. Since many were critical of various matters in the proposals of the administration, which were taken into account at the council's work, the problem and the good document that we in the United States and the Pirantar have allowed us to reimpose here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u86	V.E.G. President. Of course, there was much work to be done on the scene of the council back then, but it was not finished. A further proportion of the management and monitoring committees, however, offered their suggestions but it is not possible to consider that the process has been completed in any way. I was on the board of administration and monitoring committee at the time of this trial and protesting the claim that the scholars on this subject were highly respected. It was met with a firm and relatively narrow legal comment on things that did not arise in the administration recommendations, but my opinion was very little to listen to serious comments from both political, political, Venetian, and other sources on this subject during the trial. Then there's another story and it's right to keep it all, at least Most of the steps taken in this process were very controversial, as certain experimental activities were being carried forward by the traditional channel of administrative changes, past the direction of the Constitution itself, and often occurred in a field or in a ditch, as is sometimes referred to. Consider an example. The answer is yes or no. It is asked: Should the proposals of a Government Council provide a basis for a new constitution? At a time when this question is asked in a national law, there is no suggestion, such as A panel of experts, then more than any other, had been appointed to review the suggestions. [[The president calls.]] It was all in the middle of a question like that. [[The president calls.]] The question is, what? A senator, whether such simple details of a case, do not weaken the commitment value of such a vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the counter-sponsored. I think it's clear that we're not completely in agreement, but the senator's party, the Independence Party, hopefully and hopefully with all our heart, still participate in the work as the highest level. Prime Minister has set in motion the revision of the Constitution. Hv. A senator spoke of it as being done - I tried to push down the wording - past the usual direction of the Constitution. He spoke of a traditional set of constitutions, and I think it's a little bit of a matter because you can ask, "What was the standard guide of the constitution in the Icelandic Republic? He was about a committee who may have met once a month and had coffee, perhaps at Gunnar Thoroddsenur's home, talking about the constitution and had it pleasant and perhaps became somewhat attached to the fact that there were some things that would need to be corrected when it was a good time and would never return the revision of the Constitution that they were expected to understand because it was always the understanding of those who participated in the Republic of Iceland that this dance constitution was not the constitution that the Icelandic republic should be established long into. [[And a lot of government records changed.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u88	A respectable president. Honesty, respect, justice, equality. These are the clear common values that over 1,200 people agreed about in 2009 to be guided by their work as a new view of the future for Iceland. That work was not done in voids. It was the response to the nation's cry for improvement in society for all, a society that was based on baselines that had been preconceived to bring about the collapse. The discovery was created because of the confidentialities that arose between Congress and nation following the collapse of the bank. Then many woke up to an evil dream and saw that politicians had not handled the commission they had been given to serve in behalf of the nation. A connection between politicians and commerce was too strong and too friendly. The media were sick, unable to carry out their work. Monitoring agencies failed to play their part in the banks, and the government was flying to death. In fact, some inside it were awake on that road while holding hands in opposition to national interests. The Council of Government led the General to a new constitution, a program that was approved by a good majority of votes in the National Code over seven years ago. It is a national agreement that the National Assembly of Iceland has refused to respect, refused to look for a legal route ever since. President. The groups making up Iceland's government today have had a lot of time to ensure that the nation's will for the induction of a new constitution has been taken, but they have all had the opportunity to do so. The forwarding party and the Independence Party chose to insert the constitution into a drawer when they accepted the board of directors in 2013. The left movement, in 2017, made up a government of these groups that have shown by their actions that they oppose the nation's demand for a new covenant of community. No doubt many held votes for the left movement ◯ green supply, votes to the highest level. The prime minister of Jakobsdóttir's daughter Catherine would lead her to use the democratic will of the nation, our chairman of the Constitution. Sadly, though, in the year 2019 much of this council, it is acceptable to keep the new constitution in a drawer and to negotiate further between the individual regulations of the bill. Unfortunately, in 2019, we have a prime minister who sits in the shelter of broken promises, promises she made to her own voters, who, least of all, chose to play the role of a respirator for the development of power, a prime minister who speaks freely about dealing with the public on the Constitution, but who, however, ignores the original constitution to a new constitution in the name of reconciliation and consultation with the Independence Party, a group that has always stood against the new constitution, did little indistinguishment of the national law and the deliberity of the people there. President. At best, this approach describes a greater portion of the General Assembly as a fundamental problem in the nature of the Constitution as a community covenant and the nation as our chairman, the Lawgiver, the rules of democracy. At worst, it describes a seven - year profound opposition from rulers to democracy and a great disrespect for its authority. President. We here are required to take a good example of taking responsibility, to tell the truth and to keep our word, not to hide behind technical bullshit that we have never directly promised not to lead the Independence Party. Don't claim for elections to support the Council's bill that a new constitution becomes a law, but after election, it says that the constitution can be cut apart and the waiteed. President. I feel a little like a broken record because I've been giving this speech and someone else the same. During the last series of discussions with the prime minister, I faced optimism and wanted to motivate the government with courage and courage to guide. I said that it would certainly take courage to limit one's own authority. It takes courage to stand by the people's will, even though they may be at odds with their own interests. It takes optimism to cope with the changes in a new constitution, optimism, and firm belief that the nation knows best how to govern the land, and how to deal with a new era in an uncertain world. My attitude has not changed, Mr. President. And now there's a song for why. Senators of the greater part and the highest. A government to respond to my encouragement. True, it is disappointing that no one is sleeping. A member of other classes, and then no one is sick. A member of the majority of them uses an opportunity to give a talk, at least not to such a point. Surely, it would be contrary to those moving to us but choosing not to share a vision with the people, now that we reexamine the Constitution, we ask ourselves technical matters instead of sharing a vision in our own speech. President. The opportunity is still there. The Piratar and I and the Conspiracy suggest that the Allied Congress respect the nation's will and guide the new constitution into law. Piratars turned the bill forward to the last assembly in what they left it when it was inserted into a drawer in 2013. The party has now taken over the baton and is moving the case at this assembly. With contributions from the bill, we'd like to give all the members of the Congress here the opportunity to bring the democratic will of the nation, the chairman of the Constitution, into law. I want to encourage the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, to deviate from cutting down the nation's will and negotiate with the Independence Party. I would like to encourage her to assist us and to keep a promise that she has made and to respect the will of the chairman of Iceland and pay the street of this bill through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u89	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir described herself as a broken album when discussing these matters. I can agree with it, so I turn it on myself too because, of course, sometimes I experience myself like a broken record in this relationship. In this discussion, she made it clear that members of the Parliament other than the sponsors of the bill made their decision. I'll see what I can do about it. However, no one should be surprised who has participated in discussions about these matters in recent years that I and my team have declared us ready to make final changes, declared us ready to take a chapter, and some aspects of the current constitution to be revised. Several factors have been mentioned in this regard, but some have been found to be part of it. This is the section of the president, where many individuals have shared that it would be reasonable to bring the terms of the laws in harmony with reality, not necessarily to make great material changes, but to bring the words of the laws in harmony with reality. Similarly, we have agreed to participate in a work that has aimed at putting certain new words into the constitution. I personally had a share in the work between 2013 and 20121, where there were particularly three new sources of resources, environment and nature protection, and national legal requirements. During that time, the work took on those new arrangements. I agree that there may be grounds for such changes. But it is quite clear on my part and on my behalf that we do not feel the need for the extensive changes made by the Council of Government and therefore by this bill. That attitude has been very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u90	A respectable president. I may be just trying to figure out what kind of an answer that was, except why. A senator here declares that he, like me, feels like a broken record in the discussions on this subject. How fine it is that we agree on something when it comes to the Constitution and discuss it! But what I was trying to criticize, a respectable president, with my comments in my speech, was that here we are discussing the new constitution as a class. The senator has stood up, and he does not use the opportunity to use a talk and explain why he resists the decision of the 2012 National Court, how he properly does not respect the people's will in this matter, but then he talks about other national pay, as if it were to be of any importance to them in the following ways. Hv. A senator noted earlier that he was open to review certain chapters and regulations in the constitution and reviews them, likely after his party and what was pleasing to him. But that's not part of the discussion here. What is considered is the bill of the Board of Directors, which was proposed as a basic work to address the Constitution's overall review. It is his party that has merely opposed the possibility of it. So I'd like to take a chance. A senator came here and explained why they did not respect the people's will and why the nation should ever be involved in a national law once again if that is the attitude they would follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u91	V.E.G. President. Of course, I have agreed that I, along with my party, opposed the idea that the proposals of governance were proposed to lay the basis for a change in the constitution. However, as I came to an earlier answer, we have felt that it would be reasonable to consider a particular point of revision and to add a newcomer, including on binding national guidelines in certain cases. It is known that when the Constitution dictates that national pay, based on specific requirements, is binding on such a conclusion. The 2012 National Convention was very flawed in my opinion, and I can only refer to a debate that took place at the World Council in the leading part of the legislation that made my position very clear, that I thought it would be very strange to bring up a national agreement with a case that was in the middle of the process, not to the end, not to questions that would be vague and unremarkable, and more so. There was, therefore, a direct opposition to this national payment. Then we can assume that the national ultimatum was no longer more smoldering in society at its time than it was that half of the voters were not reached at the voter location to vote. It was the enormous demand for the nation to manifest itself in the same way as when it was elected to a administrative election, which was later decreed inequities due to failure, a just over one-third of the voters that would come to vote for that vote. [[Up front.]] There were almost more candidates than there were to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u92	A respectable president. Here, perhaps, the reason for my criticism might come to an end. A senator would not just come up here and talk because I would like to ask him a lot of questions at a convention. What kind of standards do we have? A senator for a national bill to be listened to by the National Assembly of Iceland? Some are better than others? At what? A senator sees a favorite national law that was carried out by the standards he wished for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u93	Some are binding, others are not e.g.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u94	Hv. A senator here refers from the hall to binding and not binding national fees. But I ask why. Because of the nature of the question, a senator - and he may not get an answer. A senator responds to me, but he has no control over this matter: Why should the nation think that it will be taken back? Why should we at one time get away with 50% in one national law after this, when the only thing that the Allied Council of Iceland makes is to give the nation's opinion loudly? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u95	Mr. President. It is not that interest in making a full reexamination of the Constitution arose after a collapse. Rather, it was tried to travel many times and with a variety of variations. That others were born, I believe that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir as a senator was busy trying to make such changes. Mr. President. We've been through this story and our work on the details we're discussing. I'm also going to do it because it's remarkable, this story, and I think it's very important that we keep it on rhythms and let's be clear how the paper we're discussing was built and why it's important to finish the job. When Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who was then president of the United States and Prime Minister, recommended a bill for a administrative hearing in 2010. This, with President's permission: I hereby recommend a bill to legalize a administrative body which is proposed in accordance with the Commission Declaration of the Union and the Left Motion of the Green Mission. The bill was submitted to a 137 legislation council without a recommendation and is now submitted without change. The bill also includes the upcoming of a national constitution to revise the republic's constitution. The bill was cooperated with a representative of all members of the council. The background of this bill is that during the last legislation of the United States Congress, the left movement, the development of a green party, the forwarding party, and the liberal party presented a bill for a change in the constitution, following a draft of regulations about a government body. The bill for administration was not eliminated. In the absence of the Constitutional changes that were proposed for the establishment of a administrative body and that its bill would be submitted to a national law-enforcement law, it is proposed in the bill that the Council of Justice will be counselled, leaving no authority in the constitution to hide a administrative body of binding decision. I think it's important to be present during the discussion. Why were proposals, not binding, of a adviser? It was simply for technical reasons, as Jóhanna described so perfectly when she recommended a bill to legalize a government council. On the basis of the Treaty Act, November 2010 provided a national meeting of fewer than 1,000 representatives of the country with everything randomized from a national file. It gave the public key reasons and emphasis on the government of the country and the change in constitution. A board of directors chosen by the General worked out the information presented there and gave a report on the results of the National Conference and the ideas of the changes to the constitution. Later in the same month, it was elected to the Council of Government, which was to be presented to the General Parliament for a administrative hearing. However, it did not come about by the hearing that the election was being carried out. The Supreme Court declared them invalid in January 2011. Instead, on March 24, 2011, the General ordered 25 people to make proposals for a change in the constitution. In July 2011, a government council approved a single bill for a administrative law due to the President of the Generals. The bill supported, including to the conclusions of this meeting and the suggestions of a board of administration and the general public. There were various legal improvements, such as nature protection and national possession of natural resources, in terms of elections to the General and the public's right to require laws agreed by the General Assembly. The Presidency Committee presented proposals for the Council of Government at the General Assembly in the form of a report in October 2011. The case went to the board of administration and monitoring committees that discussed the matter in the next month with the access of various experts. In line with the interpretation of February 22, 2012, a board of directors met again in March 2012 to discuss the questions and suggestions of the Commission and the review committee on possible changes to the bill covering including the Directives on the environment and resources, the office of the President of Iceland and national law. The council, in turn, handed their answers to the committee by means of adjustments. By resolution of May 24, 2012, the General agreed that the proposals of a government body should be offered in a advisable national fee. In addition, it should be asked whether a new constitution should describe natural resources, which were not owned by private national property, whether or not there should be a requirement for a national church in Iceland, whether a personal election to the Council should be elected to a greater extent than it has been, whether or not there should be a requirement to vote for voters all over the country, as well as whether there should be a requirement for a specific rate of voters, could require a matter be taken on national terms. The national campaign was held in October 2012. 116,069 people voted, or 49% of the people had a vote. A greater proportion of those who took sides in this issue, or 66.9%, were in favor of offering proposals of a administrative body to lay the foundation of a new constitution. Much also answered yes to the other questions. It has been said that 49% of campaign parties, that more than 116,000 people had participated in the election, were not sufficient. However, those who wanted the resources to be declared as national property in a constitution, the ones who said yes to it, were enough. If everyone at home had said no, the law would still have been accepted. I'm not gonna talk about if we were to attend a campaign program that's usually in the General election, it's obvious that there was more to this law to go into a constitution. Generalis's office consulted with the request of the Commission and monitoring committee several legal experts to review and legalize the proposals of a new constitution. In November 2012, the Special Forces Department proposed a change in the bill of the Government Council. These included some of them. the status of the National Church was laid down in line with the decision of the National Remuneration. In November 2012, a majority of the management and monitoring committee submitted a bill for a constitution based on a bill to a management body with a change according to the expert team's proposal. The case went to the administration and monitoring committee and gave more of it a few changes to the bill. The head of the Committee also requested the European Commission's opinion of democracy by law, the Venetian Committee, on the bill. In February 2013, the Venetian Commission came to a conclusion that the efforts of the Icelanders to improve Iceland's regime were welcomed and made comments on the individual regulations of the bill. Despite much effort on the case within and outside the council, it failed to be completed before the 2013 Parliament and ill health, the work was not continued from where it disappeared during the later election period or for the subsequent visit. There's a betrayal of the nation, Mr. President. I find it important and in accordance with democratic viewpoints to respect the conclusion of the 2012 National Code by continuing to change the constitution on the basis of a board of administration. It is reasonable to continue from the spring of 2013 onward and thus make use of the enormous work devoted to the revision of the Constitution. It's not enough, Mr. President, in my opinion, that the Independence Party says they don't like these changes. That's not enough. The Independence Party and what. The members of that party do not have a denial authority in this council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That's the way it is. It is my hope that this case will be adopted by the Board of Directors and Board of Overseers. She's still ill, though, since too strong forces don't want to change the constitution because it seems to me that it doesn't serve their interests. But doing so will serve the interests of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u96	President. The bill presented here by the United Nations and the Piranha can immediately continue with what Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, our beloved president, correctly explained as a democratic work to the constitution that history may report. The new constitution has been created by the nation from the beginning. The country arrived at a 2010 national meeting and proposed a change to the Constitution. The country arrived at the elected site of the same year and chose its representatives in a government council. The country then arrived in the 2012 National Bank and chose to establish a new constitution on a proposal of government. I was in the side room with a bang. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson, and we reviewed what was asked exactly in the National Court. I said: It was decided that we were going to get a new constitution based on a bill of administration. When we went over it, the day came when that's exactly what we were asking. There's nothing unclear about that. The people were asked if they wanted a new constitution based on a bill of government law. Two-thirds of the voters said yes. In democratic states, the nation is the chairman and the Icelandic nation has decided to give themselves a new constitution. Since then, the governments of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, and Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, have been unable to or wished to do the people's will. Now the ball is at the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This bill is what we in the United States and Pirates want to become a new constitution, as the national will says. We demand that voters in the 2012 National Bank be respected. We will continue to contribute to the General Assembly of the New Constitution, which contains the work done by the nation and then to the council until it was placed in a drawer of 2013. The reason is simple: The new constitution is largely responsible for the democracy. It enhances the right to participate, to influence, to oblige those in authority. And there is a need. Then it promotes the civil rights of all of us, the freedom of expression, the freedom of people to receive and share information, the right to access the Internet, the right to get information from the government, the freedom of the media, the freedom of science. The bill we're discussing here put Piratar and the Conspiracy at the last council and now submit it again. It will be submitted when a new government succeeds at the end of the election that will likely occur in a year and a half, in the spring of 2021. Then this bill is ready and can be submitted by day one. The removal will continue. The new constitution is ready for a government ready to take it out of the drawer, accept it to the General, and send it to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u97	A respectable president. The discussion has referred to a transnational reconciliation. I find that an interesting subject because cross - political reconciliation is not about everyone having to agree on matters or even on methodology. It is a question of whether or not a change is needed. In view of the messages we have received in a national law, it is a reason to change. Some people want to change one at a time. Some just want to change if the nation calls out with a lot of noise or more. Some, however, are royalists, who want to maintain their rank and authority accordingly. Because what can be called the least - intentioned members of the constitution that we received from the monarchy other than royal ones? We have an interesting problem. After all this process, accusations are made that the smaller part is beating on the greater part. In the system of government we live in, it is a total surreal accusation because we are very used because it is the most important part that is beating on the smaller parts, and all that the lesser part can do is try to wave flags and come up here in the General Meeting to hold back the abuse of power in the end. We find that the matter is held out with logic that does not go to the slightest eye when together with technical defects in voting for a administrative body and a product of the Council of Governments and then the decision of a national law. After the collapse, we are dealing with a measure of mistrust in politics. It is, therefore, understandable that the council decided to place the bill in the hands of others. It's just so understandable, and it's also understandable that the public did not trust the council to complete this assignment. I understand that very well. So it is, I think, clearly that the council should remember to have in this process because it is the very nation, the constitution manager, who is trying to control the abuse of power we have experienced in recent decades. A number of recent examples can easily be given: National Court is one, putting a report under a chair is another, etc. We still live with these problems, many of which are in the new constitution. It has been said of experts and convictions, that the others and these experts are not listened to but also to others. That was also done in the energy package case. Special attention was given to certain experts, not to the others. It's just the way our conviction works. We look at all roads, roads, and values, and when two experts disagree, which should I heed? I have to use my own convictions. If I have a problem with that, I'll probably go to other parties to borrow your judgment. This bill is referred to as a broad change. On the other hand, I maintain that this is a lie. That is a lie, for 80% of the current constitution is found in a new bill. This is not so much a change as it is. The main changes are the additions. There are, not extensive changes in the bill, but extensive improvements. It is not unnatural, but it has developed very much in recent decades, and we have gone to over 100 years here. A world problem has added to the Constitutional rights and various articles in a constitution that is finally being recorded in the bill for a administrative law. We're finally updating, we're jumping from Windows 95 to Linux. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] All right; from Macka 2 to Macka 10 or something like that. We're letting go of a huge number of steps in operating systems update because we've been ignoring it for so long to update it. I can understand that it is very uncomfortable for the classical rulers of Icelandic society who have been controlling the system for decades and who have designed it according to their thinking, of course, they feel uncomfortable with the fact that certain weaknesses and failings are in it. They find it particularly uncomfortable if something is converted into their royal constitution, which strengthens their power so immensely, as it is so easy to interpret it back and forth what can be done according to the current constitution. We've seen it when the law has been denied. We've seen it when they've refused to breach a council. It is only a practical explanation for every time that is an example for the future, but that decision has even resisted the scholar's interpretation. But there is no one who can say anything about that interpretation. That is why changes must be made and only grudging in the articles that are often spoken of as being obvious in nature and being able to offer enormous power. I made a comparison between the Constitution and the Constitution bill in 2016. I'm only working on making a comparison between the constitution and this bill. It has been found that there is a very small difference, yet about 80% of the current constitution in the bill. But the articles that fall out, which are no longer there, if these changes are made, are articles that the President of the Generals directs them, if there is a greater difference between them--no, I'm sorry, I'm on the wrong list, no, I'm on the right list -- keep the Allied one document that has a signature for an oath and the National Archives store the rest. You know, there are some of these things that you ask, when you look at them better, what are they for? There is another substitute, e.g. much more modern. The republic's president has residence in or around Reykjavík. What does it need in the constitution? There were some regulations here, I didn't quite get this together before I went up. There's a seminar working in one seminar, okay? There are a lot of things we have in our community today. And yes, one step at a time can be taken. But we haven't been able to take these steps for decades. In that situation, we watch the constitution as it now looks, and it really isn't understandable. She may be understandable to some scholars, but then the president comes and decides something else. It's not a government system we have or can accept, not at all. There are all sections of the constitution that need updates. It's not a big change, it's a simple update. In recent years and decades, what needs to be done is adding to all the rights that have entered the world's ruling system. That's where the main improvement is, not the change. Adding new rights is not a change in constitution, not at all. That's an update on rights. We are left in the rights of other nations, so the evidence I have heard about those who say that we must do little at one time because widespread changes cause chaos, confusion, or confounding, simply do not arise if you consider the contents of the Constitution and the bill that lies before the council. They don't go up, and I'd love to get more than the independents to answer because there are more groups in the government, and there are other members at Congress also to talk about the Constitution of Iceland that has not been upgraded to any real unless only in the need to add the section of human rights late and late. We're a long way behind. I call for the participation of all classes in this discussion to explain in a clear and detailed way to the people of the country why we should be so behind in legal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u98	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna come in on all the factors as reason. A senator mentioned in his talk. No doubt there will be an opportunity to introduce them later. However, there is one point that I pause at which I feel that there is reason to respond. A senator and a member of the Governing Body's proposals contribute to the extent of the change. It is true that in some ways 80% of the current constitution may be reflected in legal requirements, but all is the premise that in many cases the wording is being changed, sometimes considerably. While the same subject is being considered, adjustments in wording and presentation are being made on its own, the more recent adjustments may be made, as noted in the opinion of a great number of those on this subject, when it was discussed at the council of 2012 ◯2013. This may result in interference of the example, failure of routine practice, double-checking of the previous examples of the interpretation of the chosen values, etc. so that by following the procedure made by the Government Council to express and modify a sentence, even if it was dealing with the same subject, it can cause what I have heard scholars call meaning, i.e. Although this may not have been necessarily planned, the meaning may change and the effect of the rules may be altered by the stirring of words and thus disrupting examples. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt interest in this indication is that this is a very important point. It's just fine, that's how we work. When we act in harmony with the law, we are expected to change our example as well. There is nothing unnatural about that process. What I find to be the key here, and there's a particular change in the Council of Control in particular, it's trying to put the constitution into human languages. I strongly support the Constitution that it is not legal. It is a problem of the law to interpret it into legal matters and their examples. I respect that problem, but I don't think it's so serious that it has to be kept out of the public record after all. That is very normal when there is a change in a subject in the present state of doubt and for certain interpretations in the legal sense that we want to eliminate it, to make it understandable in human language. Then, if it changes legal interpretation, it is not the human language's problem, the constitution as such. There is a greater problem, however, in that there are many aspects of the constitution that doubt that this is not an example. They have not been set up as examples, and when examples are taken, such as those cited. To prevent the legal word from being legal, the president has done much of what changes are all about. A senator used this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u100	Mr. President. The word I used is not a legal concept but rather philosophical. There is a meaning, i.e. that by means of the change, it is happening to the meaning of terms, words, and decisions that may have been given in the long run some meaning, meaning. That's kind of what I'm trying to say in this discussion. Getting the Constitution into human affairs is a matter of great concern, and it is possible for humans to wonder whether the proposals of a government Council are in greater human language than any other law we are working on. It follows that when it comes to terms of terms that are inherently legal, political, or something that matters to be used properly. It also counts in a constitution, which, of course, has a role as fundamental law, as the basis of another law, at least The meaning must be fairly clear. What I think is important to draw out, and it was precisely pointed to in the trial in 20123/42013, is that it might and would have really not been evaluated in any way as to the secondary effects of the changes being proposed, in effect, in order to make changes to specific requirements without any rational assessment of the impact of the changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u101	A respectable president. Yes, meaning. Interpretation between languages, I believe that we are on the one side of a human language that develops, changes in time and on the other hand, the legal issues. I understand this very well, because in computer science from where I come from, we have things like fastings and we want things very fast over time as such. But we have the problem of developing human affairs, and we need to update our translations regularly. The law must and must deal with that problem too, for we are likely to be able to communicate with the inaccurate human language after all. Not all of us lawyers, not all of us can be lawyers, not everyone wants to be lawyers, and it would definitely be boring if everyone were lawyers. We are struggling to convey our will in an inaccurate language. We try to be as accurate as we can, but it is difficult in particular, when the language changes, so I simply disagree greatly because it causes some meaning, for all are, in all equal terms, the changes in word are being made in explanation. The criticism that I have read about this marking, etc. had no one, at least not many relevant examples of exactly what could result in meaning. In that sense, there is a strawer in the discussion rather than an upbuilding discussion or criticism of the administrative bill and its present bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u102	A respectable president. I'm going to make an honest attempt to irritate everyone, including the sponsors of the bill, because while I'm certainly a very devoted sponsor of this bill, I feel that it's time for me to look over the past, and therefore wonder what works and what doesn't work and what doesn't work and to draw a little lesson from the way this argument, if reasoning should be called, has been practiced since the work began which led to the debates we speak here today. First, I'd like to point out a few points, e.g. that the Constitution is often referred to as a matter of reconciliation. I completely agree that as much as possible, there should be a valid constitution at any time. The point is, if you look at the 2012 polls or national law, it's clear that there's much more peace with the bill we're discussing here than with the current constitution. So I can agree, but it's not cool with the current constitution, and normally not, as is her story that has probably been traced here a hundred times, if not more often. To me, it was interesting to hear in particular a respectable president, who is also disturbed. 5th a.m. Smoke. So, Brunsur Níelsson's son, here, talks about how he was willing to change the constitution, that there might be some changes in it. I think it's such a strange comment because it's as if it can be changed as long as it's not changed according to this bill. That's where I go into criticism, which also has something to do with the followers of this bill. Somehow on the ground - I think it happened very early on the road - this case was grouped as a group and set up to be one side of society by it and another side against it. I didn't think that was necessary. I don't think it's anyone's fault, it just happened. I'm not going to try to get into some doctrine about it, I don't think that's important. What matters to me is the subject of the bill itself. I don't approve of this bill because it crashed. I've complained that we needed a new constitution since I was a teenager, especially since I started reading it. I don't approve of the new constitution because independence was against it or because the Conspiracy and the Left Green brought it on. I'm just in favor of this record because I've read it. I've read a valid constitution, and I've learned a few things about law and how the Constitution works and how it doesn't work. I'm all for this bill because of what it says. Among the loudest followers of this bill, I personally think too much of it, and all too much powder spent on how bad the Independence Party is, much gone into the prehistory and the past that really matters, but it's been mentioned very often and extremely often. I feel like we need to talk more about it. I feel like it's missing from all sides. I totally understand why it's like this. I don't think that's a good position. When it comes to material criticism, I have noticed that there seems to be a notable lack of knowledge in the subject of the bill among those who oppose the bill than those who are in favor of it. Like others, it repeatedly says that the whole system is somehow being torn up by roots or by some fundamental change. And so it simply isn't, Mr. Honorable President. There is an admirable amount of reforms, the needs of some, and also the preferred reforms. But it is simply not true that there is an adjustment of some basic aspect of the government of the country. This bill is based on what's been going well in Iceland. It is added that, in my opinion, it would obviously make things work even more well. It's not a radical, respectable president, it's just part of our society's changing over time and to develop and thus to control. I don't think I'm a special fan of making frequent constitution changes, like most people. It is more desirable to take it for a certain reason, even or at least, when it must be obvious that the community has changed very much from the sentence of existing constitutions, and is wondering what the baselines we want to reflect in a constitution, how successful and how bad it must be, and put a new constitution in the long term with the changes that would be expected to be appropriate at that time. It's this bag, a respectable president, this bill. It was a good time for that bill to come into existence. But let it lie in between parts because, as I say, I don't support the bill on the grounds that it was done like this or queer, but because of what it says in the bill itself. If opposers have any idea of any change in word, I'll listen to them. I may not agree with them, but I will listen to them and try to convince the public and other followers of this bill that these changes in word are good if I think they're good. There is nothing wrong with that either, for so many such things have already been done. There is something else I would like to mention: These are not the Council of Control, this is a bill that is derived from that embezzlement. They were processed from their previous job, discussions that have taken place for decades, e.g. on direct democracy, resource regulations, protection of nature, environ mentment of power according to pre-specified merits. There is also a part of the work on this, a respectable president, so it can only be a long time ago that can't be replaced by an expression that has long been changed in the treatment of the case after a board of laws has turned out well. This reminds me of something else that took place before discussing laws and human languages. In general, it is spoken as if these are two completely different languages. It may be called a different dialect, but there is no such thing as resistance in the vast majority of cases, and especially in the nature of the directive itself, to have lyrics in the reasonable human language, as it is called. I understand that tax laws cannot be in man - made because people in general are not thinking and speaking in terms that are technically involved in paying taxes, but here we are talking about the whole community covenant. It is probably true that there is a reasonable human language in the written text. There's not much of a problem, a respectable president. For legal explanations of individual concepts, they can be placed in a paper. I think it may be enough to explain terms apart from the fact that most of the terms found in this bill are already in the current constitution and have a long history, both in courts and in discussions about the government structure in general through the times, e.g. That the government here is defined as a Constitutional government, not a contingency. A respectable president. Such a change in word is not some disaster. It is not as if here some tsunami of legal action and judicial action will roll over and overthrow something. It's just not like that, it's just not that radical change. The main changes are improvements, like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson crossed over. There's no disagreement about having a General. There is no disagreement about having the tributary of power. There is no disagreement that courts are a court, that the Council is the lawgiver, and that the government is being conducted. It's cool with these things, and that's how it works in this bill. The main stumbling block there is probably the one who is right in my opinion, and it's the Presidency, but it's the same as it is, and it's natural in many ways, here and elsewhere. I would also like to discuss just interesting criticism, or rather unconcerned criticism, which I have heard from others. A reporter in the papers. That is when the situation in Venezuela of all places is likened to the constitution process here. First, the process simply isn't the same, but I'm going to try to let it lie between parts. Second, the material is simply not the same. Venezuela's constitution is one of the longest and most complex constitutions in the world of about 350 of them. I can't quickly remember what the current constitution is, it's less than 100 regulations. This bill is 116 layers. The Norwegian constitution consists of 121 regulations. The German is 146, and she likes them better. The Italian is 139 and the Spanish 169. You can't take the bill of a administrative body, proselytize it as some kind of constitution change, and therefore say: Venezuela. This is a preposterous hearing, a respectable president, and it bears the mark of my opinion of a discussion on this matter, that it is all under way except in the content of the bill, where the command is taken, in a positive way, in a practical way, to answer a question about who is to be responsible in the government. As we know now, if there is one of the Ministers to go to the chairman of that class and he points out a prime minister who points to the chairman of that party or whatever that is, it is only a practicality in the discussion once if it is, once clearly. This is clear in the bill of the Council of Control and clearly in this bill. It's good and that's how it's supposed to be. It's supposed to be that clear. To be clear, there is no need for any incomprehensible so - called legal language, one that can be both. I have not yet found anything in this bill that I would find difficult to understand as a private citizen, perhaps one and one concept that I would need only a window in a report to gain a deep understanding of, but a window in a paper project is just to gain a deep understanding of it. Well, that's not the focus. I trust the judges of the country to be able to look into legal data from time to time, although I certainly have been able to comment on the experience in that subject from time to time. I wish we could discuss this with an open mind. I feel that you could listen and be more willing to listen to criticism. I think the criticism should be more material. This matter, whether we like it or not, you see that it carries very strong feelings from the collapse that included feelings, people who wanted to change everything, and people who wanted to hold on to as much because of the collapse of their community. They wanted to stay in the constitution, even though that was all. I understand, I don't share that view of the case, but I understand it, and I believe I am echoing what some opposers of this case have said, that the Constitution was more or less the only thing holding in the collapse. But again, I don't approve this bill because of the collapse. I'm not in favor because there were some bad bankers for doing this or that. I don't even approve of this bill because of the mindlessness that we have here for failure in administrative matters and irresponsibility in general in Icelandic society, but because I read the bill itself. I read a valid constitution, and it's obvious to me which is better. We all know the prehistory of how the current constitution came about, at least Her story in all the basics, it's only been discussed here today. I want to pray. Councilmen who oppose this bill to give it a chance, discuss it materially, perhaps present it in a talk, identify what material they make, and offer suggestions for improvement, even if it was just for fun, a respectable president, because I think that even the most conservative of them would be. Councilmen who want things as they are should be able to have a little bit of fun talking about it because they explain why things should be as they are. Whatever the case, it is positive that everyone is on the same page. I hate how this case is getting much attention from things other than the subject of the bill itself. I would love it if there was something I could focus on, no doubt handling it. It's okay to disagree. It's possible, it's just that way. No one has to allow it. It's just that way here and now, elsewhere and in other times. Then, too, we should find a common guide on how to do so. For one thing as a dog. 8th yrs Smoke. n., Birgir Ármannsson, mentioned earlier, in the process of the Constitution changes, is one way only today to change the constitution, and it is that the council accepts changes and after the new General elections agree to a new council, the General Assembly, the same change. One thing that could be done, and I think it should be a solid agreement, is enforcing a law that must also be carried out by binding national law. Thus, the democratic agency is introduced, which would then be clear, and after that groups would be political bound, I would say, to the work knowing that the public had accepted a new constitution. You can do things like that, there's no reason not to do this. The motive is excellent. It's a good bill. I wish that we could reason a little more on what matters with the constitution, its contents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. Maybe I wanted to mention two things. I liked him, and I can totally agree that the proposals of a administrative body will not be knocked off the board with a reference to Venezuela or the Constitution there. Of course, it is not that way, just as a person can come here and say that the current constitution is impossible because it is rooted in dance. There is no material reason on either side, so it is said and good to look at it. Even if the counsel and the treatments and the other factors may have mattered about how we approach the subject, I think we must always take the lead in material changes. I believe that the work that is now taking place on the top of the roads. Just as prime minister, and presidents of all political groups have participated, it is in a material discussion of the different chapters and regulations of the Constitution to reach a more reasonable conclusion on the present and modern - day issues. I have personally shared in a job that has aimed at setting specific requirements and trying to reason on these matters. In some respects it has been proposed to a governmental body, as well as to other suggestions that have been presented in similar material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u104	A respectable president. I agree that this is not an automatic review of the constitution simply because it has royal roots. But I feel that it shows that it is nowhere near being a radical idea to revise it from the fact that we have decided to be a republic. We are, however, republics that are rooted deeply in royal tradition. The tradition is still in the current constitution, not as strong as it was, but not in Denmark, either. It is unmistakably that in 1944 the Republicship was thought to put on a new constitution, the expected foundation of the Republic's view. An open constitution has made some good changes, e.g. The 1991 human rights cap, cool. But it is still on this old foundation, and it is reflected in the material itself, which is the problem I want to solve. President. You don't have to tear everything apart and throw everything out the window for it. It is enough to make some organized and clear adjustments. I'll give you one point, just very simple. In 1st. 92. g. The bill says: 'The Council chooses prime minister.' Is this some sort of crazy change? No. It is much more in the spirit of the republican ideal than the arrangement that we now have based on tradition, which once you have participated in a government discussion once or twice. This is my answer to the fact that the Danish roots are not necessarily the reason for reviewing the constitution. Rather, they are the material contained in the constitution. The claim is that it begins with gods, literally, goes to the king, goes down to the council, and goes to a nation. The democracy is the opposite, causing the public to start. It should be reflected in the mind behind the constitution. It doesn't have to, I repeat, a respectable president, to make some crazy changes to do that, but it has to be discussed. I'd love to take something like that. discussion of this 1 mg. 92. g. The bill. But that discussion does not take place because people seem to be trapped in some hole because of the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u105	V.E.G. President. Today, there may not be a chance to have much, deep discussion about it. Yet, there is a change. A senator mentions the issue of Article 92. If we watch political changes or changes in power or influence in the community that leads to legal proposals, I think that a major change would not protect a president, a government, a council, or such. The big change is that a great many ways are expected to produce national pay. I think that may be what we can call the most radical in that matter. I know why. A senator is very interested in that area, but I wondered whether the proposals of a government council, and I've previously given them views in light, are radical, to assume as many ways to produce a national law order as they can expect. This lack of clear thresholds to ensure that there is no room for national payment unless certain ones of the voters make them a requirement and that the effects will be binding only if certain aspects of the voters agree either to the proposed agreement, to refuse it, or to go to the straight thresholds of participation, so that the results of national agreements are guaranteed, and these issues are strongly opposed by the rich in society rather than by what to say, will want a certain smaller section that may be involved in the shelter of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u106	A respectable president. The first thing I don't agree with. A senator is about whether there is now a chance for a deep discussion. You see, it's possible now, and I'm telling you. A senator to put himself on the rosary and to take this deep discussion now. I'm real, and I know there are other senators, even though it's just the so-called 1st. It's a big deal, and it's worth discussing it properly with 1st. I got it. I got it. A senator to give much thought to this matter. In regard to these many ways, allegedly, on the bill to produce a national bill, I don't know that there are many of them. There's one who's been talking a little bit, which is the President's lawsuit. What's it for if a voter's right is there anyway? There's talk that can be taken altogether. I don't understand myself, but I don't know why the President should send something to a national bill that voters themselves can produce by signing 10% voters, unless it is a requirement made that it is likely to reduce the ability to produce a national bill or that would be unregistered. That's where I come to the last point of my life. A senator mentioned the need to qualify for participation in national pay. I see what you're doing. A senator is leaving. However, it is in my opinion a very dangerous approach to plan to set such a requirement for participation or a certain proportion or something like that because it affects the participation itself, it affects the democratic mandate itself. In other words, by shunning a national law, voters have made a decision. Basically, I think that's bad. I feel that it should be a decision to come to a vote and express one's will, that sitting at home should not be a decision, minimizing national law, complaining about how crazy these and the others are, and throwing parties at the same time. I don't think that's a good thing. But there's something I can totally picture would happen. We're supposed to want to have as much participation as possible. That means, people should just know, they're just gonna be there if they want to be listened. As far as 10% is concerned, I'm afraid I have no more time, more time, the respectable president, has shown it to be true, e.g. in the discussion of the third energy package, that 10% is not too low a reference. [[The president calls.]] It's an excellent barrier already. It's not radical. It's not complicated. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u107	Mr. President. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir says, by permission of the president: The government wants to continue the full reexamination of the Constitution in a transpirary partnership with the country's arrival and, among other things, use the methods of public society. The committee will begin work at the start of a new council, and the government will emphasize the progress of social relations in the career of the work. In the less than two years since the administration of the government, the nominees appointed to serve in the General Assembly have now met several times. Is that still working, and good and good, and doesn't change the progress of this bill. Changes Bjarna Bjarni of Benediktsson, highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of an independent party is not a part of it. In the memo he set out at a meeting of the governing committee, he courtes his class as his party brother. paritaprevir The independent Class of the Year's son Birnags, has retraced many times today, that the Independence Party strongly opposes the overall review of this temporary document that the Danish king granted us to Iceland. This bill we receive here at the council and will go into action. The Commission and the Commission work well with the Chairman's Committee. Why so? Yes, because the director of the constitution is the Icelandic nation. The nation shall vote for a constitution, but the lawgiver is the General, and it is here for us to perform the basics of the Constitution and to complete the case. It allows for the public and group members to send in their envelopes and appear before the committee. This is the Council's passage, Mr. President, and therefore I rejoice at the donation of this bill today and I wish to thank all those who have spoken. But I have to confess to both perfect carelessness and childishity because I don't have, like the dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson claimed to have done, fought for a new constitution since I started reading. I didn't know anything because we had a constitution when I started reading. Then I was just reading the books of Guðrún Helgadóttir and Enid Blyton, but I read less of the administrative or other laws in general, and I'm not sure that I knew when I started to read that there was something that was named general law. This is how we differ, the people who work at the Council, and it's good. I would like to discuss this new bill on a new constitution to review the history of the republic of Iceland. Since Sigurðardóttir Sigurdarddóttir, then Prime Minister, in 2010, members of Congress have reinvestigated the Constitution, which had been the past, the same member of Parliament, many times in the past, in the face of an obsession, and I thank her very much for their obsession. I'd like to go further back to the centuries that still exist in Iceland today, the constitution that we Americans have been taught that Kristján IX.. has handed us, which is a statue of the delivery directly in front of the Board of Directors. But there was no Kristján IX.. who handed us the paper, because he has had a similar interest in these affairs of the Icelanders, including the Constitution, and the Independence Party on the Constitution today. That's Kristján IX.. visited Iceland in 1874. However, the Constitution arrived in Iceland in 1904 and was sent back outside 1928. So the statue in front of the Board of Directors is considered to be a fabrication of history, Mr. President, and I'm sorry. There is also a bit of history in the discussion of the new constitution and going a long way, or perhaps not a history log, but a more historical error or an attempt to dissociate. There has been a lot of talk about the overthrow of the current constitution, which is largely rapid. Councilmen of Independence Party and of those who will discuss such matters in a public discussion. During the course of the Constitution, between 1874 and 1912, 36 cases were submitted during the council for a change in the constitution. Four times, changes were achieved, including when the Republic of Iceland was founded. A Senate Committee was to develop proposals for change in the constitution, but it was clearly stated that it was forbidden to make some other changes at the time than those directly leading to the breakup of the relationship with Denmark and the Republic. The need for the solidarity of the changes in 1944 was that they included only a more targeted factor in the administration directive, but in the opinion that the committee continued to prepare other changes in the administrative structure. The decrees for the king and the regulations for the president were issued. Most of the role played by the president was very similar to that of the king before. Otherwise, the Constitution remained unchanged, but further changes were planned. A committee of 12 was appointed to advise the older committee, and two years later, a committee was still named because the first committee had been blown out of flames. Over the years, repeated attempts on the order of the committee were made to revise a constitution with no success. Have I made fun of it here that Sigurður Líndal was probably in every board of directors since 1874, since he was probably the most prominent and the first appointed member of the constitution. Some changes have been made during all this time, mainly in terms of the council itself, when members of the council have been moved to change their ballot and branch mobilization. It is, in effect, something in the house. It's a worklike bitch. At that time, they felt that they had the right to change this community covenant for the Icelanders because they had to decide who owned the desk in the Senate. Then the Constitution could be changed. But when it comes to the possession of Icelanders, or human rights, or democracy, or otherwise, no, the matter is too controversial, in nonsense. In response to the 50th anniversary of the Republic, there was a approved change in the human rights section. This seems to have been in harmony with the Independence Party, which did not overdo the change in the human rights section, with its change in our role in the European Convention of Human Rights. A little goes before the terms of reconciliation today and, according to the circumstances, The members of the Independence Party require reconciliation. Therefore, we are still living with the national community covenant, which is temporary and in many respects out - of - date. The overall review of the Constitution to be carried out after Iceland became the republic was finally launched by order of a administrative body, 25 individuals from different sources. This was adopted at the General Assembly in 2010 by a government council law, and then there was a Chesin administrative committee assigned to prepare a national meeting and vote for a administrative body. I've been through all that process well today, so I'm not going to get tired. Councilmen reiterate and reiterate what has been discussed since 2010. It's been carefully ripped, including of what? Transporter of this bill, Logi Einarsson, chairman of the United States, who in turn receives the baton of the former United States president, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. Together, with the strength of other senators, we will keep the work to the finish with a review of the provisional plan still remains to be completed. The new constitution was written, written, processed, and adjusted, and chosen for a national vote but the national will was still disregarded by an independent party, and it seems to me to other governments that somehow have been absent in the discussion today. The nation's will is ignored because of what it is. The members of the Independence Party, as well as possibly other board of directors, do not consider it the time to make a full review. There's just a majority of the public disagreements, and we had a disagreement last year when a poll was conducted. That is exactly what the majority of the people said that this work was to be completed. So where's the disagreement? Is that once again the Independence Party versed the nation? That's where there seems to be a disagreement. I've got to feel bad. paritaprevir The yearling Birgir of a Ármannsson, who stands here for the government today and is that others were raised by the most powerful watchman of the old provisional Constitution, I believe that he will eventually become involved in his struggle for longevity and the continuation of the temporary life of the nation, since I believe the Icelandic people deserve to have their own community covenant now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u108	V.E.G. President. I thought there were some things in the historical review of why. Vala Helga Helgadóttir was interesting and would have wanted her to review some of the changes that have been made in the 1944 Constitution. It minimized these changes, but the Constitution has been changed seven times from a republic. I can't remember if it's 46 or 48 of the current provisions that have been changed since that time. Of course, that may be the view that it is too small, but that is quite significant. It also means that all talk about total reexamination has a different flow today than 1944. A general review can be conducted in a variety of ways. It can be performed in this way, e.g. as the highest. The prime minister has suggested that each chapter and individual provision of the Constitution be passed, discussed, evaluated, and suggested that adjustments be made. It is also possible to give in advance that things must be done as much as possible and thus approach to the administration board. When referring to the inconsistency of the Independence Party that opposed all changes, I have to remind you that the independence party's attitude in these matters has been quite clear since the season 2009 to 22013. Since then, air has been used for the election in the country. In the campaign, aloft has come up with groups that have waved so much that they put their primary emphasis on putting in the motion of a board of governance. It is not as if voters have not had an opportunity during this seven - year period to influence the sequence of events in these topics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. Birgir The year man's Ármannsson is very grateful for her counter-sponsored response. I am prepared to demonstrate and review everything that has happened during the period since we got the constitution to today. this brief period of time tells you how many times the experiment has been made, etc. In ten minutes, however, it is quite difficult to go deep into any of the suggestions I mentioned earlier, which have been put together to change the constitution, have been suggested. That's impossible in ten minutes. However, I'm willing to take it together, and I'm sure that the Generals' field of information is also ready to take up this information because of the work ahead of us. Board of Directors and Control Committee. For word's sake. But in 1944, I have to ask myself, " Why is this so different? ' A senator claims so. I allow me to doubt that he really knows and has it right, because in spite of the problem. A senator has been at a council longer than most and is older than many, but I allow myself to doubt that he was at a council in 1944, so he can tell us what kind of abnormalities were in the discussion of the overall review of the Constitution at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u110	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. Senator, it's only about time for me to review what we discussed here in 1944. I must say, however, that I think, without saying too much, that when people talked about the general repercussion of the 1944 Constitution, they had very different ideas about what they meant at a council. I think it was also reflected in the work that took place right after the Republic's Institute and into the 1950's. Many spoke of administrative changes, some of them about big changes, others about small ones, and as often as possible, individual categories and individual individuals have a very different view of how they value such things. I'm fine with that. That's as far as we can go. Hv. A senator mentioned the changes that have occurred in the Constitution of the Republic Times, and I believe that this exists on the Web site of the General Assembly in a summary of the Constitution. It may not be quite accessible for the public to get into it, but with a slight look at the II Parliamentary website, it can be accessed to very large material on the Constitution and including this, and I think that men see as if I tried to come to my previous answer, that, despite what has been said, there have been significant changes in the Constitution in the republic Times for six or seven cycles. The majority of the articles currently included in the constitution have been changed. Of course, we can believe that it is too small. I can believe that, like many people in our discussion today, the unique features of the existing constitution are a reason to change them. I'm ready to accept it, but I'm not quite ready to write on it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. It is this with the understanding of people in 1944 of the word "discernment. " However, according to historians, the vote at the time was made clear that this feature should only be elected, i.e. For republicl institution, because the other device is too long. There was no greater misunderstanding or difference in understanding of this, but it was specifically stated that their overall review should not be made and therefore preliminary progress. The committee was immediately set up to review this case, this old document, and bring it to what we Icelanders like as our community contract. This has nothing to do with nationalism. I am very warm to Dana, to the Danish queen and to all her people. On the other hand, I believe the Icelandic people have the right to get their own community contract. I think it's time. A number of changes, such as the human rights article, have been made, but these are usually word changes, e.g. When the upper and lower branches of the council were changed and assembled, the Constitution had to be changed because of that. Change was needed because of elections and other circumstances that I could not cross. [[The president calls.]] These are the changes that have been made that are not in accordance with national or democratic boundaries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u112	A respectable president. I don't have anything more to put out on a talk at any point. A senator but because of the problem. A senator specifically mentioned my name. I would like to correct something that went wrong. I did not read the constitution when I started reading. I was a teenager when I read it for the first time, along with the United Nations Children's Covenant and other material that is just as annoying as the one here. I don't expect any answer from what. Senator. I just wanted it to come out, I didn't feel right because it wasn't a big charge, but I thought I should be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u113	Mr. President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I understood a speech. A senator like him was talking about that from his teenage years until he began reading, so I thought it was from the time he learned to read, not read the constitution. But again, I must acknowledge my naiveness and carelessness. I wasn't such a responsible young person. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. When I was a teenager, I wasn't reading the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u114	President. I recommend a hearing for a hearing about CBD in a public sale. In recent years much has been discussed about the use of the plant. The demand for industrial disaster has grown rapidly in the world, which is used in a number of industrial products, e.g. Insoned in cars, paper, food, and building materials, there are great opportunities to cultivate industrial disasters in this country. From the plant, the active substances THC and CBD can also be processed, but the latter have some factors. are used as supplements, food, cosmetics, and some medicines. Six. the treatment of addictive and drug abuse cannabis is expressed as drug and drug abuse under 1 mg. 2.g. The law and the law take up both plants within the tribe of cannabis and plants made of them. The primary active substances of cannabis plant are THC, as mentioned earlier, called tetrahydroponinol, a drug source, a mental stimulus, and CBD, cannacoliol, which is not a drug source. Both substances have medical use and can be used for various purposes, but due to the definition of cannabis and its derivatives as narcotics, or narcotics in the presence of artificial medicinal products, products containing the THC or CBD prescription, replicons, and Z-labelled. Such medicines will therefore only be obtained against a prescription by a qualified physician. Because CBD is not a drug addict, there are few or even no reasons to be classed as narcotics or drugs. The current legal situation of CBD is blurred, as it is not specifically set in the possession and drug laws nor in the regulations of the law. However, CBD, cannaboliol, all equally defined as one of the cannabis plant active substances, which are classified as narcotics by the above laws. Therefore, it is likely that CBD will apply the same rules as other substances derived from cannabis, i.e. to be authorised only to import the marketing authorisation of the Marketing Authorisation of the Marketing Authorisation, subject to prescription, subject to transcription of the medicinal product and Z-labelled. This must seem strange, Mr. President, for subjects with indistinguishable uses and is not addictive or drug abuse. A simple way to extract the active substance CBD from an industrial mode containing very little or no THC can be achieved. Many neighboring countries of Iceland have been able to authorize such production and goods on their products when the concentration of THC, the active substance of the cannabis plant, is less than defined limits. For example, in Britain it is permitted to win hammer fibers, oil, and other plant products provided the manufacturer has permission to do so and that certain conditions for the amount of TKC are met. In the case of cannabis products, the European Union has already separated the THC from other products to which the plant can be processed. Thus, in many European countries, growth and development of the plant is legal in the case of plants containing the THC levels below the specified limit. The rules on which products can be processed and the arrangements for their sale depend on national legislation. Many countries have already authorized products that contain CBD as either free-selling medicines or supplements or both. The demand for access to products containing CBD in this country is already considerable. It is appropriate to respond to the demand and allow such access, as there is no evidence against it. The compound does not produce any substance, it is not addictive, and its use may benefit individuals. It is therefore suggested by a synonym that a health secretary be committed to making the appropriate changes in the regulations in order to allow products containing CBD to be available in the general market. If necessary, a minister will also provide a bill for the legal adjustment of the law. I suggest this matter goes to the welfare committee, and I think it belongs there, hoping that there will be a good discussion in the welfare committee on CBD and the need to make it accessible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u115	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is a great man for his history and for bringing up this case. Now, I've heard only during the discussion, and I'm coming up here to get it right, that people are congregating this very useful pact of anti-drug delinquency, and then the third case of consumer waste at the health minister. So I want to ask you why. A senator simple questions: Does this have something to do with drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u116	President. There is a simple answer to that, and there is no, it has nothing to do with drugs. This is about making CBD, one of the active substances in the cannabis plant available. CBD is an active substance that does not cause high levels of substance. So this has nothing to do with drugs, but the possible reasons why this is being summed up in the discussion are that I have recently submitted and recommended a judicial case of substance abuse, and as a result are being asked both at the same time and then it is a natural health minister to reexamine a matter of consumption. Maybe that's why people add to it, but the thing I'm saying right now has nothing to do with drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer and asks them the same question: Can - I'm going to pray for it. A senator stopped interrupting the person I am asking at this point - the one who really would try to find in this product something that could possibly become addictive or make drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u118	President. The answer is no again. CBD is not addictive or drug abuse. Hv. A senator who disturbed me was just letting me know that I had offended myself earlier. That's fine, and I thank him for that. I told them that I had committed a council case about drug abuse, but I proposed a matter of criminal possession of drugs. It's a completely different matter, and it's better to be on the toe with the use of words in the pantret of the Alllanis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. This is Halldóra I Mogensen like to discuss. I think it's what it's all about. In his speech, a senator attributed that CBD is not a drug, so it should not be registered as such. But I'm not exactly where I was. A senator is that we should cross all the way to authorize the material in public sales. It is important that we bear in mind that today medicines containing CBD can be obtained by the same strict conditions as pharmaceutical producers and pharmaceutical institutions around the world require, against the so-called expanded prescription in Iceland, and I think it is unnecessaryly available. It would actually be a very large step enough to simply decide that the medicinal product is subject to a prescription such as many other active substances. The senator mentioned in his correct speech that the medicine has a specific pharmacodynamic effect, and I might make a comment that they are not completely unconcerned. But they are truly someone, so I think it would be wise to take a more careful approach, as I mentioned. Perhaps the most important reason is that I view it as just another drug, used to treat symptoms and all kinds of disorders. However, there are few critical studies that demonstrate the value of the medicinal product or its benefits, but they are of some value. There are no major studies that have been carried out. Although I understand the mind of the senator and of the carriers to want to make the material available, I think it is also in certain consumer protection to expect this material, such as other active substances, to be under the same conditions as other medicines we use in treating disease and therefore have to be in the most strict manufacturing process as these drugs. That would be at least A wise first step before going all the way into this subject. For a welfare committee, it may be flat to find some sort of reversal on this project that can be worked on. But I think at least... that this would be a more sensible step than going all the way to a common market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u120	President. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the tremendous burden of drug laws, understandable, and right, a senator demands many government permits and is a burden to producers, immigrants, pettys, and especially consumers. I wondered what the evidence is for identifying CBD as a drug rather than a e.g. supplements. There are literature articles that have shown that the negative effects of CBD on the body are virtually absent and the body appears to work well from CBD with few and minor side effects most of which are related to high doses. The same can be said of a lot of vitamins, but no one can think of identifying them as medicine or vitamin D. So I ask. A member of Parliament: Why, if the material is safe or almost safe, do you need to set such a burdensome requirement for it to be classed as a drug? Why can CBD not only be available if people are calling for it? There are a number of people in the community who use the material today - that is on the black market and move in - and that helps a great many.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. In some respects, it is because we want the drug laws to be burdensome, and in some respects it is natural. We want those who need to use the medicine to be protected by it, and we want them to keep their noses on the manufacture and sale of medicines. Maybe that's why I'm primarily thinking about it. The senator mentioned that although the side effects were not great, there are some, and there are also interactions that are difficult, let's say, to put a good grip on the first episode. Medicines with this active substance are already produced and ready to use. You may be able to change your local regulations by taking the step right now to allow the product. I think if people called for the drug, it would answer to that demand anyway. There's another thing in this that I'm afraid of because I've been working with clients throughout the years when they've been taking free-selling drugs, and that's the general rule that there are not very strict manufacturing rules about them. It is very often so that their composition and content are uncertain relative to e.g. medicines that go through stricter processing procedures and station management procedures. I believe that until we have more information on CBD for medical purposes, we should be careful and take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u122	President. We're gonna go for a second. Since a senator sits on a welfare committee together, I expect to continue this discussion, which is just very good, and I respect the caution of people wanting to start with new things. I look forward to getting the reviews and experts to the Committee to expand this conversation and to help us learn more about CBD, upcoming as medicine or supplements. I'd like to ask you what. That's not true. That's not what a senator is. This case also involves the legal development of industrial disasters in Iceland, where the cannabis plant is now under the laws of addictive and drug abuse. I wonder what. A senator would agree with me on the importance of this or on whether he feels the need to take CBD out of its parenthesis so that it does not fall under addiction or drugs law. In this way, the European Union's legislation and regulations on industrial mode would be taken from the grey area and made clear that industrial modes are permitted which would then have a small, defined amount of TKC. This would make it possible for us to grow and manufacture products from the source in Iceland which is a very environmental way of going, e.g. to create a textil or a concrete or paper or whatever it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen for the questions. I'm aware of the speculations as easily as possible. A senator mentioned whether it would usually be legal to cultivate industrial modes in Iceland, and in the strictest sense, law study is probably not. At any rate, it can produce a double, let's say if it's legal. But I agree with the senator that the active ingredient CBD should be exposed to parentheses. I agree with the senator because it would provide a street to form a registry of medicinal products that contain this material and that would be a list of medicinal products that contain this material according to the rules of drug production already valid. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asked about drugs and not drugs earlier, which is a much larger discussion and can be taken across a wide range of areas of it. Taking medicines such aslints - and seeing that I'm telling medicines such as liters - in some cases it may be appropriate to take medication, i.e. It is almost taken due to a medical condition such as Vitamin D deficiency affecting a number of more conditions. So the lines in between are not exactly like some line. I hope this case gets a good coverage on the Committee, and it's gonna be exciting to see if it's gonna get some kind of landing in it, but I can't cut myself off at the bill today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u124	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, about a number of local agents, on deck. 66. The first transporter, Jón Gunnarsson, is away, so I was called in by the senior class, one of the partners of the case, but besides the two of us, we're a delivery team. Councilmen of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Njáll Friðbertsson, Vilmur Árnason, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Bergþór Ólason. As the report shows, the bill of this material has been presented twice before, at 148, and 149th legislature, but not successful. Civil society is the government, thereby becoming part of the European Commission's manual, according to Article 2. The constitution. Therefore, they are part of the administrative system and are to follow general regulations regarding government activity and administrative procedures. According to 1st mg. 78th par. The Constitution shall govern its own affairs according to law. This expression, that they control their own affairs, refers to the self - control of rural society. That includes self - control. that citizens of rural society have a democratic right to vote for the government of the local community. The call is for a number of district leaders in 1st. 1 1. Substitute government law. Thus, an extenuating law affects the number of local representatives. It is important to protect the voluntary rights of the rural community and to ensure that the democratic thinking behind the country's regime and the rules of elections for the government, that local officials represent the local community, actively reflects the will of the population. Ideographical base 1. 78th par. The Constitution is to ensure the right of local citizens to control certain matters without interference from the State. Therefore, the carriers believe this bill to be correct in saying that rural communities themselves can control a number of local nobles. The following should be kept in mind, as indicated in comments at 2 mgr. 1 1. in the paper of the bill, which became the current administrative law, by permission of the President: However, it is also important to remember that the governance that the bill assumes that the value of rural activities is not expected to be very large government, based on the fact that the government itself makes all major decisions on the management and administration of the Community and is responsible. If this bill becomes legalized by the law, local governments will be made up of a number of local nobles in their approvals within the bounds that the officers will never be fewer than five and no more than seven, with less than 2,000 of the population of rural society. The proposed changes to 2 mg. 1 1. The law implies that if the bill of law becomes the law, society will never be obliged to increase the number of local representatives, although the population changes. Then there is the law of law, as it was 2.mg. 78th par. The constitution. In terms of the ability of rural society to take care of it, the key to using it is the ability of rural society to act on their own, i.e. on your own initiative, such as. To determine the number of nobles in the county government. It may be that the financial impact of this bill, the success it will achieve, on a wealth of money, is nothing. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to what? Environment and Transport Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u125	President. Here's an old acquaintance, and I'm not necessarily going to say "good news" because I haven't had a very good experience in this matter for the time it's come in here. [[The point is, it's a good acquaintance.]] I'm always as surprised that this case will come out here, but never as it is now. When it has been suggested at other times that the system as it is today is not something that the government was cooking up or drawing some numbers out of the hat, it is a product of extensive work done with the rural communities where the result became the one we live in today. It was no less for an idea made by local communities themselves that a table was set for the population simply to determine how many representatives were in rural management so that they would not have to scratch and manage it on a regular basis, but it would be pretty much like clockwork, if the population was to lose a certain amount of government representatives. I couldn't get out of it. Then they moved, but then there was a man of authority other than whiskers. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, whatever analysis work is responsible for the bill that would be better than the cooperation done with the rural communities of its time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u126	Mr. President. Just so that it's perfectly clear, the bill being presented here will not interfere with any of its own decision-making rights. They can arrange their affairs in the way they choose. On the contrary, to make a decision on our own, rural society is increasing its freedom. The analysis work is relatively simple. At least we, who are members of the Independence Party, have been advocates of greater freedom and, if possible, cease to force certain factors. This will not force Reykjavíkurburg or any other rural community to decide to reduce their size to the country, or to the city of Reykjavík, if they choose to have the number of people they want, taking into account how the population develops in the future and increase or decrease according to events, unless less. All we're saying here is that the minimum number of rural control people should still be five. That's the only limit for transport. Other than that, we want this to be done by local governments and members of the countryside themselves. I think that it should be quite acceptable to bring power from the government or legislatures back to the province and to promise the local government in agreement with their clients, the citizens of the rural community, to make a decision on a number of rural governments, although only if there are never less than five. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u127	President. It's all right. A senator himself saw the contradiction in his case, on the one hand, in discussions about the great freedom that the movers are bringing to their rural communities, and on the other hand, the fact that this is a very clear setting, that representatives will not be fewer than five. [[...they're there.]] They're there, called "wow." Senator. It just so happens that we can change the law, and this is exactly where it's being suggested. I hope so. A senator's figured it out. This is a cut so that no matter what outfit we wear, this bill puts it on for this self - determination right to be taken by rural society. Transporters suggest that this will be done in ways other than today, so I don't give much to talk about freedom at the same time. Why not allow your communities to vote? Why not listen to the communities involved in this work? What was not the least to say was that this should not be an eternal business in the rural communities themselves or that it would depend on which categories constituted more localities. Rather, it would be a simple rule that would not have to be a lot to think about or argue for elections. Why not listen to your rural society? I'm just asking. Then comes the time, President, who surprised me most that the case was now being done at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee is working on policy development for rural society, where the rural communities themselves have declared their own will to unite, to reduce them. Is it not advisable to wait on all such suggestions until the much harmony that is likely to be ahead will be achieved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u128	Mr. President. I think now is the right time to contribute the bill. This is a good introduction to the Committee or Parliament's discussion regarding the future policy development in the affairs of rural society. The matter should be discussed at the same time, given power to the countryside, and that they have it. The main criticism I've had of the available proposal for rural policy is that people dream of forcing rural communities by law to unite. I am quite aware that a greater proportion of rural communities, larger communities, have been accompanied by a legal action to unite rural communities, that there should not be fewer than 1,000 people, etc. I'm totally against it. I want the inhabitants to take the initiative themselves and work together if they think they serve their own interests. Civil authorities must also have the authority to cooperate with their citizens, their clients, to decide whether and when to increase the number of local representatives. However, it is wise to ensure that at least that there is some set minimum number in rural governments just to make sure that there is some democratic setting to make decisions. I hope we what we're doing. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, at least We agree that we'll never let it happen that there will be only one member of the county government here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u129	Mr. President. I'm going to try to be a rider, but I think it's kind of my duty to come in for a speech chair to cross the line of 11. is the way she is today. 1 1. as it is, it is not the product of a group of consultations that worked by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as it was then. I know this because I was in that working group at the time, along with the brilliant good people, and there were people who would be considered to be members of the political parties of the United States, the left movement, a green volunteer, a forward party, and an independent party. There was a agreement on a different article, then it became a law, and if anything was, it would be more harsh than a number of local nobles. 1 1. as it is now, then, there is in fact some sort of compromise that was achieved when the case came to the council. At any rate, the article will change from that group to the end of the matter at the council and will remain as it is today. The article as it is allows enough room for rural governments to determine the number of members of the rural government that I know. What's more, I don't think it's wise to go down below the limits there are, especially when looking at the projects entrusted to the communities. They're mad, and I think it is quite unwise to expect that seven members of a large rural society, such as the rural communities in the capital area, will be able to care for and care for all their tasks. I'm afraid that if you choose this, two things would happen, on the one hand, that local government officials would actually see about all actual decision making and, on the other hand, that democracy would be much less, because it would take tens of thousands of people to form behind each elected agent, if the most basic suggestions mentioned by the bill were to be taken up. I'm paying attention to that, and I think we should give 1 1 1. and the local government laws as they are now a little bit of time to live and work with the nation before we begin to stir them more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u130	Mr. President. Because of what to say. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, wanted me to promote that when this matter went through the council in its own time, in 2011, if I recall correctly, we committed members of the Independence Party to this exact point of court treatment, so that there was no compromise of any kind with us, no matter how the proposal developed. Although we supported a variety of changes that took place in this legal process, we voted against this particular point. It was on the exact basis of what happened. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson has described, we believed that it should be a matter of community control decision whether or not we're growing. Then, of course, we had the principal concern of the city council in Reykjavík. We believed that if it was a political part of the local government, it would be acceptable to make such a decision, but it would also be the responsibility of the local government to explain why it was necessary and what the purpose it served. The matter has been raised regularly in recent years, and there is no pay on the basis of the proposal in the beginning and the disagreements that have been raised in Reykjavík on the increase in councils from 15 to 23. That change has gone through and is interesting to think about how it has proved to be. When this change was decided, it was claimed that there would be no special cost to it because the vars were so active anyway, and it would change as the number of nobles in the mayor. I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for this comment. This conclusion may not have been agreed with by independents back then, and that is just the case. But now we're in this reality, let's say. The decisions have now been made, and there are 23 representatives in the city of Reykjavík, so we take this as an example. I don't think we're supposed to be circling it. The black space referred to for the countryside is in place. The score for a company of 100,000 is 23, i.e. when our community is so crowded. This means that each representative represents a minimum of some 4,000 inhabitants. There's more than it is necessary to vote for one member of the Allied Congress of Iceland and I don't think it's very well laid down, if I'm going to say exactly the way it is, to think that to get into the country government, i.e. in a government to be in close service, needs more votes than is needed to be elected for the legislature process. I think these limits selected are acceptable and I'm less effective. A senator may, of course, have brought some additional expense to the rural population. But democracy costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u132	Mr. President. Yes, democracy costs, and those making a decision on a number of local government officials see many factors other than the cost. I only mention this point specifically because both here and elsewhere were repeatedly claimed that the growth of the city councilman in Reykjavík would not lead to further costs because it was already activated by the first defenders in a way that would make them rotten like the nobles. Of course, this would change when the increase took place, but it has not become the case. But let it go. However, we are what we are. A senator may disagree on the basics of whether the lawgiver should necessarily restrict this matter or whether it should be the decision of the county government itself, as in the case of any member of the Iceland who has 100,000 or more citizens. This is a general rule extending to any member of the country that reaches the size limits of the country, and it is simply a separate opinion that cannot be solved different from that of the general minds of the council. No other conclusion can be drawn on the issue whether a lawgiver should set such boundaries or whether it should be a matter of decision to the local government itself. I'm not going anywhere because I don't find it unusual that in the case of the city of Reykjavík, she is the one who makes the decision whether the city council will remain 23 or whether they will be reduced to 19 or 17 or 15 or whether they will be raised to 25. I don't think it's unusual that it's the mayor himself who makes such a decision and is responsible for it rather than that we're messing with it here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit, it surprised me that Reykjavík chose to be with just 23 agents. I wouldn't have thought it unnatural that they had taken a bigger step, since they were on the second level taking this step in accord with the current law. Speaking of the scope of the local community, it can be noted that despite the existence of the legal authority, there has been repeated efforts to increase the number of local religions to 15. The local authorities are there, and none of the Kragas Company's sources are available from the 11 th floors. g., all except its Seltiannes and dress, in fact, to go up to 15 agents, but none of them have chosen it. They've all chosen to be in the lower number, i.e. 11th But in the same way, it has once been adopted in the rural government south of Kópavogi to have mutual discussions with the rural communities in the south, including the United States. suggested that this group of members be named Heathermark. If it had been founded, i.e. South of Fos Sogs, its inhabitants would have been about 80,000. Then there would have been a minimum of 15 platoon officials and a peak of 23. I have to say, as it is, I would have, though it was perfectly normal the size of a rural government for such a large community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u134	Mr. President. I'm a co-sponsor at this bill for a change in local government law, along with a few other fines. Councilmen. This matter, in effect, goes on to suggest that local governments basically decide for themselves the number of representatives in it, that it is not determined by the government but that it is merely a large box. This is going against the spontaneous rights of the rural society, i.e. wants the population of the rural communities, how many representatives they feel they need to have in the countryside. If this bill becomes legalized by the law, local governments will be made up of a number of local nobles in their approvals within the bounds that the officers will never be fewer than five and no more than seven, with less than 2,000 of the population of rural society. Thus, a rural society is never obliged to increase the number of local representatives, although the population changes. At the bottom of the report, it says that there is no financial impact on the rules of the bill on government funds. I think there could be some financial impact, whether it's an increase in rural income or savings if the government decides to reduce the number of local representatives. There may be some who might increase beyond this limit if they want to, but I don't think that there is a general desire for it. There is no general desire for people in the country to add to the booth. You can hear from yourself when you talk to people that people often feel that they have enough size. I will not say whether the recent increase in the number of the city council from 15 to 23 has been successful, but this is an increase of up to a dozen percent, with a necessary budget. The city's theft has increased, and this, of course, also applies to other rural areas that may need to increase the number of its representatives in the wake of this law. I can't see what's wrong, because I'm a member of this bill, that the government lets out a little of its hands by trying to control the communities and let them just decide for themselves how many representatives they think are the need to be in their local administrations each. This may vary. A person may have opinions about this, but why not allow them to decide for themselves? I certainly know that in the present law there's some limit to that, there's some option, but what's wrong with that? What are people afraid of allowing societies to make these decisions themselves? Why do we always need to know better at the Council? We have two administrative points. Why not allow this administrative level, which we call rural level to decide for ourselves? What are they afraid of? This could lead to saving. This could lead to the simplicity, and today, in which several political groups talk about shrinking the blunder, I am so full of it, just putting it into the league phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-24-25.u135	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the production of infusion fluids for medical use. My importers on this proposal have a problem. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnad, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir and Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir. The proposal should be submitted by a health minister to re-examine the practicality of restarting infusion fluids and medical infusions in this country. In particular, safety, costs, and environmental factors of such production will be evaluated. The secretary will submit a report to the General on May 1, 2020. A respectable president. A similar proposal was made at a 140th legion and 139th legislatures, but something has been changed. Thus, in 2002, the production of infusion fluids at the Icelandic pharmaceutical store was terminated. Until then, such fluids had been produced mainly within the country, although more complex formulations were produced and transported abroad. In November 2005, however, a report by the National Hospital work group ◯ University Hospital was published entitled A Workgroup to prepare infusions at a Land Hospital ▪ University Hospital and is accompanied by the proposal. Briefly, in 2005 the need for the production of Sikhs was annually 230,000 litres when combined with intravenous, irrigation, and laser fluids as well as about 120,000 litres of dialysis fluid. The nature of the case suggests that there is a greater need today, probably somewhere between 10 and 155% higher in terms of the population growth as well as by increasing number of tourists and increasing age. The report also suggests that production of such production units would require up to 1 million litres due to potential trauma, to produce flu epidemics or other epidemics. The report also shows that it is important to think specifically of the maintenance of infusion fluids within the country if there are disasters that would make it difficult to arrive awake for a while. The report estimated that with national production, 16 jobs would be created, with many requiring specialized skills. The nature of the matter is clear that the cost of stocking would result from such production, and the 2005 report estimated that this amount would be nearly 700 million. The cost today may vary from 1,350,400 million to 1,350,400 million. However, the cost of units such as this is in the range of 3,350,400 million precalculated, and this is a significant amount of money. However, what was not addressed in the report at the time is the environmental factors that inevitably follow such production as this, i.e. It's a waste of production, like this, to move into a hundred tons of water, which is really plenty of water in Iceland and we always made ourselves up to 2002. The path of these measures is considerable, and therefore there is good reason to determine whether the account is still the same as if it is not of any independent value to return to production here. As I said, these include not only environmental factors but also security factors, such as those that could develop in relation to natural disasters, in association with serious infections, such as epidemics, etc. The aim of the proposal is, then, that a minister should check the practicalness of domestic production for these factors and that it would be assumed that a minister would report the case no later than the spring of 2020. After this discussion, I propose, a respectable president. A medical committee, and I look forward to dealing with this situation in that committee.
