ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for the 1st. Smoke. No., God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, will be absent on a few trips abroad in public service until April 12. So today, on Tuesday, April 2, at the General Assembly, he is serving as a deputy of the 1st Independence Party list in the district, Albert Guðmundsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u2	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 1090 on committees, groups, professional groups and Department council, from Inga Sæland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u3	A respectable president. I saw a headline in human life this weekend, and it asks: "Why is it so expensive to get sick in Iceland? Is it financial failure to become sick of cancer in Iceland? Why is it that the cost of getting sick from cancer can exceed a million besides loss of employment? It's gonna cost, for example. not a penny, not a dollar, getting sick in Britain. We're talking about the cost of medicine and all kinds of expenses up to 400,000. But what really hits me is that a person in the country has to pay 600,000 bucks. for travel costs. I'm going to read another clearly in this article, with the permission of a president: ▪ I accept that most energy and worry go through paper, applications, financial and so forth. How different it is that we, too, are going to cancer, causing people to suffer spiritual harm because of economic anxiety! It is exhausting, and we are shamed by the Generals that we should resist the fact that people who become ill will be dealing with financial concerns and are not at home. This is not limited to those with cancer, including those with children. The fact that a child is sick means that his parents become financially and unable to keep even an apartment or afford food or drugs is a disgrace to us. I ask: How on earth can we let this go on year after year without any response?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u4	Mr. President. Last month, I turned up a request for a travel, industrial and innovation minister about RVs, called Campers, in English. The minister's answers were received this week, and there's a lot of interesting things. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to learn about this. It is noteworthy, first of all, that the number of sleepers in such vehicles outside normal tents is not fully known, but it is likely to be 150,000,250,000 a year. Thus, there could be a total of between 2%◯3% of all inns, and the cost of a stay could be in the range of 45 to75 million each year. These figures, however, are warning that not so far considered special for these accommodations but that they are counted as tenting. The inquiry also asked if it would be possible to collect innate taxes from renting such cars from the rental car, i.e. When the car is rented out. In fact, there is nothing in the law of a bedkeeping fee that prevents it. However, it is currently assumed that the car owners will pay for the accommodations they visit, i.e. is in the camproom. Congress officials know the debate that has surfaced between them that such cars often stay outside defined areas, sometimes even causing trouble or trouble. On the other hand, if the host's fee was collected from the rental car, it would be possible to direct the cars into a standard tent area and thus reduce access to an area outside them. It is happy that a minister believes that a travel - service team that is now being paid in accordance with the Government Treaty should look at this route or similar in order to collect the fee. This would be a wise economic course as well as a good way to direct tourists to a place to stay where they are expected to have a place of the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u5	Mr. President. The climate will be carried out in small, large steps. It is important to keep all of them in the real way and to inspire optimism. Do not minimize policy or success, even claim that nothing is done knowingly and that we have seen that we have only ten years to go by, after that the struggle is lost. It is revealed in the reply of the highest. Environment and resource secretary to my query for transport agreements that the Commission, institutions and companies in the majority state should set up climate policy. The aims that can be set in it are to increase the proportion of workers who have transport contracts in which workers use public transportation or eco-friendly travel methods to travel to and from work. However, it is up to each individual member to decide whether such agreements are offered, and I encourage them to be made as all, most and most of them. Besides, I asked about the carbon balance of flights and other things. Then it is stated in the European Commission climate policy that the Commission is expected to coordinate its activities, including emissions, resulting from international and international flights of workers. Further, the policy requires state institutions for such carbon balance. You can hear and see that this is a real step that we are supposed to take in less than that, and that is enough to give us more optimism. That is why it is very important that we speak differently from what we do, either members of the press or experts, because there is no need to speak any step in climate coordination or climate rivalry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u6	Mr. President. The history of road construction and reforms on 60 Western roads, south of the West, is long and strict. It is not a reason to trace the details here but only less clearly that the latest change in the long preparatory process is that in the fall of the Soviet government took a lot of work at the preparation of a major organization, on the basis of a change. I have great respect for the work the local government did last autumn. Among other things, two local meetings discussed these matters were well attended. There was a clear discussion from the Organization for a possible timeline in the decision of the rural government. January 22, 2000. Then she agreed that the main organization to be assigned to the treatment of the organization was proposed by the local government of Smokehrepps. It has now been found that the end of this matter is delayed. This project has long been fully funded in a transport program, and it is now. It is important that we first destroy uncertainty about the future or the timing of this procedure. It was a pleasure to have a member of the Independence Party, on its journey through the Westward last weekend, held a special assembly meeting in the Chets Forest, and authorized me to submit here to the council again a bill of laws on transfecting the Tech Forest, or the West War Road 60, which I had previously had brought in with members of the Northwestern Parliament. My business here in the Sermon on the Mount today is merely to enact it. I hope we can stand together to cut this knot. I believe the Council of Iceland owes its people to the Westlands that as soon as this knot and debates arise, they will be at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u7	Mr. President. Last Saturday, March 30, 70 years had passed since the Council was adopted by a synoptic decree that Iceland would be founded on the military alliance of NATO. So it has always been a dark day in our eyes of peacemakers. That day, in 1949, severe riots broke out in front of the Assembly Hall, where both of us were assembled to protest that we joined NATO and others who supported it. The group was set free and had the so - called whites, including them. Have been given to meet the Protestants with great intensity. The people in the East who did not want to enter NATO were to be called to the national hearing for the suggestion. As we move to the left movement, and also in harmony with the demands set out on the Eastfield in 1949, we have now proposed a synonym that will be provided for a national hearing asking: Do you want Iceland to go out of the Atlantic Community, NATO? The answers will be no or yes. It has always been for the better of our peacemakers to discuss such subjects, and I hope that after 70 years of walking in NATO, we will discuss the significance of being involved in such a military alliance. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u8	V.E.G. President. It was good news that came from the Karp House on a state - of - war agreement between the labor movement and the trade union on the main lines of collective agreements, with a warning to the administration of governments and negotiations and members of society. You can afford to put your hope in the end. That would be really good news for jobs and economics. I was going to discuss a government budget, and, of course, I have agreements, to negotiate, a great deal for the basis of that plan. However, I was going, not to discuss these grounds or the content of the plan, but the arrangements for the work ahead of the council and for the council committees. In the letter why. The legal committee sent to the directors of a fixed committee endeavors to put the work ahead of the job in an effort to improve its efficiency and to improve its cooperation in the progress of the situation. As a result of the large financial agenda, it is beneficial for a financial committee to get tips and reports on sectoral policies and measures to end the regular committees more closely in the matters involved. The Commission has planned to make a summary of the comments made to the Commission since the last strategy, 20191⁄2233, and stratified by regular committees so that the council can further follow up on them. Up to now, the reviews and opinions of the fasting committee have been very careful and useful to a financial committee, but at the same time, they are a number of overlaps. Then it is worth considering that so far, the council has pointed to a number of things that could be done better and provided indications in their reports, but it has not provided suggestions to change so far on the budget. In this letter it is estimated that the work ahead of us takes a few weeks, but the fixed committees give the references and indications. The budget for May 10th.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u9	Mr. President. I want to adopt a case that has been discussed for decades and is a great deal of national agreement. This morning, Dr. Ásgeir Theodors Theódór an article in the Morning newspaper on colon cancer, showing that this disease has a rising trend across predictions. As soon as the doctor encourages us to consider our health by considering, he appeals to the government for action. It is noted that within the last five years, 67 people have died each year because of this cancer involving both colorectal cancer. Hence, we should expect that the incidence of this type of cancer will increase with the nation's age. The cost of extensive screening in older age groups is very small, considering the benefits of preventing the injury from reaching a later stage. The cost of a person's life, if he wishes to have a colonoscopy, may prevent people in income - rich groups from taking that relatively simple, often painful view. The economic situation of humans must not be prevented from being screened off because of the late detection of a person for cancer of that kind. That's not acceptable. Mr. President. It's not a new solution, it's been over decades. In 2007, a council proposal was adopted. And what has happened since then? This scan has not been started yet. This is called for a clearer governmental policy on the subject. The induction is way too slow. It is a large public health issue that turns to both men and women. The important thing is, most importantly, to identify this primary cancer and thus prevent the disease from reaching an uncontrolled stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u10	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the work group on the overall policy market for students with a native language other than Icelandic has taken up the work of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Twice, equality in two languages is valuable, both for individuals and for the whole community. How important it is for children to have the opportunity to communicate in their mother tongue! Knowledge in the language has an impact on children's self - image, is essential for other language studies, and thus progress in all learning and active participation in society. Support, encouragement, and respect for study in a language in English language are important. That is where parents and schools share the responsibility. Imagine what children will miss if they cannot talk to their grandparents. During the last Friday, I met with other members of the Polish Parliament who have the responsibility of caring for and keeping in touch with the Polish family abroad. Indeed, their emphasis was that an Icelandic school system offers an opportunity to cultivate Polish and recognition in Polish as part of a formal student of Polish origin in Icelandic schools. Many things are done well in school and in other parts of the community at work with bilingual students, but there are also many challenges. Much knowledge has been built up in local schools over a relatively short period of time, but it lacks overall policy to achieve better results and that students enjoy comparable services and rights. The role of the currently appointed task force is to establish policies in the seminary and to offer suggestions on the ways to improve learning and teaching, which take into account a wide range of students from different cultures. This is a long time's work. To make real improvement, they need professional leadership and professional support in school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u11	A respectable president. Now we've got a lot of work to do. A great rise has been made in Icelandic society over the past few years. In that case, the companies have been able to use the power to create more valuable things here, provide jobs, and support the interest that has been available. At last, with the fall of WOW arr's fall, there's a mark on the sky. True, a reduction in the travel and flight of WOW was started for the fall so that the companies, e.g. in the South, were feeling contractions for WOW's fall and still still more after its collapse. We've also heard of the deficiency of fur. We've heard of the delay of projects, such as road projects and energy projects on the West, and a setback caused by a fish farm and something like that. All of this has led to people's being held in hand. Therefore, it is important that employers who employ people to pursue a valuable creation here are enabled to continue their work and to keep their business wheels going so that the valuable creations for the well - being continue. So I would like to highlight some suggestions made by members of the Independence Party in this regard and presented in the General Assembly. There are ways we can go to support our career, to continue our well - being. In this case, I would like to first mention increasing reimbursement in the arrangement all work from 60% to 100% and have a vacation house in it, with 100% reimbursed credit from work; reimbursement tax on irrigation taxes; assist the local communities and public bodies in increasing their level of health, and allowing sports and other public welfare agencies, such as Landsaves and others, to build their facilities and receive their valuable tax backs. All of this is thought to increase production now as a recession exists in tourism and elsewhere and to ensure increased social value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u12	Mr. President. It was good to wake up this morning and hear that there was a contract between parties at work. They were unusually bright, and it sounds like a creative thought to me that could lead to a novel approach. So I have high hopes for this stage. But signing, as long as it has been known, is a way of making contracts, so I pray to the highest extent. A government to keep the cards going. Right now, the challenge is whether the government is ready to play a game that much of the country's population has claimed to agree on, i.e. to lower the tax burden on the low- and intermediate groups, the groups that remained behind in the unprecedented rise in recent years. Of course, the union will face positive any suggestions aimed in this direction. In times of adversity, we Icelanders can show that we are a close - knit people, and I think we need to squeeze ourselves together after the tragic events that have swept over the last few weeks. The role of governments is to meet people where they are, not where the government wishes they would be. So she now has to board her sleeves and take action to ensure that people in the country have a decent standard of living and security and work against inequities and long - awaited stability. If it becomes necessary to form a new government in order to implement this project, then, Mr. President, it must be so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u13	Mr. President. WOW years have stopped functioning last week and have gone into bankruptcy. The consequences of bankruptcy are many and serious for thousands of individuals and families. It remains to be seen how much the impact of bankruptcy will have on rural society, the cost of unemployment insurance, the guarantee of pay and economic and employment in general, especially the national tourism. It has not been missed by anyone that WOW arra has been having a lot of trouble for a long time. The person standing here has, for example, submit two queries to the highest level. A transport minister with regard to Istavia's landing rules, their collections, and the debt of airlines to Istavia, first October of last year and again in November of the same year. Their objective was to explain whether individual airlines were collecting abnormal debt with Istavia. It was difficult to get clear answers, including Because it would not be permitted to give up the debt of individual customers. By 2018, no information was available. However, the second answer stated that debt that had gone past dues had increased by nearly a billion between 2016 and 2017, from 786 million to 1.7 billion. Mr. President. The media reports that WOW and I owe Istavia at least 1.8 billion k. However, Istavia has not confirmed that number, nor has it been denied. The question to answer is whether it is reasonable for a government company like Istavia to permit such a debt collection, how it affects competition, and most importantly whether the operation has been continued for an abnormally long time with the assistance of the government of Istavia. [[The president calls.]] Was it the will of Isvia's own owner?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u14	V.E.G. President. I have again provided a bill of changing law on public university and university law that goes beyond the bill I first proposed. The bill I had suggested would also be looked upon by individuals who had completed a boy's exam at college, but this time I go further, and the main points, not a student's test or a boy's test, will be looked at the skills and knowledge that correspond to the school's demands on preparation for university studies. It should be emphasized that students should be evaluated in a complete manner and evaluated in individuals who have completed a student's test, a boy's test, a different trade, occupational or art. This gives people an opportunity that has ended studies other than student's, but it still has sufficient experience, employment experience, and other opportunities to go to college. Even now the law requires exceptions, that college may be allowed to register students who have not completed a student's study, but it is clear that the exception contributes to the continuation of such students. With the bill, the goal is, not to open university education, but, rather, that university is more open to a wide variety of students with different backgrounds, who have enough knowledge to pursue university education in certain articles. Of course, a student's exam will be the well - organized way of preparing for a lot of college courses, but the university is in its own jurisdiction as to how to choose at school and in various departments and how to make this work according to his own head and departments. It's very special to have met a lot of people wherever I go in the country who discuss this bill with me and ask: "Why does the hospital staff who has experience and is not able to get into a nurse? Why is it that the Buddhist who has served as a member of the police for many years and with sufficient knowledge and experience should not enter the police sciences or the artist with experience in preschool studies is not to enter the preschool program? I want to change that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u15	Mr. President. News of the night, of the loss of strikes, is good. They certainly give hope that uncertainty can be reduced for individuals, families, small companies, and large ones. The commitment to contracts is, of course, with the labour market parties and they are in my opinion under it. A member of state has taken a close look at the parties and kept them involved. It is always a source of joy when you see in the country of collective agreements, especially when it includes reasonable raises, reasonable changes in working arrangements and opportunities, especially in order to continue and strengthen yourself. Most important, though, stability is not threatened with short and long - term community expenses - and I intend to assume that this is the case. There is no reason to believe that at this point the government will do what it takes to get the workforce done permanently. During our restoration, we have criticized the government for its overcrowded tax cover. It was a failure, and instead of focusing on the solution of the debate, it was primarily a compromise between the government parties themselves. No one asked for this, said one officer of the labor movement. However, the call from the labor movement was to ensure tax benefits for low incomes and intermediate income people, not for high - paying professionals, as was the expansion of the left - green government. Even if this card has not been directed to help with the discussion and even to slow it down, I intend to assume that it will be possible to complete a conversation. The ball is with the government, and we shall, of course, support it to a reasonable conclusion. A respectable president. I'm not going to ask for more this week but that the government has a plan to approach the decision of collective agreements, have a plan for her who will become her agreements this week. I will not ask for more than I have hoped for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u16	V.E.G. President. According to the news coming through this hour, it seems that collective market labour agreements are about to come to an end. It is a cause of great joy and, of course, hope that people have reached contracts that are reasonable and will create continued economic growth and prosperity in both companies and individuals and that these will prevent further damages from occurring. There is, however, one uncertainty element in these news reports, that the Iceland government is now up for this matter to help. I can honestly admit that I am not a tremendous optimism after the past 18 months or so. However, I am very excited about whether the demands or the will of the labor leader that has been reported to reduce interest here will be changed into an indicator calculation, whether such ideas will enter the solution that the government must make today. You might say that this day is a kind of stress test on the government, and we'll see in a few hours whether the government will pass this challenge. I'm gonna give her the benefit of the doubt, but I'm not optimistic. Of course, we will, in turn, move into this chair and find fault if things go wrong but, of course, hope for the best. In other words, I eagerly await the intervention of the government to resolve this dispute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u17	A respectable president. There is a very interesting situation among the labour agreements that have challenged the government to reduce taxes, and with the financial secretary of the Independence Party, which, above all, would like to lower taxes, and the prime minister from the left green, which I think would be quite enough to reduce taxes on low-payers, as is the requirement for the general population. That sounds very possible. But financial suggestions, however, actually look the opposite. That's where the tax reduction is mainly beneficial for those with intermediate to high income. Any tax appeal actually benefits them. I encourage the government to do good in these matters. In recent years, there have been a number of earthquakes in the Icelandic labour market since the advice of a nipper brought in into this first wave of grass. That wave has not yet reached even. We are still sailing through that storm. It will be interesting to see the conclusions we reach by this challenge to the labour market to the government. I'm going to be modest about it -- moderately because I don't see the sign of the financial agenda where there would definitely have been an opportunity to put these emphasis on. But it wasn't done, and I don't understand why. Hence, seeing this conclusion this morning brought some optimism. But the future is on the side of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u18	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for coming to this special discussion about losses due to the employment and pension funds of older citizens and disability. Among the questions we're going to try to answer is: Is it not the result of poverty that taxes 36.94% cut to 45% of the senior citizens' job and pension income incomes and disability, as they do today? Is normal at 60,000 K. Pays from Pension Funds are reduced to 100%? The government would profit by allowing older citizens to work as willing and without impairment. The profit would be in tax returns and would improve the health of those who want or can win. To prevent work from working with those who want to work with the sake of their money is nothing more than economic violence that can take on older citizens or microorganisms. It's ridiculous to cut jobs. It also depends on the pension fund, which is nothing more than the pay and interest of the person. It's the worst kind of property tape. Why is it tolerated by government groups, by the same categories, and by the half of the Pension Funds from Pension Funds and Parts of the State Insurance Office, and without any impairment to senior citizens? The one with 1 million from a pension fund gets 124,053 bucks. 3 months from TR, i.e. Just the same amount as the one with 125,000 bucks. From his pension fund. This is an amazing mess because if we take these two people, the person who has only 125,000 will get one. From the treasure of life, which is usually low-payers or women, working half as much as half a job, paid off 233,000 bucks. The other one with a 1 million from a pension fund, what will he get paid for? Yeah, he gets paid back 738,000 bucks. I'll get 124,000 bucks. from the state. How can this be done? With the permission of a president, I'm going to read up the word on the insurance website: The money fund is too low, so you don't have the right to 50% in pension and 50% from the pension fund, relative to the pension fund you give up. The pension fund needs to be over 124,053 k. in a month so you have the right time. But you can apply for a general pension. Who are you sleeping with the most? Yes, women. Because the person has not achieved his high pensions, he can be denied $125,000. a million dollars a man gets. For two years after the release of older citizens from that financial trap, deserts by a crown are nothing more than financial violence that has lasted for two years. The treasure is about 20 billion in plus which he has proudly managed to get from microchips with a crown to a crown, by not removing the damage done at the same time that was done to older citizens. Then age - related microenergy exchange would stop cutting down the forwarding, thereby extending its purpose to those who have not collected the rights to a pension fund. In decommissioning a crown against a cent, the sufferers would enjoy pay that should improve their posts, such as death settlements, mother-offs, and fathers' wages, medical benefits, pensions, and special savings. Special property savings is nothing more than interest and pay and should not be cut off in return. Special supplementation is 63,000 k. a month, and if a 1 million special savings microwaves take it out to pay for housing, medicine, food, clothing for their children, the government will use it in the form of taxes and impairment. This is not to be done with any other employee or senior person who owns special requirements. The worst lay among the sufferers is that they can't win anything. They've had to stop working because there's a hundred thousand. The pay will be 0 due to a dollar in comparison to the decrease of a cent and the specific remuneration of 63,000 cents. disappears within one month. Is it not true that everyone is equal to the law, or is it okay to place sick and injured people, desperate people, in every aspect of harassment financially because of their illness? The highest. A minister will answer when illegal economic violence will be no more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for filming this discussion here. The discussion has directed to me two questions that I will seek to answer. First, as for the defect as built up. It's true that 45% of your employment and pension income earns a small amount of payment on a pensioner. In this regard, however, it should not be forgotten that in the general sense of $25,000. free income limit for all the incomes of a pensioner. In addition, since January 1, 2018, there have been a special 100,000 dollars in value. income markets for professional pensioners, which means that they can earn 100,000 a month of employment without any effect on the pay of pensions from the state's insurance agency. It is, therefore, only a income beyond this income limit that affects the reduction in the payment of a pensioner. It is noteworthy, however, that once the pension system was simplified and changes were made in order to further the employment of older citizens, the elderly with recorded employment income from the insurance agency have not increased and actually declined substantially between 2017 and 2018. The fact is, only 8% of those paid a pension from an insurance agency at the start of 2018 had some employment income, or 2,800 individuals. Of these, over 1,600 were earning less than 100,000. The joust line. In the case of a micro-energy donor, it's more complicated. There are various rules regarding the various reformal classes, such as the senator's case. I've stressed changing the system to simplify it so that the improvement system for micro-energy pensioners will become the most relevant thing for pensioners. A report by the staff is expected very soon, with proposals for a new improvement system being submitted. I hope we can attack the system as early as possible and take it. the impairment mentioned. The second question. A senator asks: "Is it normal to have 60,000 dollars? " The payments from the pension fund are reduced to 100%. These are the progressive improvements that have been with the people for more than 10 years. At the outset, she was aimed at ensuring that the pensioners would have a minimum of certain incomes for their contributions, including the benefits of social security. Relatively few received their compensation at baseline. Over the years, however, the extension has increased proportionally more than other social security benefits, thus gaining greater and greater significance than expected at baseline. Although it has helped many individuals, it is unquestioning that all income affects the amount of money it has been called in return to a dollar in everyday use. A senator correctly entered his opening words. I think it's time to put it off and simplify the improvement system by disability in a similar way that has been done in the case of sensibilities and simple calculations. However, in this particular example there is still a problem. A senator spoke in his own way, about 60,000. The amount of currency you pay would be about 100% reduced, so it's not quite that simple. In the example, the senator seems to assume that the individual will be paid an age - related disability supplement. . i.e. that he was very young when he was evaluated for disability for the first time. In contrast, the average age of disability during the first energy assessment is about 40 years. In that case, a pension fund has to reach more than 90,000 dollars. This is to be done on a monthly basis. I don't run it here to minimize the question of what. The senator, or his presentation, is first and last to point out the complexity of this system overall and the interaction between classes and impairments and the need for the overall simplicity of the system. Therefore, the government has placed a high priority on global re-evaluation of the system by reducing the system's subclasses in mind and streamline, and that at the same time the damages that are built into the system will be reduced. I have high hopes that that this project will succeed because there has been a fairly good political partnership over it at the end of the debate, that there is a need for a simple attack on the system, and that these reductions need to be reduced. The government is working on this and has a budget set in the current year. We also discussed this with the development of a financial program, and we are going to achieve that goal. I have high hopes for the current work, and it is important that it begin to take the light of the day so that we can work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A compliment for bringing up an issue of this important matter. And I thank you very much. Minister for his contribution here. Do not delay in solving disability from the man - made poverty trap they have already had. The middle party wants to take on this suit. In the political resolution of the party approved at a council meeting this weekend, it says by permission of the President: THE nation of Israel is growing old, as is true of neighboring nations. The increasing number of the elderly in the coming years is in the demographics of data and predictions. To that end, it is important to act in a timely and correct manner. The media wants older citizens to have the means to live decent lives. The government has not heard much of the demand to improve the quality of the social security in the past - which, of course, includes the elderly as well as the desperate - ◯ package of pay development. The payoff target increase to $ 100,000 is overdosed. The central category wants professional income not to reduce pension income incomes, which is calculated as being unconcerned that such a operation does not cost the state's funds as much as a dollar. The central category also feels that it is necessary to raise the cost market for financial gains and that there will be fixed reductions due to payments made from pension funds that have undermined belief in the pension system and that the elderly underpayers will be left as well as those who have not paid their pensions during their working years. The middle class wants the elderly to be enabled to live in their homes, but when such arrangements are no longer possible. The middle class wants to take the initiative to build a nursing home for the elderly who meet the needs of the day. Older ones who have fulfilled their life's work deserve to live in good standing and security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u21	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, for the discussion. He is tireless in discussing the issues of older citizens and disability, and we are almost always in agreement with them. I thought he brought an important point that we may not have completely agreed on, but here he gave an example of a person who gets 1 million in pension money but still gets 125,000 bucks. It's an insurance agency. I got help on the computer, and this case is exactly the way he proposes it. Of course, this is not in any way consistent with what we've been talking about in this room, that those with high pensions are also receiving benefits from a insurance agency. A respectable president. I think it's very important that these rules be revised. That's extremely important. I also hear that certain members of society can, e.g. have a very high salary can use special savings during the first few years when they reach pension, thus obtaining full benefits from an insurance agency. It's not a system we're thinking about. It's not a system we've talked about defending. So I agree with what. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson said it's a task that needs to be done. We're talking about trying to keep the system fair. A lot of people get a little too little compensation, as we have seen, and I think it is a project to bring the high reformers and bring their income to the less fortunate. That's the project ahead, we agree on it, and I'm going to thank you. A senator for calling attention to this amazing speech through a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to let me start by saying thank you for recording this material, which is unfortunately old enough: a decrease in the social security system that leaves thousands of pensioners in a financial wolf crisis. We must step out of this debilitating system of humanity and political attraction. It's a community policy. I'm not really going to talk about impairment. There's another group at this stage that we in the United States are above our minds, a group who don't know the limit, just the need and the poverty. They are elderly people, probably out of their lives, who may have been out of work markets, or who had chronic health problems, have little or no pension rights, and are drawing out their lives from a stolen pension system. They're very rare Icelanders. This is a situation that is a problem in our culture with the sixth most happy nation in the world. There are at least 3,000 people 65 years of age and older who live under the poverty line in Iceland, 8% older citizens. Sadly, there are probably a lot more of them. These figures can be found in a recent report by the Department of Social Affairs on the provision of the elderly. This includes people who live through anxiety, distress, and poor quality of life. This is a reality in Iceland today. This is the most manageable part of the 35,000 senior citizens who have the right to pay payment from an insurance agency. Likewise, the shadow of poverty is a disgrace to such a large group. This is not just for the elderly. It is also the lot of large groups of disability. What are the suggestions for improvement? Where are they and when do they appear? I'm asking the highest. Minister of the question, because we have no choice. We have to do this right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u23	A respectable president. The purpose of the social security system from the beginning has been to assist those who need assistance. The labor movement fought for the law on the common insurance for 15 years before the law on them was finally accepted. So this is a fundamental part of our welfare system. But it is proper to remember to assist those who need help, and such assistance needs to be prioritised, direct support to where it is most needed. One of the first projects of this government was to raise the income market of senior citizens to 100,000, end up the priorities of their interest groups. This provision has made a considerable contribution to the older citizens of the industry. However, an increase in the cost market has not resulted in an increase in senior citizens with commercial income, and it actually decreased between 2017 and 2018. Last December, a group of members of the Department of Social Affairs published a more thorough report on the status of older citizens in what is common in society. Happily, that group is not large, but it is important to focus first on that group so that it does not remain in poverty. That's where I think we always have to start. We must always prioritize those who have the greatest need for help. There is a special advance of the remuneration that has been criticized for having too hard a decrease, a dollar against a dollar, but the remuneration was intended to ensure minimum income if other incomes and benefits of microenergy pensioners do not meet certain minimum limits. I think everybody agrees that the limits are way too high and that's why we're going to change. President. I believe there is good reason to simplify the systems of their age. They have been made up of unsatisfied solutions today, and they have been working for a long time. These changes need to ensure a progressive approach and that those who do so can improve their own interests. But we need to be successful, solidarity, and landing so that someone does not always disappear when it comes to the end of something in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u24	President. It is stated in the Pirate code, which is the joint Declaration of Pirates around the world that Pirats value immunity. They strive to establish a socialistic society where the strong protect and help those who are sick. This is the foundation on which we build and even Why Pirantar and I have given much importance to correcting the ideal interests of vulnerable groups in the community. Correction of the ideals of these groups is not only about securing human rights but also about wise and responsible policy. The present system does little more than ensure the poverty of those who depend on pensions, an arrangement that is completely crazy in view of the knowledge we have today about the consequences of poverty on people's mental and physical health. Clearly, then, the elimination of poverty is a future investment. The inhibition of the freedom of movement and the ability to improve the quality of life in the form of reduced and low pensions will never be savings. To argue that such a lack of farsighted vision exposes a serious lack of understanding of interfaith. The aims of the social security system are, not drunks with strict conditions, but payments that contribute to a person's ability to support himself and live independent lives. The aims of an independent life involves the breaking of poverty and the loss of freedom that comes with it. President. Inwards are more than roads, and bridges: they are the people of the land. To ensure the success of society, we have to invest in people, individuals, and enable them to live independent lives on their own terms. I have noticed that in this fine discussion, many members, including ministers, have talked about the need to simplify the improvement system, cancel the progress process, and reduce or eliminate the impairment. That's great. However, pensioners have been waiting a long time for these changes, and the Piratars have one matter that now sits on a welfare committee because the management officials refuse to take it out of the commission, most likely because they are afraid to vote against it when it comes to Congress. [[The president calls.]] Why can't you take this matter out and just settle it right away? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter. The tragedy of a crown against the decrease, long out of the U.S. disability Department, is that it has been in the discussion for more years to reexamine that system. At least A decade has been closer to continuous work on a reexamination of pensions for disability and older citizens. It was successful to complete this work with the older citizens of 2016, but unfortunately, they remained poor. I fear that there will be a very small change in the coming years, for it is not to be seen in the financial programme of this government that any funds are meant to be taken at expense, e.g. Omission to a crown against a dollar's impairment. This cost has been estimated at a rate of nearly 10 billion or less. Hopefully, this change will lead to a reduction in the incidence of disability here. At first, it is expected that by that change, there will be a number of financial contributions. But it is obvious when the government's financial programme is not expected to do so. As a result, the biggest question comes to the highest. Minister to be: How should the promised changes be financed? It should be noted that a minister has recently sheltered behind the fact that correction of the decline of disability is not possible, since there is no budget for the current budget for that adjustment. The same can be said of this. It's got to need some means of money to attack the necessary system changes. They don't have the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u26	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, thanks to my platoon brother. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson was eager to bring her in for the special discussion today and the highest. Minister for being with us here. We talk about the decrease in pension incomes of the elderly and the poor and the commercial resources of the elderly. We seem to refuse to recognize that in these social groups there are man - made, maligned people, and always in the administration of every government. I've previously identified it as "whisper. " paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson pointed to it earlier. The government's five - year financial program has no intention of trying to meet these poorest people, meeting them by taxing poverty. The opportunity is now. The government has the right now to adapt the situation to a workforce, e.g. meeting the demands of the underpayers and the labors to stop taxing poverty. A group of people also owns a bill on a welfare committee that has been sitting there and unable to enter a council, a bill that is designed to stop cutting the pay of older citizens. Really, though, we are not in this discussion talking about the exact group being left behind, i.e. the sufferers and older citizens who are on the striped pay from the social security system. We are trying to meet those who could possibly continue to share in our community and work with us to build it up instead of turning them away from it by such means and the sort of degree of self - preservation has not yet been achieved. That's why I ask, despite the fact that it takes about 10 billion to cut off a dollar from the disability crisis, is there anyone talking about what human resources would come back to when the job market came and really participate in our community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for bringing up this important case and the highest. Minister of Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason for his entry. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken of the importance of taking a dollar off against a coin, and we need to speed it up. I'd like to address the issues of the elderly and the labour market. The pension group continues to grow, being 67 years of age and older. It is the age and age limit that we have set up as the right line for retirement, and in general, the age group is 67 to 170 years, the one we have expected to disappear from the pay market. But does this date still apply? Improved health and feeling make people more active and ready to work longer. Reeducation is a key factor in the field of many jobs and is the maintenance of ability to perform a variety of tasks. The future work market will be more flexible and will anticipate different needs and skills. All of this increases the demands that you need to work longer. In addition, we need to maintain the strength, abilities, and experience of people in this country as long as they are happy, which can also increase their resources. It is only after preparing for the workforce and their environment for people to stay there longer. We need to look at the fact that this age range, 67 years, no longer applies. From January 1, 2018, the average payout for professional pensioners was increased to 100,000, meaning that they can earn 100,000 dollars. in a month of employment without any influence on the payment of pensions from the government insurance agency. This enhances the flexibility of a person's ability to work to some extent against his pension and contribute to flexible retirements. A respectable president. Not only are the numbers of older ones growing but they are very different from those of this group. Thus, looking to this group with greater interest is essential for the hard work market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u28	President. I appreciate this discussion. It is needed, and there is no need to sharpen the present government in these matters. I would like to mention two points that have been discussed during the discussion. I'm amazed they're surprised they haven't increased the number of elderly people in the commercial market because of the 100-th millennium they can earn. Who's going to storm out of the chair to earn a hundred-thousand? Excuse me. On the one hand, the other is the reason older ones haven't reached the workforce for the 100-thousand call, I'm afraid they're working black. We have made the generation that created this society to work black. We have a flexible retirement, or retirement, in word, aged 65-580, but we still forbid employees to work in their 70's. It is true that if they are willing and able to work for 73 years, they have a central bill for government workers. You can't take it off a committee. We offered Christmas proposals for a budget talk that businesses don't spoil pension money, just don't. It's been cut off. We also stated that a cent against a cent cut would stop at the annual conventions, but a minister suggested that he try to scare or force an invalid to set up a staff assessment before this payment. The committee on this subject was discussed, and everyone knows that in order to adopt a workcapability assessment, part - time work is required. You have to start by creating part-time jobs, especially in the government, with local communities, and by negotiations with professional drivers, so that those qualified to earn some crowns will not run into a wall at the end of the assessment. Therefore, it is shameful that ministers should be forced to adopt a work record before this is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u29	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank you for this vital and varied discussion. There is much to discuss. We all agree that we want to do well with the groups that are discussed, older citizens, and desperate, even though it is possible to argue whether two groups should always be together and mixed together, as different as they are in many ways. I agree that there is a great deal of urgency to make changes in microsurgents, as has been done in older citizens. I hope we succeed in finishing it first, and it's very important. It is also important that neither of these systems be built in such a way that people are trapped in some kind of poverty trap. We all agree on this, that we want to reduce the decline. We want to help those who need it. That's why we need to be a little clear about what the measures we take. I don't think it's a big deal to work on measures that are paying off money from social security, government funds, public tax dollars, to people who have enough progress today, while there are people who don't have enough progress. We need to adjust our actions so that we can help those in need of additional advance, that we do not pay from a wealth of money to people who have enough money between their hands. That's what we need to have completely explained. I agree with the importance of allowing people to work, and that's why we've put in a vacation target and we're reducing the decrease from 100% to 45%. There we need to continue, and we do not do so only with increasing social wealth. This need to be observed, and these standards can be used in many other places too, but so, unfortunately, the laws of the State just do not work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u30	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Listening to the highest part was remarkable. Social and child-friendly ministers claim that they want to reduce the disability of disability because that's what we are, I think, all of us agree and we won't be able to get it through at last. Let's stop purring and start doing. We've talked about it so many times, but it doesn't change anything, neither will it be for the government of the present. Minister will take the jury. We all believe this system is completely crazy. That's unfair and stupid. And not only so, but two different groups, older cities, and micropunchers, incite each other, as wrong as they are today. It's just so expensive to correct this, always tell the government. But to them I would like to say that it is also very expensive to keep people in deep poverty. It has severe consequences into the health system and the social system. It is expensive for the State, and it is expensive for the communities. Besides, it's quite remarkable to listen to the highest. A minister reports that after the rise of the vacation markets in older citizens, there has been no increase in the number of those who have attended work. So there is no reason for this to be so expensive to the treasure of the world, for we should allow people to get the work they possibly can get out of painful poverty. I don't get tired of pointing out that as we put a lot of money on strengthening the activity of the people who have gone into disability, with all kinds of effective courses and funding, we punish them for using their increased power. That's not a sign of a good financial lock, Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to say that listening to a word is quite remarkable. Congress members of the Independence Party who seem to be most concerned about the people who have enough. They've come here two, and they've been especially talking about the groups that have enough between their hands and that they have... [[This is wrong.]] [[This is wrong. It's...]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u31	Give a speaker a sound. Not frontal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, I want to say that it was quite remarkable to listen to a word. While the rest of us may be looking more at those who do not have a knife and a spoon, the members of the Independence Party who have come here seem to be most concerned about those who have enough to fit their hands. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. It's not really possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u33	The president doesn't want frontal calls and such language at all. But the speaker's talk is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u34	Yeah, but I'm gonna have to finish my speech. She was very timed out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u35	Hv. A senator is 30 seconds out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u36	Yes, it is because another speaker took the time. Yes, they differ in concern for the people here at the General Assembly. We in the United States are more concerned about those who don't have knives and spoons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u37	Mr. President. This is an important discussion we have about our social security system, the security network that we as a community have established for those who are older or who are unable to support themselves through employment. I wholeheartedly agree that, of course, there is a decrease in proportion, whether because of employment, pension income, or anyone else, part of that discussion. I'd also like to agree with what's been said here, that it's necessary to simplify the system even if it's only for those who use the system and because they need confidence in their rights. It's a thing that matters. Cutting off a cent in return is part of it. But I also feel that it is important that we do not fall into the trap that as soon as we talk about the simplicity of the system, the discussion will be simplified because it is about many different factors that need to play together in a reasonable way. There I find it important to keep a few things in place. One of them is that only about A quarter of the microenergy donor has some employment income, so we can't focus on just the decrease in the proportion of people with employment income. We also need to think of others who have nothing to do with themselves. To reach the workforce, we must give more attention to rehabilitation. We must place responsibility for the workforce, and hence our community, to hire people with limited employment skills. [[The president calls.]] And then we have to look at the interaction between pension income and social security. Sadly, there is a huge debate that there is no room for in this special discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u38	President. When you look at the numbers, you begin to suspect strongly that it's just a high political matter. If we look, for example. the Law covenant, i.e. Who are the voters of the currently in charge, their priorities in older citizens - the voter party is there - than those with the lowest income. In those with the lowest income, even in the left movement, there is a decrease in the proportion of those choosing it. At other levels of income, it prefers the left - except those at the lowest level of income. So we see, and now we look at the Treaty itself, that if we are to try to appreciate what this government is going to do for an invalid, it will appear on page. 30, followed by everything else, right next to the last page, these social security issues fall into place. So, with President's permission, that's what we're talking about: There will be an increase in the income of the elderly to 100,000 dollars. As soon as next New Year's Eve. The elderly put first. The following talk is about disability, and then only a conversation with an invalid person should be made. They should not be lowered. Why not just turn them down at the same time? It's quite possible to do it, it's fair to do it. Older ones can earn their income without being affected. Sometimes people want to continue making money. We want them to be active only in the workforce. Everyone knows that's good. What about those who are unemployment workers? These are all groups of people we want to provide a safety network. The elderly receive the hundred thousand, that's 69,000 bucks. for people who are on unemployment. They receive government benefits - yet they are permitted to earn 69,000 dollars. without being impaired, because we want them to be in the workforce. We want them to have one foot there and try to get on it. That's exactly what we want with disability. We want disability to be able to, during the days they have strength and energy - very different - to reach the workforce. We will see this happening when other categories or categories that put these people in higher priority - these declines will disappear. These impairments may disappear during this terms if there's enough pressure on the government, but I don't hold my breath in this regard. [[The president calls.]] And it's going to disappear too, when all educated people who are falling out of a job market because of coldness start pushing down their friends, then maybe there'll be enough political pressure. But he is not present today, not in these categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u39	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for starting a discussion on this subject. The individuals affected by employment and pension income are varied and they have different benefits. This group is as much cross-section by the nation as by anyone else. The picture that this situation gives us of society is not particularly beautiful, especially when we see the effects on the most income or on the worst. But this too is a fair matter. Every government has the right to treat them fairly. The fact is, the system we've built up with writing people from work instead of encouraging them. In this context, it is important to focus on the positive effects of being a part of society, e.g. Through work, a positive effect on your health, both physically and spiritually, to feel that you are important. I'm not saying that everyone should be moved to work at all, but it's undefeated that governments especially trouble people in the community. Here is probably the largest contributing factor, one that works best in the system that acts as the most inhibitory unit of the requested groups. This is just the aspect that the government has to offer, which is the most important factor in making pensioners difficult for them to do their job. It's undefeated. What, then, stands in the way of improvement? Is that the cost? If he's that big. It is impossible for a government to eliminate the losses completely, then why not begin to do so in part and monitor the results, measure the rate of increase in employment activities among those who accept employment and pension schemes, older and desperate, measure the increases in quality of life for those who have suffered the impairments and then take some time after the position and ask: What are the costs of our community being reduced to this day? [[The president calls.]] I think that's enough. I think there's every reason to take the real position and say this. We can't keep arguing about it here, and we can't keep pushing it. It is simple to find out what the real cost is and to stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u40	A respectable president. I thank the senators very much for the discussion today. I take my mind to many things that have been done there, like a dollar a bill from Porta's committee to a vote. Also, no budget is expected to eliminate a dollar from the decrease, such as at the end of the year. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson pointed out. What we have discovered today is the fact that all classes want to cancel a dollar in return. All classes promised for their last election to take out a dollar and just like that right away. That is why the failure to do so today is incomprehensible. What scares me the most is that 4 billion are estimated to be in this situation, but it caused 1.1 billion, which has reached 2.9 billion, and it is trapped. What does it mean that 4 billion people are going to do this when it probably takes about 12 billion to do this? Where's the trick? I hope a minister will be able to answer the question, " If it costs 12 billion, how can I take a dollar back with a quarter of a dollar? ' I think it's kind of a basic answer we need, and the other thing is that it's a little strange half of half of a pension that a pensioner can get to get those who really need to get half in half an hour and continue working with less than 124,000 bucks. You can't get a pension fund, but it's been put to the people who have nothing to do with it. There's a piece of this in our system that's terrible. It's become so penniless, and this monster has become so big that no one can hold it. That's why we have to reset, we're just supposed to do it right here and now: We're going to reset the system, create a new system, human who respects people's rights so that they can live with dignity and not in extreme poverty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to finish this discussion, thank you for it. I've always felt that she was a good, perfunctory person. I'm going to end up agreeing with what. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, who speaks of the present system of microenergy pensioner patients becoming large pieces of buttock and needs a complete review. That's why we do exactly that work. I've found nothing else in this room for the representatives who are in this office, who are still in the mood. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, huh? paritaprevir "The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir and of what is it?" paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, but that both in this discussion here and in their presentation there are some agreements on these matters, which first attract to simplify the system and second, that we look out to do more for those who truly need and have less between the hands. This work means that all of us do. At the same time, however, we need to make changes in our system, support our rehabilitation, help people get back into the job market. At present, if the number of young people in disability increases in the same way as they have been, the numbers will change. It went to this group of 42 billion in 2016, in the form of a microenergy pension. It will reach 90 billion in 2030. It's because we don't do anything, we don't add the income of the groups in there. That is why we need to achieve a system change and a dollar in favor of the decrease, but there are other factors to support people to go to the job market, the one that falls out of a job market. Therefore, we need these changes because we truly need to improve the quality of this group. To do so, however, we need to be able to make sure that our growth is not the same as it has been. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think we all agree on, more or less. But I appreciate the discussion. She was good, and I appreciate it. A senator for filming the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u42	Mr. President. I support this bill on forests and forestry brains. I am glad that this laid the groundwork for foresting to grow and become a foundation for stable employment in far and wide over the country for a long time. We have to make a big effort in forestry, and this is a step in that direction. Under the commission, I made a note that includes putting a question mark on the fact that the Agency's authority will be cleared as much as it really is, as is common among the institutions today. It's hard to see, but it's all too common in the administration. That's where I'm talking about the guilt that goes to 23rd over the woodpecker. The bill. I also disagree with a 22nd degree. where a day's fines allowed to be placed on wrongdoers are up to 500,000 dollars. There I feel too busy - as well as the fact that the wood industry is given new and unrelated tasks, as stated in Article 21. The bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u43	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A committee for reviewing the matter and putting it forward as it is now. I think that was a reasonable adjustment. This too is a wise system of government changes in this vital fund. But I would like to reiterate what happened here yesterday, that I think the general assessment of how we organize our contributions on research and development in terms of equality in order to make this even more efficient than it is currently. Then I'd also like to emphasize what was said in the case of the highest court. Prime Minister for the Ministry, or Prime Minister - that there will be a consultation with all political parties on the order of the representative. But, of course, I support this case. This situation has its beginning, and evolution is good. However, there are some things that we need to consider even more carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u44	President. This proposal transforms an equal rights fund and brings it to a better source. It involves reactions to #metoo, where research related to sexual harassment is added to the fund's funding projects. I just come up here to celebrate the fact that this field of research should be supported and expressed with joy by the committee measuring that the fund will continue to operate after the original schedule for five years of service is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u45	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1217, case 766. These are the bill for changes in animal diseases laws, protection against them, food laws, and the law to monitor feed, crop, and seed products. This is about the import of livestock products. At the beginning of my talk, I would like to trace to the very beginning of this discussion before the changes made by the bill will be considered. On January 1, 1994, the EEA Convention adopted Iceland as an exception to the rules I. An Annex of the Convention on Animal Health and Plant Health. On January 1, 1997, the revised rules set out in this field, leading to the decline of Iceland's third country on the export of marine products to the European Union. This would have called for huge demonstrations and expenses. Such a change would have affected the export of Icelandic food, so it was decided to start a discussion on the review of Iceland's deliveries from Annex I. The talks ended with Iceland's mending shapes that protected seafood but kept their status on farming products. In February 2002, the European Union's new food legislation, which included food laws, was valid. In particular, the separation between the different production sources, including livestock products and sea products, was eliminated. The European Commission requested that these legislation be taken up fully in the EEA Convention, where these rules could no longer be introduced and taken only by sea products. It was as early as 2005 that the Icelandic government agreed to start a discussion on the recording of EU food legislation in the EEA. The European Union's requirement for this discussion was that a so-called permit should be canceled, but it is forbidden to import meat, eggs, and unbound dairy products to the country except by the particular source of the Food Agency. A meat import request requires proof that it has been stored at least -18°C for one month for toll pay. In the European Union food legislation, on the part of Iceland, the only requirement for Iceland not to donate the prohibition on the import of live animals was given. In June 2006, the current government agreed to agree on the recording of the food legislation in the EEA Convention, which includes: was expected to be dropped. This arrangement was then firmly established on the part of the government in 2007, in advance of the approval of the Generals. In 2008, then, a growing marine eco-efficiency minister doubled a bill to lead the EU food law into law. The primary endpoints were in accordance with the agreement that the Icelandic government had made with the EU and the joint EEA committee had agreed on. The bill, in accordance with the above commitments, required execution of the license team system, but neither of the bill was successful at the General Assembly. Between 2008 conventions, a Danish lawyer and a European specialist consulted on the possibility of Iceland to limit the import of unfried meat. His conclusion was conclusively in terms of systematic surveillance of imported meat from another EEA. Such a checkup would be forbidden, even if nothing would prevent the Icelandic government from making a quick check on import. In 2009, the so - called marine economist and agricultural minister presented a comparable bill that had, however, changed several things, as described in a paper with the bill, by permission of the president: This is in accordance with the regulations of the joint EEA committee in other ways than the import of raw meat and raw eggs based on Article 10. track No. 25/1993, for animal diseases, and for animal protection, preferably and not taken away. The bill was adopted at the General Assembly of December 18, 2009, and since then the license team has remained the same. This accorded the General Assembly to confirm the European Commission's joint decision on the implementation of EU Food legislation and the implementation of the law on March 1, 2010, the above - noted 18 month adaptation of the European government to the European Union's food legislation. On November 1, 2011, food law was fully valid in Iceland. In 2011, the Association of Trade and Serviceved a complaint to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, ESA, which made a complaint about the import of unfavourable meat. The Force to ban Iceland's obligations to the EEA Convention. After a formal letter writing with the EFTA monitoring agency on account of the case, the Agency concluded that the European Union had violated its commitments under the EEA Convention. In 2014 the company appealed to the French meat products ehf. Courts against the Icelandic State before the European Court. In the case of the matter, the County Court requested a reply from the EFTA Court. In the opinion of the Court it was stated that Icelandic legislation is not in harmony with the requirements of the EEA Convention. The Court's decision to the city of Reykjavík was in accordance with the EFTA Court, and in the judgment of the county court it concluded that it was a critical and serious violation of government contracts. The Icelandic State was doomed to pay the Fern meat products ehf. damage. After the hearing of the Court's decision, the ESA continued to refer to the EFTA Court. On November 14, 2017, the EFTA court's sentence was held, and the Court decided that Iceland had violated commitments according to the EEA Convention. Less than a year after the judgment of the EFTA Court was passed on, the Supreme Court of Iceland confirmed the decision of the County Court of Reykjavík. So the Supreme Court concluded that the license system related to the import of meat and eggs and the demand for cryo-conservation of meat was against Iceland's commitment under the EEA Convention at which time the damage to the Icelandic government was established. During the five months that have passed since the U.S. Supreme Court's death, an attempt has been made to import unhindered meat rejected by the Food Institute has been made in accordance with current legislation. In view of the similarities between the above cases and the above, a federal attorney has considered this to be the only way to end matters in terms of reconciliation and payment. During the same legal situation, there are other cases that can be assumed to result in damages to any person who is trying to move to the land of unfertilized meat products. Therefore, in this regard it should be maintained that there are no limits to the amount of damage done. Finally, the situation today is in the process of sending EFTA to the Watch Tower Society on February 13. A brief opinion of the government of the United States of England. It shows that the ESA can deliver the case to the EFTA Court if the government does not respond to the assessment by April 13th, i.e. In less than two weeks. A respectable president. Since December 2017, the Icelandic government has prepared measures to deal with present - day judgments, including those in the United States. will discuss the issues with the EU's ESA and the European Commission. In February it. owned by the highest. Foreign Minister of Iceland meeting with the European Union's Secretary of State Federicu Mogherini. Her case stated that the EFTA Court pronounced a sentence in the case that Iceland should be held to by altering its legislation. Last week I had a meeting with Andriukaitis, the European Commission of Health and Food. At that meeting, I realized the bill I now recommend and the strategy proposed, including The requirement that imported poultry meet the same requirements as that of domestic production over the last two decades. Then I referred to the meeting that the disease status of Iceland's livestock stocks was particularly good in comparison with other countries and explained the campaign by the United States to reduce the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria in Iceland, which began in February. Finally, Andriukaitis and I agreed to support the cooperation of Iceland and the European Union regarding actions against both Campylobacter and antibiotic resistant bacteria. A respectable president. The goal of the bill is clear. The Icelandic government is going to keep an international commitment that Iceland has undergone, thus ensuring the state of the country on the inner market of the EEA. In this way the Icelandic government is also respecting and applying the clear judgment of the Iceland Supreme Court and the EFTA Court. At the same time, the safety and safety of livestock stocks are further trusted, as well as the measures taken to improve the competitiveness of domestic food production. The bill suggests a change in three layers of law, and it is appropriate to consider some of the major changes. It is suggested that the current license system for meat and eggs be removed. As I've retraced here today, the outlet system is needed to address the U.S. Supreme Court and the EFTA Court's Supreme Court. However, I note that using the bill there is no change in the import of the specified agricultural products outside the EEA. The requirement for cryoconservation of meat has two outstanding advantages. On the one hand, the 30 - day waiting period may be a protection against the spread of disease or disease - infected products to this country, but it is not known what has been happening here in the last few decades where this delay has been significant. Nevertheless, the bill fails with certain actions. However, cryoprecipitation in poultry is reduced but has little effect on other pathogens or antibiotic resistant bacteria. This point should be considered in more detail, for it is the greatest challenge we have ever faced in the preparation of this matter. Iceland has the envying position that the frequency of Campylobacter infections is the lowest in Europe. This is because we have a very effective monitoring of domestic production of poultry. The Icelandic government has the means to establish a national law on Campylobacter where national legislation in the EU does not exist. The reference to this is provided in the bill to include laws on food that require the prohibition on the distribution of untreated poultry slaughter products in the market unless it is demonstrated against public surveillance that there is evidence of exposure to fire time or slaughter that the birds have not been identified by the Campylobacter. According to the bill, this Regulation shall further define the procedure in the understanding of the procedure. This provision will increase Iceland's strong standings when it comes to protecting against Campylobacter infections. Thus, the message is clear, the Icelandic government is going to carry these necessary changes to protect Iceland's strong position when it comes to protection against Kampylobacter infections. The bill adds a law on food, allowing the Food Agency and the Health Committee for Communicators to lay administrative tickets on food companies that violate the above - specified ban on the distribution of poultry. The legalisation of the provision will highlight the responsibility of food companies to ensure that food provided is safe and meet the requirements for protection against Campylobacter. The directive points to the views that public surveillance should provide the basis for the decision on the stress of fines. The bill is further suggested to add a law on food which allows Ministers to hide Food Institutes for the implementation of food production at the source of the Agency's proposal. These demonstrations are funded by the state fund based on the assessment plan of the Food Organization and have members of the Clinics responsible for retailed retails end up with a competent authority at 1 mg. Twenty-two. fix food. In addition, the bill has an adjustment in regulations 27 and 27. provide food for which the current provisions are stricter than the corresponding regulations No. 89/662. According to current food laws, immediate examinations and demonstrations are only allowed if the evidence exists that food is healthy or incompetent for consumption or can cause animal diseases. In view of the directive's contents, the directive is amended to ensure that the Food Organization can monitor in both of these situations, but not only in case of suspicion. It is an important factor in ensuring the safety of food distributed in this country. Finally, I'd like to mention that with the bill it is added to the Food and Feed Control Act, Products and Sowing Permissions for Ministers to refer to the foreign introduction of Regulations to the implementation of EU regulations taken up in the EEA Convention using a simple language treatment. The changes are aimed at ensuring that the EU types will be established in the country at the specified time when they will not be able to be translated in time. This will put in place a Regulation where the publication of the EU type is referred to in English but when the translation is prepared a new Regulation where this translation is published in the annex and older Regulation. This ensures that third state import rules are updated in time to prevent the import of products that are not considered safe. A respectable president. If this bill is legal, it will have little but a positive effect on the survival of a government fund, as is further explained by the bill. In that case, the Ministry asked for it at Daði Kristófersson, a professor of economics at the University of Iceland, that he was working on a panel on the economic impact of the bill. It concluded that taking into account the current marketing stock import and development of the following years, the specific demand for domestic production and localised frozen meat products, it seems unlikely that the proposed changes will have major consequences for domestic production beyond what may be expected from the trend in the coming years. In particular, it seems unlikely that high levels of contracture will be sold in the quantity of domestic production if fresh products are reduced following the adjustment. He will then conclude that if the bill becomes the law, the total recession will be in the income of domestic agricultural products will be between five and six thousand million. K. every year during the period of adjustment to the new state of the market. The consumer's assessment of the bill is considerable, less than 900 million. K. every year, in the opinion of Daði Már. In this regard, he refers to the experience of lifting the import limit when customs were dropped on tomatoes, pickles, and peppers in 2002. The Marketing Authorisation of the national manufacturers drew together for a short time while there was a reversal in the production of garden farmers. Over a decade or more, the production of these species grew by 60% while the growth of other species was only 5%. The increase was most important because Icelandic producers were able to create a competitive front for imported vegetables because of the better meaning of the origin of domestic production. According to Daði Már, this suggests that there is a considerable specific demand for consumers amongst Icelandic consumers according to the product characteristics that it is produced here in the country. Similar results are found in other studies, e.g. From Norway. From the beginning of the work presented in this bill and the above action program, it has been clear that this issue is not merely a matter of enforcing a court decision. This is not the case with simple legal matters. The largest part of the work I have done here has been the shape of a vast operation program that goes as far as to further ensure the safety of food and livestock stocks as possible, as well as the competitiveness of the manufacturers. In conjunction with the contributions of this case, the agreed Action Programme is put forward, which contains 15 actions. Some of them turn directly to the decommissionment system, while others are generally meant to contribute to the goals mentioned earlier. I don't think it's necessary to trace all the operations on a long matter, but part of them is to be explained. The first part of the three programme of action turns to public health and protection of livestock stocks. It is, in fact, there. Finding measures are subject to salmonella and so - called extra insurance. On July 4, 2018, the Ministry requested that they get additional insurance from chicken and turkey meat and eggs. This request was accepted at the beginning of this year and is therefore permitted by the Icelandic government to require proof of demonstration and study of salmonella with each shipment of the above mentioned products. When it comes to wishing that Iceland has additional insurance for pork and beef, such as Norway, Finland, and Sweden, they already have. At my meeting with ESA last week, I was aware of this job, which is more important to the Ministry. At the same time, this first section of the Action Programme explains the steps of the Campylobacter shown in the bill, and I stopped earlier in my speech. It will also be set up by a Risk Management Board, which is recommended in the laws on food and monitoring for food, cream, and seed products. The role of the Committee is to provide and oversee the implementation of scientific risk assessment of food, food, food, food, food, food production, and seed products. A discussion of cryoprecipitation has shown concern associated with antibiotic resistance. As a result, the Ministry has sought counseling from both a chief animal doctor and a pathologist. If they believe that the cryo-definition will have little impact on animal diseases in this country and the counter-requisite measures outlined in the Action Programme will reduce the risk. It does not matter whether meat is fresh or frozen when it comes to antibiotic resistance. Therefore, discontinuation of the cryoprecipitation will not affect the level of antibiotic resistance in this country alone. In 2017 a service group returned to the highest level. Healthcare secretary's order to protect against the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria in Iceland. February 8th. We signed the highest. A statement by the health minister that the suggestions of the group will determine the official policy of the government of this class. Immediately after the declaration was signed, a control team was appointed by the head of an animal doctor, a psychiatrist, and a representative of the Department of Professional Road and Development. The role of the group is to enforce government policy in the media, and this work is part of the above - mentioned operation. The second part of the plan focuses on increasing education. A food management agency is now preparing a presentation and education programme for tourists on import products from the animal kingdom, which have been funded. It is thought that disease causes are transported to the country by the food and clothing of tourists. This danger is immediate, and it is important that passengers in the country receive instruction on the good health and sensitivity of local farms to new infections. Thus, people who come here, from Iceland or from foreign tourists, need to be warned about food and clothing, as is well known in countries with similar emphasis in this regard. The third and final part of the programme face an improved competitive status of domestic food production, and there are six measures. First, consider the plan to set up a food fund with emphasis on the growth of innovation in domestic food production. Second, in February 2018, I appointed a team to shape the commercialism of public food groups. Presumptuously, such a course was published in government consultations last week. Third, consider the date of February 1. was signed for participation in the campaign for better food markings. The parties of the agreement are the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, Iceland's Farmer Association, the Neighbours Association, the Trade and Service Organization, the Favour of Professionals and Industrial Organization. The aim of the campaign is to provide better information on the origin, production, drug use and the environmental effects of food by consumers. The role of the group is to provide planning and oversight of initiatives on the meaning and how to inform consumers and companies about rights and duties in a clear and simple way according to international commitment. Fourth, I'd like to mention that we're working on a food policy for Iceland. Finally, there were two additional measures, as suggested by government consultations. One source suggested that there is no insurance fund available to farmers because of the possible harm to livestock. In this context, it is appropriate to refer to the advice given to the head of an animal doctor and to the Ministry for Disease Control, to refer to the Ministry's Action Programme as the above - diagnosed specialists that there will be little impact on animal disease in this country and that the action will reduce the risk. In spite of this, the Ministry intends to consider whether there are grounds for such a fund to be placed on. However, there was indications in consultation procedures that it is important to review customs protection. In this regard the Ministry intends to investigate the development of protection. A respectable president. There have been some discussions on the effect of changes made by the bill on food safety and the protection of farm stocks. The discussion was in chapters, allowing me to say, not particularly moderate, and to go through many parts of the world. So I stressed the need to seek advice from independent experts regarding the changes presented in the bill, and that has been done. Thus, the Ministry has consulted a number of national and foreign experts, including ... anecologist and a pathologist. Their advice was to help protect farms and food safety, but I believe it would be right to break their conclusions in short terms. For food safety this review can be divided into three categories, i.e. Salmonella, antibiotic-resistant bacteria and Campylobacter. In terms of Salmonella, head animal doctors and psychiatrists have concluded that additional insurance for chicken and turkey meat and eggs will maintain safety in Salmonella. However, no conclusion can be drawn on whether there is an increased risk due to porcine, bull, and duck meat, which does not provide adequate information in this country. Secondly, about antibiotic resistant bacteria, it can be referred to what I earlier took place in my talk, i.e. does not make any difference whether meat is fresh or frozen in relation to antibiotic resistance and therefore does not think that cryoprecipitation will affect the level of antibiotic resistance in this country alone. Finally, in the case of Campylobacter, the conclusion of a chief animal surgeon and a disinfectant is that by maintaining national production and by maintaining foreign production production of poultry lumen is the same as that in this country for two decades, there may be no evidence that there will be a change in Campylobacter transmission in people from poultry. In terms of the protection of livestock stocks, the conclusion of a head animal surgeon and a sepsis is that freezing of the frozen family will have little impact on animal diseases in this country, and the counter measures will reduce the risk. The conclusion, in fact, is in line with the review of Iceland's Animal Medical Association, which shows that it is negligible, if any, risk of fresh meat against the frozen that has already been introduced. A respectable president. Today, nearly 14 years have passed since the European Union's European government decided to start a discussion on the possible production of food laws. It's been ten years, a decade, since the Council confirmed the commitment to implement the food law and eliminate the former licence systems. The conclusion of the court is clear; the government has failed to fulfill its commitments. They are said to be deliberate and serious. The situation today is an unlimited damage to the Icelandic government because of its import of non-precarious meat. This means that anyone who tries to import unhealed meat and is stopped can get damages from the Icelandic state, but the amount of damages is limited. However, there are consequences at the EEA Co-operation site, but Iceland needs to respond to ESA's logical opinion by April 13 and refer further to a report on the potential consequences of this event. The bill presented here has the main objective of stopping these fragments but at the same time ensuring the safety of food, protection of livestock stocks, and improving the competitiveness of domestic food production. At the same time, we will increase the product selection of Icelandic consumers and rely on them to make an informed decision about their purchases. Instead of setting up obstacles and walls, we install natural, legitimate, and reliable defenses. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the series that follows the bill, which contains a detailed discussion on its subject. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u46	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this passage. It is clear that we are forced in agreement with the European Union's rule of order. This is a big deal that can have serious consequences for our livestock and our clean agriculture as well as for the public health of the country. When it comes to Icelandic livestock stocks, our unique status is unconvinced. They have been isolated in our good country for centuries and have never been in contact with the infectious materials of many farms endemic in Europe and beyond. The reasoning is certainly on our side. It must be said, as it is, that it is natural that we are now in that position. I believe that governments have not clearly established the importance of our uniqueness. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister for this operation plan he has presented here and is in 12 teams. There is no discussion in this operation plan on harmonization. If that were to happen, many fear, that some of these infectious diseases that have never been brought to the land would come to this land. Those of us here and those in support of this matter are likely to be responsible. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: If it comes to the spread of infectious diseases that have never been brought to this land, who will bring about a damage to farmers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First of all, I'd like to say that there is no one who forces the government to coordinate his regulations. The commitments we are dealing with here were made without any force on the European Union. It was the government that decided to negotiate with the European Union under one condition that living animals would not be transferred to the country. Other measures involved the free transport of agricultural products and other such factors. This is primarily the commitment we are confirming here, because this contract was introduced into the country's law in 2009. Protocol No. 89/662 was adopted by the joint EEA committee in 2007 with an 18-month lead-in period. It was legalized with the approval of the Generals in 2009. Since then, Iceland has enjoyed all the benefits of this agreement, but the agreement's wishes have not been fully established. That's where the judgments go. So nobody forces us to do this. Admittedly, there is great speciality. But I point out my fear or concern - why. A senator for Icelandic livestock stocks, which I certainly share with him, that it is our assessment of the finest people, our experts in this field, that the risk of infection in livestock stocks is that there is no one. We're in the same position. That's why we're importing something called raw meat. It's just frozen. 4,000 tons in 2017. The main issue is to lift what is called the freezer duty and stick to the commitments we brought into law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u48	Mr. President. I have to ask the highest. Minister to answer the question. He did not answer her. I'm going to ask him to answer the question next time. Who will bring about damage to farmers if that happens - which can happen - to bring in cattle disease, livestock diseases that have never occurred to this country? There must be serious consequences, and someone must answer for them. I'm going to pray to the highest. A minister to answer: Will a government fund cause damage to farmers if this happens? It'd be nice to get it out. Then I just want to introduce what a minister has mentioned, that there will be the same requirements for import. Then I'd like to ask him about the import of eggs. The import of farm eggs is the requirement that there be isolation for 26 days. How does this look at the egg producers, the chicken producers, when it comes to changing the law in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u49	A respectable president. To answer the egg question first, I remember that it is only assumed for the rest of the operation in that regard. In terms of improvements due to diseases that may arise, I'd like to first stress the evaluation of our people, our service to these matters, that we are not adding to the danger by cutting it off. I just want it to be stressed. So far, government funds have been a source of benefits that may fall because of laws that violate or have consequences. In this regard, there has been discussions that we do not have a comparable insurance reserve for farmers, such as they offer in the European Economic Area. In a paper with the bill, we say that we are going to examine the possibility of filming and forming such a fund. That's what we're going to do. We're going to take a real look. However, unchanged if it is possible to account for some setbacks to the council's legislation, it is obvious that it is a government fund that carries such factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance and excellent speech. It's clear, as shown in the case of the highest. Minister, that we need to respond to the Supreme Court and the errors that have followed us. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In view of the removal of the frozen meat prescribed in the bill, the import of fresh meat is expected to increase. First, I would like to ask a minister to ask if he or she has been evaluated for the import rate. Also whether this was assessed in light, i.e. In light of an increase in consumption, whether the potential for antibiotic resistance will therefore increase, i.e. due to an increase in consumption. Then there are other opportunities to eat the products because we know that a certain threshold is for many consumers to eat frozen meat. It is some sort of moor, let's say, that the unfried meat is much better than frozen. But I'm fine with that. However, consumption is expected to increase. So the questions are: Has the level of consumption been evaluated? Has it been evaluated whether this increase in consumption will affect the frequency or probability of antibiotic resistance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The answer to this is that we have no information about this. A rich diet, both of which, from Daði-Kristófersson-Monda-Montópherson, worked on his own terms, and also made a significant change in consumption by the National Association. It is inevitable to think that these will follow some changes. I think I must be, but there doesn't necessarily have to be a match between the fact that it's gonna be a clean addition to an existing consumption. It may be that in some particular meat product that would be introduced unhesitated, sales may be dragged into frozen materials. The fact is, the Icelandic meat market is such that about one quarter of Icelandic meat markets, in bull, in pig, and in poultry, about 25% is the marketed meat. In spite of this controversial tax agreement, which went into force on May 1, 2018, the import of 2017 and 2018 gathered. Trying to predict changes in this market is not easy, and people are somehow trying to get close to it. We can draw experience, as I was able to discuss in my earlier talk, from what the gardener went through. To me, it is undisputed that all such changes will be struck down in some way, and we need to make an effort to cope with them in a way that is built up and upbuilding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That way at the end, a minister only introduced what I was going to ask about the next time, i.e. Whether or not there are plans to deal with this and how to deal with it. I was looking for quickly before I arrived on the platform to see if there was much to say about parasites. There is something about them, but the same problem is that with increased consumption, the risk of parasitic infestation is expected to increase, but there are almost no parasitic diseases caused by the consumption of meat products in Iceland. It would be interesting to know if there are any plans to deal with the possible changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u53	A respectable president. Yes, once again, I just refer to what these experts are giving us, who came to our work on the bill, a psychiatrist and the office and the office of a chief animal surgeon. It is evil to estimate what we do not know, and we see an excellent example of this, for example. For the antibacterial resistance discussion, we look ahead to the publication of the Food Organization. Two weeks ago, we had discussed Icelandic food and livestock as a means of free antibiotics, which is so not. What we do not know, we cannot react to it. We are building defenses in different ways. We have every reason to believe that the Agency can build up on this and on its resources for cooperation, as well as for the European Union to support our most effective defenses in any area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A seafaring and agricultural minister for his history here. The point is, we must ask, because the community has certain doubts about our doing what is right. But, yes, the Supreme Court, the District Court, the EFTA Court--all of us have stepped forward and told us that if we are going to participate in this with the big ones, and we are going to face terms, let alone when we make deals with them, there is no other choice than to be signed. This does not change the fact that we have heard things. I would like to refer to what is being published now, February 27, by these specialists at Food Institute, that in a joint report from the European Food Security Agency, ESA, and Europe's CDC, ECDC, which was published today in February, increased bacterial resistance between animals and humans such as Salmonella and Kampoylbakter, and all of this has been observed. We know that the doubt must be ours. We must look to the future as to what we are doing. We have a special position, we have a clean product. Are we taking unnecessary risks, and what are they capable of these so - called experts in the government system? A minister will be so worded about and referred to? How much more should they know than other disease - care professionals and other experts who present a whole different story and a different view? It might be at some point just that we actually invite all these European countries to cultivate clean, decent meat for them. V.E.G. Minister, what do we know? How can we handle this as a fact that it is possible that the public health issues of the country could determine something when we are negotiating with the European Union on these issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I suppose the highest. A government that worked in these matters from 2000 to 1506 years ago had a high regard for and trust in human health, and if it is, on evidence, that humans are trying to build up our position in various fields, according to the knowledge already existing in the case at that time. When 2005 discussed additional insurance on salmonella, even though we have not had it until January of 2019 C.E. In the same way, we haven't had, what to say, a complete enough information about our position, as well as this information I mentioned as a Food Institute was putting on antibiotic resistant bacteria that come with our livestock stocks. However, our housing diseases are at a very different level from those in Europe. We have only just about 20 livestock diseases that fight our livestock, which are in the second hundred, 120 or more, in Europe. This is a situation we're going to defend. I want to emphasize here that the consumption of agrienvironmental products is essentially a problem. People's doubts about their wholesome health, taking into account some type of infection - can be tried to defend themselves by treating them with soap or fry. I know some people like the meat a little raw. I'm not in that place myself, but I'd rather be cookin'.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Seafood and agricultural ministers for the answer. We know some of the ways in which he wants his food, and we realize that he is not on his way to be weighed. This does not alter the fact that what we see now, from animal diseases and other specialities in which we are in, is where we stand against multi-drug resistant antibiotics, and I think that the country in general wondered about that. It is a serious matter when we know that most of the meat brought here has occurred during the growth of an animal of which it is completely filled with antibiotics to prevent all types of disease and infection during its lifetime. This is known, this is known. There is no uncertainty, this will be considered one of the most serious health problems we will face over the next few decades. It's just a question of when it's gonna knock us out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u57	A respectable president. It may well be that at some point you become what is called a road; you should never rule out anything in your life. In connection with such anxiety. A senator is resistant to antibiotics, and other things about the body I say: That's why we're dealing with the situation. This is the first government policy, ten teams. She's working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u58	So they don't give any antibiotics out there anymore?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u59	We're making decisions for Iceland, Icelandic consumers, Icelandic farmers, for the Icelandic government on our own business. We have no control over the European Union, nor do we care about having it. We, however, need to build ourselves up, resort to the reaction we are able to react. That's what we're doing, the current government. I mentioned in my background that we have already arranged policy measures, me and the highest. Minister of health, in this area as severe as possible. A senator is so worried about, for good reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u60	Mr. President. This is certainly a very serious situation, which is why we are here today. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for very careful history and refer to the 12 joint action programme he has presented. There is a factor that is very important and is expected to be legalized in Article 3. the bill that's already in place and that's the point I'd like to ask the Minister a little bit. I'm informed that we're not screened for a Campylobacter, so you don't take that in your mouth, in your chicken farm, and in your slaughter in Europe. Has a minister checked, e.g. by obtaining a legal opinion, whether or not that which is spoken of, i.e. that it is forbidden to distribute poultry food unless it is established that a Campylobacter, which is expected to include some kind of certificate, could potentially be a violation of a contract like the cryo-deplicant, as it also included a certificate of proof?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't think it's part of Iceland. We're not banning the import. On the other hand, we are setting conditions for the spread of food on the Icelandic market. We set the rules there, when a backup is inside our borders. We are not building defenses on the border, as the freeze duty did. It is true that this is not being screened for. We have the procedure to screen for fire groups before they go to slaughter, and then they scan again for slaughter, etc., there are rules. This is the Icelandic method. We do, however, require market proof prior to the distribution of goods. It's a rule I believe to be, and it's very firm in my opinion. I've introduced both of these to the European Commission and the European Commission and to the ESA and informed how we're going to do it. I simply trust that we are meeting for the rule given here because the greatest threat and, in fact, the only change we're making is the risk of being infected with camylobacter by domestic fowl. The way in which this is set is to walled for that danger. She is to be held as she has been to the Icelandic product of poultry meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and for providing insight into a type of background of this law in Article 3. and how they think. That's very informative. I want to say something for the best. Ministers state that there will be no shortage, at least not on my part, supporting measures that have fallen to promote food security, provide protection of livestock stocks, and improve the competitive status of domestic food production. I'm gonna let me ask you the highest. Ministerial follow up on what plans are there for the monitoring under those circumstances. Is it expected that this will be committed to a particular institution, or is it expected for a new institution? In any case, is the work financed, or is it just understood that financial matters have not been discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u63	A respectable president. Thanks for the support of the main issues. A senator mentioned. We simply share that view, for the person standing here has no intention of weakening our position in that area, not in any way, and thus has the situation. take this time into practice. In addition, there is the problem. The senator mentioned earlier regarding the proof that the enterprises that have been present in those cases do not make any comment to the procedure suggested in the bill, in the context of this puzzle, no one has made any comments so that they see it as normal. However, regarding the treatment and the systematic part, it is simply assumed that this will be comparable and go through the same sequences as the certificate's requirement for the Icelandic production. This ends with the release of the food clinic or by someone on it. For a discussion of financing, the procedures we have been given are financed and expected in financial terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u64	Madam President. A bill with the bill shows that it is being prepared and referred to the Court's Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and EFTA, which in short means that the Icelandic government has violated its obligations under the EEA Convention by maintaining the current licence system for importing raw meat, eggs, and unsalvated dairy products. It was felt that the permit system could not be justified on the basis of Article 13. The EEA Convention. It is remarkable that we have not been able to keep up with this law and to recall it a bit. 13th. The contract says: verses 11 and 12. does not prevent import, import or transfer of product bans or seas justified by general morality, universal rule, public security, human health or animal health or protection, protection from national prices [...] such as such bans or seas should, however, not result in total discrimination or covert restrictions between parties. This law is very clear, and it has to be said that, as it is, it is very disappointing and unusual not to be looked at this law when it comes to this issue on the part of the European Union. It also gives you a thought and a right to mention this in connection with the so - called pack of three, now expected by the government, that the government is very pleased to know that the government has been rewarded with warnings that recognizes our special standing in those areas. We're going to see it all together, and we're going to go over it very carefully when it comes to it, but we're going to ask ourselves: " If it was so easy to get this warning about the third energy package, why couldn't this unique situation be approved in our agriculture, our farms that have been here for centuries and are very clean compared to what's going on in Europe? This gives us much thought and time to think deeply about it and to discuss it further. The agricultural sector of the EEA Convention says in Article 18. to 13. should be valid and there are no above mentioned. Scholars have concluded that it is logical to argue that the parties had the right to believe that 13. The EEA Convention would measure up to that. But in the day, this is almost interpreted out of the table for the benefit of business freedoms at the expense of housing and public health. This is an important law that will not hold, and it will certainly be important to come to the point that, as mentioned earlier, when we discuss the energy package. Madam President. I'd like to take part in the record of this bill of the National Farmer's Association. In this regard, we in the Central Party agree with the National Society. It's a very careful review of the organization but they agree with the doubts the scholars have expressed on whether the EEA is actually on equal terms with the European Union when it comes to exceptions. In that case, it is very interesting to consider Article 114. Lisbon Convention, European Union Convention. This article shows that in each Member State, since the European Parliament and the Council and the Commission have agreed on an agreement, it is unavoidable to maintain national regulations devoted to the basic needs involved in 36. it shall inform the Commission of these regulations and the reasons for maintaining them. This means that a state in the European Union can maintain specific requirements in relation to their uniqueness, despite the harmony of law set out at 114. The Lisbon Convention. This is an unambiguous right to countries in the European Union, but this does not apply when it comes to the EEA Convention. There we cannot keep our regular work, which attracts us to our unique position. This is very interesting, and I think this is a very important argument that could have been used in a discussion with the European Union that it acknowledged our uniqueness in this matter. I think it's very important to keep this up. This shows a particular doubleive on the European Union. The European Union has the right to take into account their specific status, of course, certain conditions, but it is not intended to take into account the EEA Convention. This raises questions about why the EU treaties are more aggressive than the European Union itself. Following the petition made with reference to the bill, it included a statement by the local community. ... toreport a bill to correct a change in animal diseases law and to protect them from the intention of allowing distribution of unbound dairy products. Then the Ministry issued an announcement that was repeatedly not intended in connection with the bill to make changes to the current rule of distribution of unsolved dairy products. Milk distributed to consumers should be prepared and the dairy products made from abutted milk, according to the regulations. The local community points out that what is interesting about this, and we in the Central Group agree with it, that the subject of the above - mentioned bill is blurred and the correction is unclear. According to 1 0... Current Regulation, No. 488/2012, with subsequent changes, the import of non-silent dairy products is prohibited. The legislation on this Regulation can be said to be somewhat dangerous, since the prohibition does not appear in the animal disease laws and protects against them but is under general regulations. The current position can therefore be understood in two ways, either to prevent the import of unbound dairy products as it has been or to prevent it from being done, because it has not improved. This is important. If this bill becomes legal, it will be set up in the animal disease Act on the prohibition on the import of non-alcoholic milk and milk products derived from non-EU countries, Switzerland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. It might therefore be suggested that these specific products are imported from EEA countries, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and Switzerland, respectively, and that they have a natural benefit. This would also be true, however, if the regulations of the regulations were to remain unchanged, as the law goes above the regulations that are known, and the rule is newer than the regulations in the Regulation. In addition, this is in line with the national commitments of Iceland and commitments to the EEA agreements as the EFTA Court explains, but there are strong views when it comes to explaining the Icelandic law. It is only natural, therefore, to understand the matter so that the bill suggests a modification of the rules for importing unsolved milk, despite what is stated in the announcement. The local community feels it is unusual that a minister will overlook the findings of the EFTA Court, that the import ban on this product is illegal while dealing with other results. As the EFTA Court has clearly explained the commitment of Iceland under the EEA Convention, Article 3. Regulation No. 448/2012 against them. If the regulations are canceled, no law or other regulations prohibit the import of unbound milk and dairy products for use as long as products do not go to the market. The National Research Association of Iceland has repeatedly stated that the scientific evidence of the government's appeal to local courts on the risk due to increased import of the above products has not been questioned. The position of the Icelandic agricultural industry to compete with foreign production cannot be considered equal to that of the article having unique advantages that can easily be lost. Experts have noted that the reduction of the import restrictions, such as the freezing family, will translate into a significant increased risk in various areas for human and animal health. Feed infections increase and there is an increased risk of transmission of resistant bacteria to antibiotics. No other European nation is screened as well for Campylobacter, since Iceland's effectiveness in fighting is very good and is, in fact, jealous, but infections caused by bacteria are common food infections in Europe. Infections caused by antibiotics resistant bacteria are considered one of the most serious health problems in the world today, and these are strongly associated with agricultural antibiotic use. Based on European Medicines Agency data from 2015, the use of antibiotic in agriculture in Europe is up to 88 times higher where it is highest than in this country. It is unmistakably true that domestic livestock stocks have lived under long isolation and have never been exposed to the spreads of many farms endemic in Europe and elsewhere. In this case, it is likely that there will be significant consequences to the spread of infection, and it will not have access to any insurance fund due to the damage done to livestock diseases in the EU, except subsidies due to cutbacks in sheep. The wealth of the government would have to repair such damage to the farmers, and it was expressed in opposition to the highest degree. Minister before. In the 5th and 6th. The bill stipulates that a minister is authorized to hide the Food Organization from performing a sample; the Agency is permitted a quick inspection, demonstrations, etc. The Regulation, in the opinion of the local community, must be made aware of the need for funding to carry out the necessary monitoring, monitoring, and sampling. It has been noted earlier that this is a major project that was unfounded as to how to finance a financial budget. This is now one of the most important reasons for this action programme that is set out in this bill. It will be clear how this will be financed and how this surveillance will be handled. In Comb 4. The bill is suggested that the standards for slaughtering products of birds distributed in the marketed market are those of a flock of birds where firetime testing has been confirmed that a Campylobacter has not been identified, added to 8 g. a on food laws. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I have much more to offer in this discussion than to see that time is over. I hereby wish for my reinstatement to continue my discussion on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u65	Madam President. I would like to begin my talk by reviewing that in 1947, a local agricultural minister published a large report on the consequences of bringing in Karakulé, which was at the time one of the decisions made by the Council to promote the Icelandic agriculture. And why, as a respected president, do I start the talk by reviewing it? Yes, it is because the consequences of that import were disastrous. This was not the place to be thrown to the hands. It was a bitter experience trying to import live funds in order to protect against animal diseases. The sexual reforms brought in had perfect certificates, but the consequences of this import were disastrous. They were almost so serious - or nothing almost, they were serious - that they had to change the budget. Farmers were killed in the provinces. There was a transfer between parts of the country. Happily, we had isolated provinces that had clean strains to rebuild the flocks of sheep at that time. I'd like to start by reviewing this because we'll be every step we take in these matters to be especially careful. I'm not about to announce a crash of agriculture or a disaster of the way it was, but let's be completely aware that the slightest mistake in this can be very serious. We have this unique position as the highest. A minister here used his detailed enforcing speech, which I would like to thank him for, as to what our special standing is with what we have few livestock diseases. We have farms here in the country that are in the facility that there are diseases available here and that are not considered serious in other countries. As such, e.g. In recent years, there was infection that caused much damage in Icelandic horse culture. It was not even considered a dangerous disease, since it was endemic in the mainland. These are all the things that we need to look at when we make such changes that this law - based bill - so that it can go well. I believe, more dignified President, that we are in this position because we have not necessarily made good use of the opportunities that the EEA Convention has made, and the agreement we made with the European Union in 2005 on the recording of food law, to the highest degree. In its history, a minister ran about for the export of seafood. I believe that after the Council rejected this element, which in 2007 and 2008 did not contain a twofold freeze duty, it was a reason for the Icelandic government to go to the European Union and try to understand that it would not be willing for the changes proposed here. But the big opportunity to understand this special situation in Iceland was after we handled the food law in 2009, if I recall correctly, a respectable president. Because then we had time to establish the defenses that did not. It wasn't done. I read about it in a fine article that the former agricultural minister then presented this case wrote in the Farmer magazine not long ago that he was planning to go for protection, but he did not have time or waste to do so. I'm not going to trace the reasons for it. But this is what I think is two main points of time when we did not take them in defense of what we are now facing - because we have been judged and judged. That is why I especially welcome the additional activity at the highest level. Agricultural minister here presents this adjustment. A course of 12 joints. I'd like to say, a respectable president, that for a long time I haven't seen so much success in trying to punch a armored city around this position and over the interests of agricultural production and the highest interests. A minister will do by his actions. I hope and so direct to what. The job committee when she gets the case to treat her now, both at the highest level. A minister and with those who come to give the commission in their work, putting this pack of measures in mind to make it the means to make it the additional protection we need. I believe that's the only realistic way. Anything else that is claimed to be possible is in my mind wishful thinking. And we don't need wishful thinking anymore. We need real action. I'm not going to blame the agricultural minister who was standing here on staff in 2005 and the government that was then and who only received an exception to the import of living animals, because we had a very clear position. There we had very sad experiences, as I traced at the beginning of our talk, and that was really what gave us the basis for our access to living animals, the knowledge and the analysis of Icelandic livestock. I'm surprised when I'm listening to the highest. Agrienvironmental minister I've done at some publicity meetings on this bill says he's got accepted added insurance on the saladella because of the chicken farm, but that it wasn't obtained from pig farms or from beef production. I'm surprised because I thought there was a sample and research in this field that was so much better than it seems. And there we may again find the basis for what we may be in - or are in - nothing, perhaps. The foundation is that we are not based on sufficient research and knowledge in order to defend our position. Sadly, this is the cold fact, and we are left with the harm. I also say this to try to sharpen further that the actions proclaimed by this bill must be made so that it is worth the effort to guide them into law and that they are not shot down the day after they are approved. Let us prepare for them and put them under the microscopes and try to drill them. In all this discussion, it will not be avoided to mention this, as there is often another general debate about Icelandic agriculture, that it is one of the insulation and old age and systematicly, that we have in Iceland one of the world's most liberal agricultural policies. This can be reasoned in a number of ways. Yet, that conclusion remains. Therefore, it is particularly important that we keep our eyes on what creates the real environment for the Icelandic agriculture and take along with these changes in where we can improve it. It's, for example. can be named the famous toll protection, which is the second main theme of agrienvironmental policy next to Icelandic market agreements. The toll protection prepared in international treaties since 1990 has been allowed to burn on the altar of inflation for a very long time. It is so widely arranged that she has stopped giving the protection she had in mind to do. I'm particularly worried about her as a result of the changes this bill leads to the state of beef here on the market. I'm also pointing to what I'm doing. Business committees should discuss this in particular, if they have the means to detect that position. So we try to draw together what I think will be the main function of the council in the management of this bill, I think it is the agricultural operating position. And I'm calling for it. I think that's the only real answer to these changes, that we need to accept the real business position or real environment that the agricultural products are currently in after we have walked as far as we are concerned and that we are to face contracts that in everyday terms are called toll agreements. To tell you the truth, I don't like the way I sleep with the executives of Iceland, who are, well, Icelandic farmers. That they are not more involved in moving ahead for economy and cooperation in the sector than they are. I don't think so, because the reality is this, and the highest. A minister did a fine job in his advance talk, how much the livestock market has become, that these companies are in a fierce competition with companies in a much larger market. Whether we like it or not, we are at the big market with the Icelandic agricultural product. And whether the company's name is the Southern Fight Company or the Nuclear Food or the Norwegian or the Kospering Company, yes, it's a big, sexy business, and a magnificent, well-being, here at home in Iceland - but in the context of the big company they're going to compete with, they're very aggressive. And now you're all right with cancer. But their strength must be through searching for ways of putting their trust in them either by looking for a source to increase the workforce, which I certainly do not feel is not excluded by the current law and where there is no need for a special adjustment to do so, or by closer cooperation or cohesion. I think that's the only realistic answer - in addition to the highest. A minister has mentioned in his programme of action, taking better than ever around the Icelandic domestic product and lifting it up, facing the Icelandic consumers with good meanings, known as consumers. We've got a lot to do. Because if there's something I haven't feared in this case, it's the mind of Icelandic consumers. It is the strong and rich will of Icelandic consumers to know the source of the food they buy. It's rude to try to conceal the origin of the product from Icelandic consumers. This has led to one of the main costs and to inform consumers about the price they want to buy. Therefore, we should set the goal high in this future work, not letting down our dough, and taking advantage of opportunities now to be discussed. Open the door for us. Because I notice that when polling on how to view this case, the more part responds to the fact that it is not paid to relax more on import, to protect against imported goods. I think there's a certain message we should be taking seriously. But what wasn't for 2005 when the Icelandic government underwent these terms, to adopt the food law, and what has grown since then, is the debate on antibiotic resistance. That situation did not exist in 2005. But this discussion is growing rapidly now. A fine frontnote address could well be cited. Minister to take the discussion well. I especially welcome what he said in his talk about his dealings with the Commission, that there is an understanding of this position and an understanding of our amazing achievements, especially the Icelandic national manufacturers, in the battle against the Campobakter. I'm not having a pessimism to deal with this matter in a way that can result in improvement. I want toward the end of this speech to say, most respected president, that for a long time I have not seen as objectively ignored the interests of which we are most in this hall ready to go and defend, which are the interests of Iceland and Icelandic agriculture for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u66	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good speech, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, especially the first part of his speech, was very good, where it was well. The senator discussed the time when living money was permitted and the serious consequences it had for us. This was certainly needed for a word of caution. A senator who makes us think about what could happen here will be the law of this bill. Hv. A senator mentioned that it was wishful thinking on our part that we could reach some other conclusion, i.e. has agreed with the European Union on the lack of this import or decomposition of cryopreserved grounds. I disagree. A senator in this regard, and especially in the case of some, I liked it. A senator noted that antibiotics were not available in 2005. You're absolutely right. Senator. That is a mistake during those years, our uniqueness is not being promoted. However, there is a new point here for this presentation that should indeed be stressful to the European Union - that we cannot stop this freezing duty. I want to ask you why. A senator to what appears in 114 C.E. Figure 4. Lisbon Convention, i.e. The Treaty of the European Union, which states that countries have the authority to establish special rules, such as in our case, without the need to coordinate them with Europe's regulations. Then I'll ask why. A senator: thinks so. Not that these two points, antibiotic resistance, and this point I mentioned about the 114th grade. [[The president calls.]] The Lisbon Treaty, could there be some compelling reason not to fall away from the freezing arrangement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u67	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I am glad that he loved my speech, especially the first part, so did I. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I just want to say what. paritaprevir My Birgir Þórarinsson's offer that I truly wish I could not be in this position. But materially, for the two things he asked, I just want to add to the fact that the antibiotic resistance was not in the same place during the 2005 discussion, and now that the frozen family does not in itself influence the antibiotic resistant bacteria, unless it comes to handling the products that you use in relation to other products. But there are also other factors, and they are also linked to such things as Salmonella and Campylobacter, good and responsible food treatment. So cryoprecipitation and antibiotic resistance cannot be separated. That's why I especially welcome the highest words. A minister of his history when he told of his meeting with the Commission where I know that our circumstances, due to the low rates of antibiotic resistant bacteria, drew attention. And I am optimistic about the fact that it will be possible to continue working with it. Regarding the second point, he mentioned, our authority on using special rules, one of the requirements of this bill is that we here will adopt the rules that are permitted by food law, to use the quick valves, or quick-to-be cops, to bring up serious farm diseases that we need to protect against. It's been a big argument for the freezing family. Actually, it has only given us this 30 - day extension. Actually, we have a whole different monitoring system and today we are monitoring cattle diseases. That's why the warrants and import bans are very important and that's what we're doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Now, when Finns was walking in the European Union, it was strongly emphasized that Finnish agriculture was practiced in a totally different setting than in the European Union, weather conditions, and geographic conditions. Finns went through this. But there was little interest in this in the European Union. In that case, Finnar was advised to invite representatives of the European Union, the branch office gang in the European Union, to visit Finland. When they arrived in March, everything was caught in the snow. Then they realized that Finnish farming was a very special place. So I want to ask you why. A member of the European Union and thus wonder here, reflect on it, whether it would have been normal to invite representatives of the European Union in connection with this matter to study the Icelandic agriculture and this particular area of the European economy when it comes to the use of pharmaceutical products in agriculture and the purity of agricultural institutions. I know what you're doing. A senator whether these parties came to the country, visited farmers, and discussed with them? I think it's a very important part of this discussion to learn about the situation. I am absolutely convinced that the European Union has not studied any documents at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u70	Madam President. Of course, I have no objection to the fact that these fine people are invited here to study the situation. That's why I thought that was a good thing for me at the highest level. Aggressor to go to the Commission and speak our language, speak to the interests we want to promote. To me, it was true that later the hopes were done. And as with the release of the assembly that has been called the third energy package, I feel that the Icelandic government has finally gained confidence in coming to the European Commission to tell us what would happen to Icelandic conditions. But because of him. A senator made me the pay, really, to discuss Finland's entry into the European Union, I, a respectable president, would like to share an experience I had in another job when we faced Iceland's membership attendance in the European Union. The first advice from the Finnish Farmer Association was: Never be alone in a meeting with the European Union and see in what form they put in the form of so - called Exceptions. Because Finnish farmers felt that they had taken only 114 separate requirements from the European Union and were nearly all lightly shot down like flies, since they were at first not correct and had not improved in the order of the European Union. Therefore they were swept out of the table like dead flies, and nothing remained, even those who were dead. It meant that what they thought they understood, the Finnish speciality of slaughtering reindeer in the conditions they had lived in for centuries, and that they had specially signed a magazine about power, was a minor one later found. They then had to saw the horns of the reindeer and move them to a slaughterhouse 500 miles [500 km]. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I give nothing to a respectable president, for that it can be done by some common music to attend some special release. [[The president calls.]] We must bear facts and have confidence to imitate them. That confidence has finally come to the attention of the Icelandic government. [[For example, I mentioned the facts.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u71	Madam President. We're here discussing a big, big case that's weighed on many people, but it's not possible to escape from it. We know the exception of the case regarding the judgment of the EFTA Court and then the U.S. Supreme Court. According to these judgments, frozen duty violates Iceland's commitments under the EEA Convention and we have to deal with it. This commitment was confirmed by the General Assembly in 2009, and the food law was taken up only when the freeze duty was removed. We now face the fall of judgment, and there is nothing more in the government than to respond to it. True, the effects could be serious to Icelandic agriculture, and that is, of course, what the government and all who wish to use the Icelandic agriculture have been and how to deal with it. Analysis has shown that unbound import and cryopreserved income could have a major impact on farm income. This could mean a decrease in income from farmers to over 500,600 million and even much more. That's why it's important, like the highest. Ministers have come in handy, having strong counter measures. It is where we, the government, have to work hard to support Icelandic agriculture and wholesome agricultural production that we are so proud of here in Iceland. And look to it that our agriculture has a high standard of purity, equipment, and not a lot of drug use, as mentioned. It is therefore not acceptable to compete with agriculture only on the same terms, that we make the same requirements for agrienvironmental production that might be introduced, as we do for Icelandic agricultural production. On this basis, I believe that we can be competitive, that in our strategy of action we will not be given any discount of the kind of agricultural equipment we would expect to import, that everything we expect about our agriculture will be met, and that we will have them as much as we can in that sector. My hopes are high for the plan of action that the government is going to do, and we have to follow through very hard. The defenses against Campylobacter are powerful, so other defenses need to be considered as well. It may also be considered if you do not follow the rule rules we set up. As it looks today, tickets may range from 25,000 to up to 25 million. K. and are thinking that the importer will not take any chances regarding importing meats that do not measure up to the requirements we will. We also look to public health and protection of livestock stocks and health and, especially, the environmental aspects of food production. Of course, it is important, in the context of parts of the climate, to have as environmentally friendly agriculture. That consumers consume the production achieved in their environment and that goods are not transported long distances or produced in some situations we do not know and would not accept in this country. We can also look forward to paying even those who produce the goods that we consider to be decent. All this matters. Our task ahead is to secure the position of the Icelandic agricultural sector, to look at the production of a healthy Icelandic agricultural field, and to compete for an equal base for all the factors that have been affected here. On the job board, we receive this matter to deal with, and we will do what we can to ensure an even greater level of agricultural activity on this subject. I know that governments have responded very strongly to doing so with the possible weapons and equipment. We will continue to examine whether we can further strengthen it. I know and trust that we will all unite there, people from other categories, including those of the management categories, to ensure production of Icelandic agriculture, and that it is competitively able to provide an equal basis for the exported agricultural products which could increase the import of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u72	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. As told by the Farmer Association of Iceland, it says: On February 23, 2018, the European Community proposed a letter sent to a marine economist and agricultural minister to negotiate with the European Union because of the findings of the EFTA Court from November 14, 2017, on the one hand, a request for a release from the decision was made, but to deliver a period of three to five years of adaptation. It has been observed that there have been some discussions, but there have been difficulties in accessing a number of relevant data, including conferences from the meeting of the Secretary of State and the U.S. Secretary of State, Federicu Mogherini. The organization has doubts that some serious concern for the EU has been brought up in an alleged discussion. This is very interesting. First, it is difficult to find out whether there have been discussions. There is something that really matters in all of this. I want to ask you why. A senator who is the head of a professional committee: Will she take advantage of the committee for a period of three to five years of adaptation, delay, to introduce this change in freezing duty, as the Iceland Bjording Association has emphasized?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u73	Madam President. The reality is that we already have a ten - year extension in this matter. We haven't met the food law we agreed on in 2009, and these judgments are available. I think it is only natural that we, on a professional committee, review the cases with the stewards who have discussed them and have gone to Brussels to follow these matters and see how we can protect ourselves in this matter. I can't answer for what man's been through, but I believe that men have tried to maintain Iceland's interests and then face the reality that we have to look to other things like strengthening our defenses with a plan of action broken down in the bill. There we have the same requirements for that production, origin, traceability, drug use, and all that purity as we do in Icelandic agriculture. If we set up all these defenses, I can imagine that importers, who may be very excited to be allowed to import this production from the outside, will run onto a high fence that they will not be able to cross it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u74	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's quite interesting, as a matter of course. A senator mentioned that fences would be so high that they could not be covered. For more information, see if trying to make this up is the policy of the management sector. What, then, will be the result of this regard to the European Union? Now is a very short time for this to take effect, which is September 1. In view of this action programme, and especially when it comes to screening for camylobacter, there is a major operation, and it is hardly possible to expect that all of these measures will be started in a short period of time. Counts 'em out. Does not a senator's request for an additional deadline, especially in view of the fact that it has not been long since that judgment fell, and the local community stress the continuation of the application? In view of my doubts, I don't ask the least, and it might be a good idea to get it from time to time. A senator, that these counter-important measures will all be ready for this in the autumn months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u75	Madam President. There's not a long time left in itself. We have a very powerful surveillance system today. They are screened for all possible production opportunities in Icelandic agriculture, and we have a very strong organisation, a Food Institute, and other people who closely monitor the health of Icelandic production, so I don't think it's a problem. Of course, we will call on all the experts who will discuss this matter and will act on what it says. When I spoke of the high fence that it wasn't default for everyone to move in as they wanted to of raw meat, it was a metaphor. I'm not talking about us doing things that aren't right. Today we're fragile. We have, under the Supreme Court and the judgment of EFTA, violated the law. This is reality, and those who import meat are entitled to do so. We're violating that business based on the same situation, that's the cold reality we have to deal with. I think we'll just have to check to see if we need to delay this timeline. I think that in order to win it fast and safely in the case that we can put forth and work on this action programme, which is listed to help us deal with the fact that Icelandic agriculture will compete on an equal basis and we are not importing agricultural products that are produced in a way that we do not accept according to our requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u76	President. If this case is accepted, we, the council, are creating what might be called the perfect storm for the Icelandic agriculture. The article was in a serious business situation. This is No. 1st No. 2. This article has been placed on an ever greater and constantly new channel for its fulfillment. Many of the animals and many of them are competitive when the article is competing with giants in foreign lands that do not always follow - and perhaps in most cases - the conditions to which it needs to be met. No. 3. This was made a toll agreement with the European Union, in contrast with what was indicated when the contract was introduced, very adverse in Iceland. No. 4. The government's financial plan is that there is only one class in Iceland that can expect a permanent fallout, according to government plans, for a predictable future, for the next five years, and there are farmers. Because in all other parts of the world significantly increased donations are expected to cover pay costs and other things that the State needs to produce, important roles of different classes and different projects in Iceland. In all areas except agriculture, additional donations are expected. In agriculture, stifling donations are expected. There's no. 5. What the government, as well as what seems to be the whole administrative part, expects us to accept is now opening up for raw meat, eggs, and unbound dairy products. This would not be merely the economic threat to European agriculture but the creating of a new and very significant threat to the health of Icelandic and animal society. To this matter, it is clear how little government consultations have seen as a reason to have, in order to form Iceland's Farm Association - as they complain in the opinion they have paid to the Ministry of Employment and Development. It is clear that these changes in the law can be assumed that food infections will be greatly increased and antibiotic resistant bacteria will be transmitted to the country. As noted in the local community, there has been no real disagreement on the scientific evidence to maintain a stable position in this regard. It can simply be assumed that there will be increased dissatisfaction. Which is not just a sin, it is a historical shame if it is allowed to happen. Because we have here an exceptionally wholesome food production, farms, which for some reason have been isolated for over 1,200 years and never come in contact with diseases endemic in Europe. These are not just diseases that cause major economic losses in Europe; these are also diseases that might not even be dangerous there but that would be very dangerous to our non - infected species - and just not - in the habit of dealing with such infections. Icelandic farmers would not have access to a guarantee fund to deal with this in the same way that European farmers did. Why would this policy exist? Yes, because this is a persistent problem in Europe where agriculture is run on a completely different basis than this in Iceland. To expect the Icelandic farms, as soon as the shoe squeezes, to compete on these grounds, to compete with industrial farms in foreign lands that even use antibiotics to have animals in all the other circumstances than we would think would be acceptable here - it can not be expected of this basic work of Iceland. An article that has, first of all, preserved lives in the land, but it is also a foundation built in much of the country. If it is affected by further setbacks, I do not speak of as large as this matter indicates, the damage would be so far beyond the limited number of individuals directly involved in the article, although it is now serious enough in themselves. There have been some indications of a fault in this matter, and I'm not sure that I have time to review them in my first talk. As a result, I'm going to ask the president to register me once again but to stick to what might be called the big picture in that first talk. The big picture is that it is a sovereignty case. One of these issues has to do with the general interest of the European Union in the future. One would think that under such circumstances governments would be willing to exercise themselves to the full. But they have not, as is clear in the opinion of the local community, who have been badly informed about the course of events and have doubts that to produce the highest order. A minister of state has, with a measure of force, endeavored to obtain annuity from this sentence of the EFTA Court, referred so much to. I agree with the doubts, because the messages we have received from the board of directors, and now echo in this discussion, all of us agree that we really have no choice but to give up. But this matter is of the magnitude of our lives that we cannot allow ourselves to give up. I agree with the Farmers that the normal next step is to make it clear to the European Union that we're asking - and there's strong evidence - from this sentence of the EFTA Court. During the diplomatic political discussions, we wait for the release of this case. That's at least It's obvious we can't allow ourselves to accept it. Because this is simply a great danger, whether considered to be the basis for this important work or public health in the country. As I mentioned earlier, Mrs. President, the Bavors'opinion of various flaws in the government treatment of this matter was traced to the Bavour Society. However, the answers of the management team all seem to be in the process of doing this, being held captive by some court conclusions, and otherwise by the European Union's answers. It certainly brings to mind the next issue on the agenda for this government, which is the induction of the EU third energy package. At the same time they show up here and tell us that there's just nothing to do, we've thought that there's an exception here, but the European Union just say no, they're gonna try to convince us that we can accept this third energy package because at the same time we're going to accept ourselves some form of release at a Senate resolution proposal. Of course, this would be nothing more than an expensive, respectable president if it wasn't so sad. That we're living with a government that at the same time shows up in such a fundamental interest of the nation and says: "Sorry, we thought it was an exception, but it obviously doesn't apply, says the European Union - we don't need to worry about this energy package because we're going to ask for a release. It's all in the same book, a respectable president. This case, an expansive question about this basic work and, in fact, about the national sovereignty as well, requires response accordingly. Speaking of leaveovers, it was interesting what was presented in the speech of both. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson earlier, that Finnish farmers would have felt that they had gained 114 passbacks when agreed on the entry of Finland into the European Union. Nothing would have been done with these leaveovers. Like what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said it would have been swept off the board of the European Union like dead flies. That's where I thought it was a little bit old, good old boy. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. Unfortunately, he so finished his speech to describe, apparently, perfect loyalty to the government. And it is only a matter of hearing of the talks that have been brought to this point but that in whatever group of directors they stand, there is far more to this government and to their platoon president than to Icelandic agriculture. I'll say exactly as it is, Madam President, it disappoints me. I thought that this case would put people on their feet, not just to the European Union, but to their own groups as well. Even if only in the light of previous declarations from the board of directors. But there's more to talk here today and tonight, and we'll see what's going to happen. I hope there are some who will be ready to confront their previous princes in this regard. I'm here at the end, Madam President, to quote words spoken by Henry Kissinger, who was in fact. U.S. Secretary of State. He will have said: " Those who control the food supply govern the people. ' All continents can be controlled by those who control energy. And those who control the budget control the world. We now find that Iceland's government is reaching an all-time full house. She has previously given everything to hedge funds in New York City and London, agree to their demands, including about emissions of so - called decrepits. It has introduced that there is a large part of the policy of transnational energy control over the European Environment Agency. And now she expects us to look to the European Union in the big question of life that our food production is. In fact, this government has given us amazingly time to support the food supply, to some extent the people, to the people, to the energy, and perhaps to control whole continents as determined in Europe for energy legislation there, and to the foreign capitals, which at least According to Henry Kissinger, the world is in control. This has already been received from this government and shows us, first of all, that the government is not prepared to stand up properly to protect Iceland's fundamental interests. This shows that these issues, whether the energy package or the financial system or what we're talking about today, are political issues. It is about our having power over our own destiny. And in the case of sovereignty, you must stand on your feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u77	Madam President. The issue we are discussing today is prescribed for animal disease, thus not giving much credit to the problem, but it is a bigger one. In fact, it's so big that it's not overspoken, like what's happened. The last public speaker, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, said that this is a sovereignty case. This is seen when governments have introduced a food security strategy, which is a fundamental part of a nation's life, to provide protection for farms, and it is the very foundation for agricultural production, and to improve the competitive status of domestic food production, which, of course, depends on its ability to compete with foreign rivals. That is why it is not overruled, Madam President. In the case there are reviews that may not be the least of two categories. On the one hand, those who express great doubts that this 12 - team action program is going to go far enough and then, on the other hand, it will succeed in implementing them sufficiently in the short period of time due to the fact that a core policy will take effect on September 1. That's not a long time. Operational program is in 12 teams, as previously stated, in three main chapters, i.e. on human health and protection of livestock stocks, on increased education and on improved competitiveness. It is not to say that there is any exaggeration in those who have, in view of the opinion that the time available to implement the foretold action, may be insufficient. I will now, Madam President, take hold of some reviews to discuss specific matters. Of course, it must be assumed that 2 Peter 3: 1 - 5. .., after the discussion of the committee will be very thorough, as much as this matter is, and large, and far - reaching and profound Icelandic interests. There is a very careful review of Iceland's local community, which, among other things, said that they repeatedly pointed out that the government's scientific arguments in their lawsuit to the courts on the risk due to increased import of the products discussed in this issue have not been questioned. It says in the review, with the permission of a president: ▪ The position of the Icelandic agricultural industry to compete with foreign production cannot be considered equal, and the article has a number of uniqueities that can easily be lost. Experts have noted that the reduction of the import restrictions, such as cryostasis, will mean a significant increase in risk in various aspects of human and animal health. Feed infections increase and there is an increased risk of transmission of resistant bacteria to antibiotics. I believe that it is undisputed that no other nation in Europe is as comfortable with the Campylobacter as the success of Iceland in this struggle is considered envyable, but in Europe there are infections caused by the bacteria known as the Campylobacter of the most common food infections. Of course, the whole story is not said to do so because bacteria that are not taking any bacteria, although they are injected, are resistant to antibiotics, such infections are now considered one of the most serious health problems in the world. It is noted that there is a strong association between these and agricultural antibiotic use. Data from the European Medicines Agency, 2015 data, indicate that in Europe, antibiotic use is up to 88 times higher than in this country, where it most is. So one can see the difference between the production that comes from Icelandic farming and at least Some of the lands he competes with. It is well - known that many European livestock have lived in solitary confinement. In this regard up to 1,200 years were mentioned earlier. It is also quite clear that European livestock have never been exposed to the spread of many agricultural diseases, which have long been endemic in Europe and elsewhere. If, Mrs. President, so gravely, the spread of infection is likely to occur, and it is, in fact, claimed that it could do much harm with unforeseen consequences. The report points out that in the EU, in the exception of sheep cutbacks, there is no access to any insurance fund because of the damage caused by livestock diseases. Kingdom funds, along with the farmers, need to carry such burdens. And there is nothing more to hear about the case of the minister at the beginning of this discussion than that he is largely in agreement with this statement by the Bavors Association. Furthermore, in this fine and careful reference to the local community, it is suggested that in the implementation program of the government's proposal that among the efforts to improve the competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture and for which reports are provided, a professor's report from the University of Iceland, Dald Már Kristófersson's son, from January 14, 2018, being prepared for the trade and innovations Department. It estimates that farmers' annual clean income loss due to changes the bill may make 600 billion available. K. every year, at least During the period of adjustment to the new market balance as indicated. Then there is a report on a known accounting firm and counselling company, Deloitte, worked for the Town Organization in the spring of 2018. It shows that the potential loss of Icelandic agriculture, free import of fresh meat, unbound milk, and bulging eggs may be allowed, in the course of 1,4How billion k. It is observed that the effect would be most pronounced on the production of cattle, pigs and poultry. Madam President. It's going to be a real challenge. The job committee as it deals with the bill, rolling all the rocks to determine which bits can be found in the defense strategy for 12 teams. It is also discussed in the wintertime. Committee on how practical it is that these measures can be carried out and performed prior to the execution of the law on September 1. Madam President. I am taken down here in the comments of the Landsama of Sheep, by the permission of a president: U.S.A. has an enormous value that lies in the unique health status of farms in Iceland. This fact, as well as the very small and targeted use of antimicrobial antibiotics for decades, makes agricultural production in Iceland unique when it comes to purity. Do you see the value in this regard? Do you see the value of a courtyard if you have an accident because you have health problems in Icelandic livestock that have been in isolation for 12 centuries? This risk is substantial relative to what must be concluded, at least of what some scientists say. It is noted in the comments of the Landsam of Sheep Prayer, by permission of a president: The European Court of Auditors explains how the free import of raw meat will affect this position. One thing is clear, though, that the risk is increased. It is also clear that if we lose the position we now hold on to animal health, we will never get it back. It is our nation's right to maintain natural protection in terms of human and animal health. [[The president calls.]] This situation is envyful, unique, and, in fact, surprising that we will give up on maintaining the natural defenses of our country. [[The president calls.]] I have to ask the president to register me again to the rosary, for I have to give a full review of this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u78	Madam President. Thank you. For him, a senator spoke of wonderful things. I can agree with many of the suggestions he made there. I would especially like to highlight in his speech the extraordinary success that the Icelandic poultry has achieved, which is the very essence of the language, and is the reason for the top. Agrienvironment schemes want to take additional measures to protect this situation. What I missed from talk. The senator was saying that he was not tore in any other way. I ask the senator what his ideas are about how Iceland should react after receiving this sentence. I think it is important that we discuss in this discussion which other ways are effective. If a Senate world could recognize this, I'll be the first to agree with it and to shape it if it is practical and not with the consequences. A senator traced it here, quoting excellent reviews. The main thing is this, and I've read these excellent reviews all: I don't feel much like what they're trying to do about it. Turn to the bottom of the door. Business committees, and what. A senator sitting there today, and I ask how he intends to handle the procedures there are proclaimed. Does he want to reject all of them or to reject any other course of action? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u79	Madam President. It is far from me to reason on the avenues proclaimed in the 12 parts of the government and the Supreme Action Programme. Minister. All I allowed myself to indicate is that there is a repeated theme in the comments available here, but there are at least There is considerable concern in the organizations that have been dissuaded about this matter because these actions do not go far enough and that they will not be put in place during the short period of time. I had a chance to do this earlier today. Minister particularly after important aspects of this operation programme, which is the avoidance to distribute poultry food, unless it is established that a Campylobacter has not been identified. I received very up - to - date answers from the highest. Minister and I reiterate my gratitude to him for that. My concern for this scene increased at least not to the answers he gave. But it may be this way, Madam President, that political and diplomatic solutions are in the face of great interests, where food security, protection of farms, and competition of domestic food production. Perhaps not entirely satisfying answers have been made to the extent of being driven by governments in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator answered, and I took from it that point, and, in particular, welcomed him, that he agrees with the measures to the highest. Agricultural ministers are preaching in the Senate. I underline it, just as I said in my speech earlier, that I think that this is the exact role of the employment committee and those there discussing these measures and if at all possible, close them. I did not choose my lot in life to have to speak in support of breaking off the law of freeze. I have previously had another job, and I was supportive of that law. But I don't share with the courts. Our Supreme Court has judged in these ways. I'm disappointed. I also know that in Iceland's lawsuits, this special position was maintained on the rise and delicate status of livestock stocks. It was not given for this in the findings of the EFTA Court. After sitting, a respectable president, a question to ask. A senator by means of his talk: What other means are there to respond in a way that is being proclaimed in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u81	Mr. President. Of course, I support all measures aimed at promoting food security, securing housing protection, and improving the competitive status of domestic food production. All I allowed myself to do was draw out the concerns of a red thread through the headlines. I am fully aware of what the court's Supreme Court has to say on this matter, and especially the Supreme Court of Iceland causes a great deal of trouble. On the other hand, I allow myself to say so, the brings up the matter in answer to an answer. A candidate, that a sovereign nation is in control of political and diplomatic actions and should use them as best possible in this regard. I think it's very important that all the interests in this country be protected. I do not minimize the great problems these judgments, foreign courts, and the Supreme Court, create governments. I also allowed myself to say that, of course, it must be, and thank you. A senator for agreeing with that viewpoint, the main field project of the day. The job committee is covering the operation programme very closely, how far these actions will be achieved, and how likely they will be implemented in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u82	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill that has to change the import of livestock products. First, I want to thank you especially why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his speech and language I agree with, especially what he said at the beginning of his talk on livestock disease and how fragile our livestock stock is. We can go back to doing so when the flock was brought in by imported funds or when a Danish ram was brought into the country by 1900, where we were still able to get the ride we are still dealing with. The bill is the highest. Ministers of the marine road and agriculture to respond to the judgment of the EFTA Court and also to the results reached by the Icelandic courts, i.e. that the current war against Directive 89/662/EEC where special measures or cross-border testing are prohibited. It is true that this directive was instituted in 2009, but we have not responded by changing our legislation in the past. We have been struggling to defend ourselves, but the methodology we have had is not recognized. You're right. You're right. A minister came into a speech, that the freezing duty does not protect us against disease, but gives us room or time to deal with if difficult diseases arise abroad, such as cowing and swine fever. This has thus made a difference, but it will not be here any more. The paper with the bill says that we're going to stop these fractures, as is now pleasantly said, stop this unknown and become responsible. All right, but how do we defend our unique position, and how do we become responsible? The import of raw meat and disease control is about Iceland's future speciality. The future interests of Icelandic society depend on. Then I'm talking about the health and health of our livestock. They are far bigger than the interests of any particular class in the modern world. Contracts and laws are human work that can be changed, but if your country's speciality is lost, it will not be easily restored. The import of raw meat and carnivores has grown in recent years, especially in the last three years. Almost all the import of carnivores is made of broiled meat. If we cross-cutting that amount in bone meat, it can be seen that the percentage of imported poultry last year was about 20%, in pork 27%, and in beef 22%. Thus import is fact and has become significant. We are under obligation to protect ourselves from the uniqueness of our relatively low levels of antibiotic use in agriculture and the low rates of antibiotic resistant bacteria in humans. National speciality builds, including the purity of our livestock stocks, which we have succeeded in because of our land. The whole world must resist the threat of growing antibiotic resistance. An amazing correlation between food consumption and agricultural use has been demonstrated with high rates of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in humans. Their interests are life on earth as precious as the purity of air and water. Icelandic food production is not excluded. We have to watch her, too. It is a fact and a well - known example of such things from abroad. These include diseases such as foot-and-mouth sickness, which may be the plague most feared and highly contagious. In some cases, it has been minimized, but it is recognized through food. So we must be prepared for unregistered import of raw meat to become a reality here - and what can we do? In addition to this bill, the government has introduced its food security strategy to provide protection for livestock stocks and improved the competitive status of domestic food production. It's all very important. These are the ways we choose to take action against that judgment. All countermoves are important and are entitled. If the measures are to be successful, however, we must have longer than a few months to implement them. It is particularly important that a thorough, international, and accepted risk assessment is achieved that will address the impact of the changes in this country. So I would assume that a postponement of the law's taking effect is important. I don't know what we're talking about in that regard, but for a few months, it's a matter of time before a full-mortem counter measures, even if only one of them. It's important that the import limit changes. It is important to find a flat surface in strengthening the counterweight measures outlined along the bill. Operational plan is in 15 teams. I don't think I'm gonna put one in front of the other because they're all very important; additional insurance on chicken and turkey meat and additional insurance from pork and beef and no price for spreading poultry meat. This is of utmost importance because it sets clearer boundaries for immigrants and ensures that they try hard to avoid it. The Risk Management Committee will be set up. I think we're going to have to do this along with other measures before we get to validate these laws. While there is an international level of agriculture, Icelandic farmers need to adapt to changing requirements and regulations, as this bill shows. Icelandic farm stocks are mostly free of the use of antibiotics and other medicinal products. Yet, such things have come up, and we need to deal with them. Clean livestock stock is a factor in ensuring the country's food security. With warmer climates, globalisation, and the increasing import of meat, there is a risk of transmission of infectious diseases to the country. Strong research on animal health and animal diseases is essential for continued safe production in this country, perhaps now more than ever before. So it is important that we expand our research in agriculture and the food industry. This will give us a better understanding of how to deal with the problem we are discussing today. To achieve that goal, strong food policies must be activated. These are all the things we can do. Strong food policy not only makes us more effective but also makes knowledge that we can build to protect ourselves and deal with this problem. It especially needs to reflect the country's unique status, the development of food production here for sustainable development, its quality, and, above all, the interests of consumers. That's what it's all about. We're all consumers here on the land. There is more to be done. We need to make sure that the same quality requirements for imported foods from the European Economic Area are set up for European Food Products, as the objective of the EEA Convention is to ensure comparable competitive conditions. We need to agree that unless national health is damaged by the import of infected food, it cannot be an objective of the EEA Convention, as nice as it is, to get worse on land. By such measures we minimise the influence of import into farms and public health in this country. This is crucial, and I would like to emphasize that the values of the law will be reviewed in order to see that enough time is available to introduce proposed counterweight measures. Factors such as the disposition of bisylobacter- and salmonella-containing foods and multi-drug resistant bacteria must be prohibited in both the national and foreign productions. We too need to take a closer look at these things. It matters to me, and we can do it at the same time. Like I said, the funds for observation and research have to be secure. A few senators came to terms with insurance earlier, and we need to consider the guarantee fund mentioned in the report, and it is important that we do a little good about it. I'd like to reiterate that we need to do these operations, which are very good, and make sure they work when the bill takes effect. In particular, I would like to highlight the risk assessment, which is important to be taken into account and taken into account the changes in this country and their importance to us in the human health and health of livestock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator wrote an article in the November 28, issue of The Watchtower. with another senator from the advance party, why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. The article was a bit interesting, and there it says why. Councilmen, under a section of the article that has your subscription Do not give up: With the approval of a private bill, we would be as an independent nation to give up the rules set without sufficient knowledge of potential influences. Later, says: By allowing the import of raw meat without the time period that results from the freezing duty, we would be making a questionable experiment with the people's health. I want to ask you why. A senator: Supports the moment. Senator of this bill? The article says: We are under obligation to protect ourselves from our unique position... Therefore, the European Commission needs... to have conversations with those who control the European Union. I'm also asking why. A senator: thinks so. A senator who has had enough of this conversation with the European Commission officials? These are two points. Good points. Good points. A senator worthy of a clear answer. Supports him. In view of this article, a candidate for the bill sees why. A senator that has been sufficiently successful in these discussions with the European Union to demonstrate our unique position in this important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u84	A respectable president. The questions and comments. paritaprevir Þórarinsson Birgir of Dírín comes in to swerve me into my speech earlier. I'm just as English on this bill, but I know that talks have taken place, even after these billings came out. I know it's the highest. Kristján Þór Julietsson's Júlíusson went out on Thursday to interview the EU in this regard. I think it's respectable that this conversation takes place, and it's going to take place on more surfaces. If we're going to all these operations, I think we've got everything we need to work on, especially before the bill takes effect. I think it matters. I tore the matter up, and this conversation will take place and will take place for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to put this into context as a boy. In the article "Do not give up. " Isn't this bill a surrender? In the article, that's why. A senator wrote in the Farm newspaper, saying: ▪ It is necessary to request more space for induction, adjustment, and real defenses to take time. I couldn't agree more. A senator in this regard. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of the Parliament whether the advance team as such will promote a longer delay in these materials, e.g. For three or five years, as mentioned here. I can't read any better than that. A senator giving this speech earlier spoke a little at a loss about what she said in an article in the farm paper; she spoke about giving up, not giving up. Then there's a bill that's given up for good. Clearly, a senator is going to support us. In turn, whether the advance party is going to head over to support the bill and whether the advance group is going to promote a longer delay if that is the case. A senator cannot imagine supporting this in the same form. Do you have any suggestions from the forward group regarding this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u86	A respectable president. I have an opportunity as a part of a professional committee to follow the bill forward, and I've never been dumb in there. I think I'll still have to work with this case, and I'll definitely put some print on it. This programme of action is set out and the suggestions it contains, and there is also an opportunity for it to apply to Icelandic agriculture. Hv. A senator spoke of whether I would support a three - to - five - year extension. I think it's a pretty long time. I think we'd have to go way too many laps after that. I'd like to say again to the highest. A minister went out for a discussion, and the conversation still takes place. Although the bill has been submitted, it is not in its final form that we get to vote for here. I can say that I will discuss the matter on the committee. I hope we have a good time to put our fingerprints on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u87	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill to correct changes in animal diseases laws and warnings against them, food laws and the protection laws on food, crop control, and seed products, i.e. The import of livestock products. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a clear and powerful presentation on this bill. And I'd like to thank you once. A senator for an inspired and powerful speech earlier today, why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. By permission of the president, it is safe to say that old Halli was back, so it is time to celebrate. I'm not going to stay for very long. It's clear what this bill is all about. The primary purpose of this judgment is to face, i.e. ... todisputethefeit ofthefeature. I feel like they've been a little trapped here lately in the fables and reviews. Even though I've kissed him. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson went back to live in 1949. [[Take it up to seven.]] 1947. But we need to ask ourselves, " How will I cope with the future, and what will I try to do about it in my speech? ' Of course, there is much to be said about what lies ahead. Life is always a challenge; at times we need to look for ways that are not in front of us. I would have been glad to have here an endless freezer and a huge toll wall, and so on the streets, but reality is not like that. What will we do to support and strengthen Icelandic agriculture so that it will flourish in the future? A big question is asked. If so, try to answer that question. I don't have a patent solution on it any more than anyone else, but together I believe that we can always find ways to approach this goal, no matter where we stand--and what will have been here and before and everywhere else. This bill shows a good plan of action. In the data I have, it's in 15 teams, many of them have been talking about 12 earlier today. I wondered when we arrived at this strategy: In order for this strategy to be truly useful, is it not wise to conclude that it is a political resolution that follows the bill? I would suggest that men take a look at it, for we always know that what comes with a bills, whether in a report or something else, doesn't bite quite as much. But if we had this in Congress and we were to take this operation plan and make it even more powerful than it already is, I'm not afraid of anything when we bring in this bill. I also state that we need, I think, a longer lead-in period to introduce all these programmes. I believe until September 1 is too short of time. I'll gladly eat it in my mouth if I'm wrong, but I think it needs a professional committee to look into it, like so many things in this matter. We also need to take it a little firmly and wonder how we can do the Icelandic agriculture as competitive as possible to the point of importing it; for it is absolutely inevitable that it will be imported. Power stations in Iceland have been likened to cancerers here today. I think there's a lot of proper description, i.e. They're sharers, compared to the giant corporations we compete with. I've been tireless of talking about reexamination of the work environment of products and knowing that it's the highest. Ministers sometimes find me boring when I come into this, but I'm going to continue to tire him out with it. It is fundamental to Icelandic agriculture that the carnivores of the meat industry can unite, work together to meet the challenges ahead. That's the perfect key. Then consider the import. There's been a talk here about extra insurance for a Campylobacter, extra insurance for salmonella. It is forbidden to distribute unbound milk. We add one more item: Prepare a distribution of groceries containing a certain amount of multi-drug resistant bacteria. I'm assuming that the employment committee is looking at these routes very carefully, because if we go this way, forbids distribution of products containing Campylobacter and salmonella and a bane distribution of unbound milk and groceries containing a certain amount of multi-drug resistant bacteria, we've got some very powerful defenses. But in this context, we must also expect our own farming. Let us always make the most of our own demands, for first we will be listened to. We will never be listened to if we are going to defend ourselves by any other means. The charges must first come in here at home. That's the perfect key. I also realize that we need to investigate. We need extra surveillance. We need information on our own agriculture. Where are we on this mountain? We're pretty well aware of that about a Campylobacter. We've been screening for a considerable number of years. They're screened for salmon, I know, at least in some slaughterhouses. I don't really know the rule around it. We all know this, and we all know that we have no prohibition on distribution of unbridled milk. And we also need to screen for multi-drug resistant bacteria. When it comes to the purity of agrienvironmental products, our situation is very global. I assure you that no other nation has this resource, to be with it as much as an unpolluted product as possible. I'll tell you the next thing. I want it behind my ear. We are to do all we can to keep it that way. I'm not saying that this bill is the highest. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson is to submit a new handbook. That's a good step. We're on our way. We just need to add something to it. I have full faith in that. The Parliament's employment committee accepts it this way. This programme will include e.g. It is included in the markings of food - and not undernecessary. They can be pretty misleading. With the permission of the president, I'm going to read here the content description of the imported foods. It's like this: Content: Wildflower honey Then comes the source: Eastern Europe, Central and South America and/or... [[Coughed in the Senate Hall.]] And organic witnesses. Likely, the certificate of origin has been quite complex. That's all I believe. I see people smile at this. But it's not really funny. What are you doing with this? The consumers are only being fooled, unfortunately. This is all too common, deceiving consumers. It's just a little thing. We know that there is a group in the community that has been glued over and this has been the same for us. I have full faith in Icelandic consumers. They want to buy high quality goods, and they want to buy Icelandic goods. They're not for getting some other ticket on top of the goods - that come from abroad, I consecrate. This programme will include e.g. A Risk Management Board, which I don't think has been installed. Foodism is to be revised or won, and it will be returned for the next year. This emphasizes that we need more time than September 1. That's the perfect key. I used to say earlier in my speech that I have confidence that we have such agriculture that if we have our defenses okay and make a requirement for ourselves, we all have roads. Let us think of it so that we can go there, so we will build the countryside. We don't build them up by spending our time here tearing down with a conflicting compromise, because by this I think we're in better business. If we do this properly, we add these things we used to do, we'll have a much more powerful defense for our farms and to protect the people of our country than we have today when the freezing duty is against people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to grab a little bit of that bill from the National Association of Sheep. The review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The government of the Landsam of Sheep has studied the subject of the bill and is totally opposed to its approval. It is their opinion that the EU contract will be reviewed in view of the inability to apply regulations 13. The EEA Convention as the basis for the current implementation for the import of raw unheated meat. [...] The Agency considers the results of the EFTA Court and the Supreme Court of Iceland to be a complete failure to establish conditions for the agreed agreement and reject the surrender of the bill. Iceland has an enormous value, which involves the unique disease status of Iceland's livestock. This fact, as well as the very small and targeted use of antimicrobial antibiotics for decades, makes agricultural production in Iceland unique when it comes to purity. This position of ours is envyworthy, as the review says, that it is unique and, in fact, surprising that we will give up on maintaining the natural defenses of our country. Now it's so bad. A senator is the former chairman of the European Union of Sheep. Then I'd like to ask him if he thinks it's a total surrender. He also said that he was afraid of nothing. Does he disagree with this statement by means of the Book of Sheep?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u89	A respectable president. Thank the senator the answer. I'm sure that if they had listened to my speech earlier, they would have been different. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think we're clear. I can also tell you exactly what to do. A senator said that this statement by the Landsam of Sheep was written out of my heart three or four months ago. But better men are better off living, and that applies not only to me but also to more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u90	Thank you. A senator's quick answer. Something interesting. This is how he used to be in this very important agricultural industry. The national reference to the bill to sheep in sheep's prayers also states: ▪ In addition, the organization believes that there must be a much longer procedure than has been proposed. Then again I want to ask what. A senator: Does he agree? Does he think that there must be more extreme counter measures? Would he be willing to support, say, change the suggestion that there would be more time and careful counter measures? Must not be counted as "what" or "what." Is there a problem with what a senator has previously said and how he now operates in this important article?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u91	A respectable president. Thank you for another answer. The question was: Am I here to support the bill by means of added counter measures? I came into my speech earlier that these counter measures needed my attention. First of all, I wanted counter measures to be made to make a Congress resolution, and then I listed a few things, one of four that need to be added. I can tell you that, and I can be honest with that answer, okay? paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, if these points come up again, I'll be rooting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking the agricultural minister for a good bill, a great story. I also agree with a wonderful speech from which to speak. 1st. Witchest. "gamall Halla as he was called, which I always thought had been called Gamli Rauður, but there's obviously some misunderstanding. I've been watching this bill for a while. I led a team of projects that watched the progress of this issue, this bill, and I'm very pleased with how it worked. You have to realize that this is a response to a bad situation. It's a bad situation. They'll have to deal with it right away. There is no need for practicality or a closer look. It's just not available, I'm sorry. Based on the time we've had and the Ministry had, there's a bill that responded well to this and not only that but also greatly benefits the bill for food security in the country, for the competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture and the protection of farms. There's a lot of stuff in this bill, and that's very good. A few have spoken of such things as these, and maybe most people have talked about some kind of history, that we should have done better in the old days or things like that. There's nothing to it. And it is quite clear that the illegal frozen family in its time does not protect us from bacterial resistance. This bill has certain assurances about Salmonella. The freeze may have had some effect on the Campylobacter. But, of course, I say to people who are worried about this and who think that everything is going to hell because of this: Let them eat imported meat. There's plenty of great Icelandic product. I am absolutely convinced that this change will give the Icelandic food manufacturer great opportunities. Developing is and has been a long time, going very fast, with consumers demanding better and safer products. Let's just start with it right here at home, buying this great product, though she may be a little more expensive, because it's much better. And I'm also just as convinced that foreign consumers will soon realize that Icelandic food is with the best in the world. We can't be stuck in the same old rut. I'm not saying it's not possible to improve this bill or make it better. But here we are dealing with this situation, as well as to improve the situation of Icelandic production. I think it's a general thing to celebrate by supporting the bill, even though it doesn't feel perfect in every respect, or that it may need a longer time, which I'm not sure, but it's not available. I myself am a great supporter of domestic food production. I am prepared to put forth some effort to promote the competitiveness of Icelandic production and to increase food security, etc. But I want to do the law. And I want to go to the contracts we've made, end up with a huge interest in the fact that we're going through this. Whatever we may feel about the legal or illegal judgments we have just said, we can debate about that, then this is the result, and I think that for a long time it is a benefit to Icelandic society, to a great improvement in Icelandic food production and Icelandic society. So we have relatively good things to do. I hear I've only been able to awaken a member of the Middle Class. But I'm asking men to think about this. We cannot be here with any shorter baptism or any deception toward the contract we have signed and have been judged. All that stuff just comes in our heads. These are major interests: that we have secure food production, competitive food production, and a potential for promoting and increasing competition in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u93	Mr. President. I'll be late considered the Central Party Watch, but it's true that I'm being awakened for the competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural community and want to thank you very much. A candidate for a clear speech, a frank speech, in which he well described the situation exactly as it is, that the situation today is not selective. It is an illegal situation, and governments are under obligation simply to fulfill this judgment. The judgment of the EFTA court is not a matter of choice. Of course, governments are supposed to take care of things, and I think it's the best. Ministers have done it well. It's a difficult road. It's very easy for me to come here and say, "He's not doing it right, he should've done it queer." However, a minister tries to guard against wholesome practices in Icelandic society. He knows that Icelandic agriculture, as soon as he fulfills our international commitments, which well define enormous interests, would hang on to our continued commitment to the EEA agreement and the commitments we have made, governments in the last 15, 20 years. I've been listening to all the talks in the house today from my office at the council convention. Of course, they are excellent. In essence, I don't agree with all of them. However, it has been found that there are doubts among the council members, clear doubts that this matter will go through the council. Naturally, things always change. But I'd like to ask why. Senator: Will he agree with the tone that I explained earlier in the speeches of several members of the government, to postpone this execution possibly in order to implement the programme and to use the strategy to build high fences, including to make it harder for the importer to import fresh meat? [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator to these two questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u94	V.E.G. President. The answer is no. I will not agree to postpone a validation unless some form of agreement is reached outside Europe for that to be okay. I don't believe it's gonna get caught. But I will not agree to postpone a validation. Now you don't remember the second question, you've grown up. [[Take it up through a plan of action.]] I think the judgment is very clear. Is there any fences that could be prevented? Then we're only in another lawsuit that I'm not interested in. I'm just interested that we follow the contracts we've made, apply the rules we've applied, and do the best to ensure wholesome products in Iceland, whether we make them ourselves or others bring them in. Have as much insurance as we can about any product, whether it is domestic or imported, equally valid for everyone. It is important to be healthy markets, healthy competition, but rules that ensure wholesomeness. It's just the way it is, really.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u95	Mr. President. I would like to reiterate my gratitude for this purity and also really believe that we can set the rules that highlight the wholesomeness and support of Icelandic agriculture, because we do. A senator argues that in competition we are, I'm sure, both convinced that Icelandic agriculture will outweigh the imported products. Of course, it is an consumer's choice. We must trust them. At the same time, this freedom and this is an incentive for us to do better as we try to establish clear rules that can be fulfilled. a clear surveillance role so that consumers know where the product comes from. There we stand, as well as the agricultural industry, much more. I'm gonna say this and I'm gonna ask you why. A senator of these questions is a bitter experience through a professional committee that when they sit there and have the opportunity to help, they go in the opposite direction. I want to point even. in the cheese language, the special language, where there was opportunity to open it, which was shut and nailed in the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u96	V.E.G. President. I really do have big faith in Icelandic producers. I think the Icelanders have shown that they know how to deal with competition. I think they did it in the vegan business, as they say. [[To the point: Absolutely.]] When we are faced with the challenge of doing so, how powerful we are! But we have to make sure that there's a healthy environment here for that. As I said before, I am a great admirer of the Icelandic farmers and manufacturers, and I believe in them. I have no doubt that this will give them much access. If matters develop in any other way, I am prepared to examine various measures to secure food production, making sure that there is safe food production here. [[The president calls.]] That's just a second visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He made it clear that the law has been broken and that we need to respond in a proper way to it, that's why this bill is being shown. However, this issue is also about our individual agriculture and our unique status. I believe that we are always so important as this to use ourselves in the political arena, i.e. discuss our special status with the European Commission and show them the risks of implementing the obligations of this bill. For example, during the land covert dispute with the British, we gave important evidence to support our cause, such as the report of the Institute for Overfishing. The evidence was on our side, and we finally won a victory against an empire, as we know it. The same is true in my case. Our unique stand is irrefutable. Icelandic livestock stocks have been isolated for centuries, and they have never been exposed to the spread of many farms endemic in Europe and elsewhere, so the evidence is on our side. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: Is it not reasonable that we use all our reasoning before we give up, as they say? Then let me mention specifically what appears in Article 114. The Lisbon Treaty, which is authorized for a state of speciality, if that is the case, because of some problem or because of the state's uniqueness. [[The president calls.]] This is true in the European Union. This does not apply within the European Economic Area, the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask why. Senator: Does he not believe that this is evidence that we should apply in our discussion and point out that we should apply to the EEA as well?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u98	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u99	V.E.G. President. Hv. Senator, we already used that reasoning. That argument was given to all in the case of the court. In the discussion, they sometimes forget. We are always trying to protect our interests. It is done in this case too. The representatives of the European Union are addressed, etc. You've got some serious debates. All the evidence was presented in the court case. This led to the conclusion. That's why we're reacting to bad conditions. Whatever may seem to us, regardless of how much we want to interpret 12, 13. Okay, that's how it is. I'm just saying, what? A senator, that I count the results and this bill even improve - nothing even, I think it will be long-term improvement for Icelandic food production. I believe it. But that is not to say that there may not be difficulties somewhere along the way. But I will want to examine the resources that can be used or used at any given time to secure food production, as I have said before, on wholesome products, from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. After what I have examined, I cannot see that we have applied ourselves sufficiently to the European Union, i.e. politically speaking. Now I'm talking political. I don't know that this has been discussed with the European Commission, Jean Claude Juncker, the highest executive in the European Union. This is a big deal. So I take back the illustration of the landy debate, there was a debate between Prime Minister and British Prime Minister, at the highest level of the administration. I can't see that it was done right now, and I think it's a normal way to be fully tested. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me in this matter, from whether or not there are counter measures involved, or whether they are adequate or not. [[The president calls.]] It's, for example. Unable to obtain conferences that were available to the minister of foreign affairs, there is insufficient information on how well we have applied ourselves in the political field. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u101	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u102	V.E.G. President. I think we've used ourselves as much as we could. Of course, we can reason and debate as to whether we're good enough, but I don't quite agree that this is such a terrible case. We moved in meat before, it was just frozen, which has no effect on the antibiotic resistance and does not even save ourselves properly from a camylobacter, which we basically can cope with by cooking the food. I'm like the highest. Minister, I'd like to eat the food cooked. I'm not so worried about this. I don't think it's a big deal. It works on me like a light nationalism in the past. Senator. Not that I have anything against her, not at all, but that old men should not be trapped. Now all we have to do is look ahead and be bold, but still secure production. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son's speech. Here we deal with the bill and related counter measures, which I consider to be necessary by the council to determine if they will be able to ensure that there will be risks or challenges to Iceland's public health as the changes that follow the bill and as much as the risks for the habitats of the country. I think it's both very important and in itself a big deal, but a case that can be handled if action is properly arranged. There is one challenge that I especially want to ask you why. A senator in, i.e. A risk assessment. I believe that one of the things that should have actually been done but is the key to the future being an internationally accepted risk assessment that has been established by global food management and global food security agencies. That is the key to all our future prevention. My question to the senator is, if we had results of such a risk assessment, wouldn't there be all discussions with the European Union and in the European Economic Areas on a stronger basis? If so, we would have information about a real position where we actually stand longer, as well as about what we could get out of a number of types of analysis of where the risk really lies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u104	V.E.G. President. There is a decision by the head of an animal doctor and a DG regarding the protection of livestock stocks. It is as follows: cryoprecipitation has little or no effect on viral and bacterial diseases in animals but can affect parasitic infections. Legally produced meats within the EEA and how the EEA reacts to severe animal diseases, including with a spontaneous reporting system between countries, it should be avoided that products that may contain infectious veterinary medicinal products should be transmitted to the country. Therefore, the discontinuation of cryoprecipitation may be considered to have little impact on animal diseases in this country and to reduce the risk of counter-improvement. There has been some evaluations. Of course, there is a significant risk of being alive, in general. But here, of course, it has been guaranteed as far as it can go, I think. [[The point is, what?]] I'm sure there's a delay or some view of this that won't change anything, unfortunately. But I'm still such a man that, of course, I want to be safe as far as possible. It's been a pretty good deal, too, how we can guarantee ourselves. And transportation between countries and anything that's happening - of course, something can happen. But I think we're ready to do it and we can handle it, so I'm not worried that the cryo-phry will do something about it. That's just what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. However, I believe that he misunderstood the question. Of course, internationally accepted risk assessment with a particular methodology has not been conducted here. I think there's something we need to be sure to be done in the future because it can subtly build, for example. legalisation of the General Assembly in various areas, not only in the transport of food from countries, but also in priorities in waste management and waste management and other priorities. This will support a more solid basis for the overall risk assessment, e.g. For what actual risks are involved in the tourism, what prevention should we put in there, etc. So I want us to be more careful in this regard forever. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u106	V.E.G. President. No, I'm sure it's very good to make a full risk assessment in these areas. I'm not going to disagree. But as I've said before, we're here responding to a bad situation in as quickly as possible to avoid much damage to the taxpayers. There is no time for any international risk assessment with all of this. [[Up front.]] - No. However, we have the results from an infectious doctor and a psychiatrist, so I feel that the preparation for this is as good as possible, and some postponement or delay of it would only be damaging and could be very damaging, which I do not want to harm the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u107	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in animal diseases laws and defences, food laws and the law on food control, crop control, and seed products (the import of livestock products). Most of all, I'm going to discuss the report and reviews in this talk. The bill is suggested to remove the current licence system for importing certain agricultural products. The aim of the change is for the Icelandic government to fulfill the international commitments it has taken to end Iceland, to respect its commitments under the EEA Treaty, the EFTA Court's judgment on its interpretation and the Iceland Supreme Court. A counter-improvement programme related to the bill as well as the extension of the aforementioned bill is the government's response to Iceland's Supreme Court from October 11, 2018 and EFTA Court from November 14, 2017. The verdict was that the current license system for the import of meat and eggs and the requirement for cryo-conservation of meat breaking is against Iceland's commitment under the EEA Convention. The requested license system includes the forbidden import of meat and eggs to this country, except by the provision of the Food Agency, with the request for such a import. Each product delivery requires proof that the products have been stored at least -18°C for one month for toll pay. We'll be on a professional network, but the one here on a professional network is doing a good job job job job job job, rolling there with every rock. It's a review of the bill from the National Farmers Association of Iceland. .....on the 13th floor. The EEA Convention, that scholars have suggested that it is reasonable to argue that Member States can rely on Article 13. The agreement would apply, despite the agreement on greater freedom of business at the expense of human and animal health views. The community has repeatedly noted that the scientific evidence of the government's appeal to the courts, on the risk of increased import on the above products, has not been questioned. The position of the Icelandic agricultural industry to compete with foreign production cannot be considered equal to that of the article having unique advantages that can easily be lost. Experts have noted that the reduction of the import restrictions, such as cryostasis, will mean a significant increase in risk in various aspects of human and animal health. Feed infections increase and there is an increased risk of transmission of resistant bacteria to antibiotics. No other European nation screens as well for the Campylobacter, as Iceland's success in this struggle is considered to be envyable. Infections caused by bacteria are the most common food infections in Europe. Infections caused by antibiotics resistant bacteria are considered one of the most serious health problems in the world today. These are strongly associated with antibiotic use in agriculture but based on data from the European Medicines Agency, from 2015 onward, the level of antibiotic use in agriculture in Europe is up to 88 times higher than in this country, where it is highest in Europe. It is unmistakably true that domestic livestock stocks have lived under long isolation and have never been exposed to the spreads of many farm diseases endemic in Europe and elsewhere. In this case, it is likely that it could do much harm with unsurpassed consequences. In this case, the EU does not have access to any insurance reserves due to the damage caused by housing diseases, except subsidies for sheep cutbacks. After this 1st. will walk the bill to the professional committee, where the one sitting here will be seated and we will be able to do well in the sewing on this case. Even though it was. Níelsson I think it's a big deal. I think it's a big deal. I say it's health issues. We have to work on this as best of all Icelandic agriculture for our good. This is also a cautionary issue, since we must deal with the diseases that this may bring. To me, it's a big deal that you can't talk about it in any way that it's a small matter. We are faced with the need to respond to this judgment, and the reaction, including the result, is urgent. in this bill. This is a vast bill, one 40 pp. In this way, we will work on a job committee. I think I'll say good this time and talk about it better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u108	V.E.G. President. It is a huge interest in everyone, so we must be careful. The lowest incidence of Campylobacter in Europe is Iceland. The lowest gang of Salmonellas is in Iceland. The lowest incidence of the E. coli bacteria is Iceland, but the bacteria have not been found in Icelandic livestock. This is likely because defences to be set aside in this country are now being set aside. In this regard it is important to remember that food security and people's health should always weigh more than commercial interests. The report on the bill now discussed points out that funding has been provided for the Food Agency to expand the study and analysis, but there is no financial program to support its role in monitoring. The security of both people and animals is guaranteed. The European cow farmers express their concern, and they can be read in their review of government consultations where they say, by permission of presidents: ▪ Animal animals can be accompanied by animal diseases that threaten our fragile stocks, diseases that are relatively low in size abroad can surmount large gaps in our isolated stocks. So it's a big deal. In addition, the administration of the European Council of Cows says that governments are taking great risks and that there is no discussion of how to deal with national manufacturers or their working environment. The Society warns against the compromise offered on the bill, which may have irreparable consequences for our vulnerable species. At the same time, defenses are being installed in Europe. That is very thought - provoking. It is worth considering that the government is not ready to support Icelandic farmers and thus produce rich and undisputed produce. True, it is not possible to resist the judgments that have fallen, but if you want to, you can find ways to defend what you have, wholesome food production. In some cases it is claimed that it should be listened to experts and those who know best, and in this case it is Icelandic farmers. Their comments to the bill are not to be ignored, and there is no way to argue that it cannot be handled. We should respond and listen to the warnings of the best - known ones. They're farmers. Our situation is unique, so we must maintain all the defenses we now have. The situation of agriculture in this country is not equal if foreign production is compared to the situation. Our special standing here in this country is unique. They say so, including published by the National Farmers Association of Iceland, that food infections could increase and that there may be a greater risk that bacteria resistant to antibiotics may even be transmitted to this country. As I said before, there is a risk that domestic livestock can become infected with diseases found in other European countries. It is therefore a question of whether to review a customs agreement with the European Union. The national group of sheep farmers lie down against the bill. This is shown in their review, and they suggest that the EEA contract be revised. They say that governments gave up, further pointing out the following, by permission of a president: It is the opinion of the Community to review the EEA Convention, in view that the 13th Article of the EEA Convention cannot be used as a basis for the current declaration of raw non-frosted meat. When the EEA Convention was implemented in 2009, it was one of the conditions set to prevent import of raw non-fried meat, raw eggs, unbridled dairy products, and raw unexploded skins. The UN considers the results of the EFTA Court and the Supreme Court of Iceland a complete failure to establish conditions for the agreed agreement and to refuse the surrender of the bill. This is a very interesting point to me, and it will be interesting to watch how the employment committee will deal with this principle. It's our duty to ensure the safety of food production in the country. It also means that we will be secure throughout the country. It has to do with job security and not merely with farms or with farms, as mentioned above, but with some of the parts of the chain breaking, there is a real danger. We need to see through the plans of those who see an advantage in importing cheap products that often fail to meet our standards. The food production of Icelandic agriculture is an important future job to be used to protect and ensure a better business environment. Diversity and intensive agriculture are essential to the national food security and are based on a cornerstone. So I agree to review customs agreements with the European Union with the aim of ensuring the position of national production that often competes with supplied products, as I said earlier, which is prepared under unacceptable conditions. Following this discussion, the matter is addressed to a professional committee, and it is clear that it is waiting for a great deal of work. It must simply continue to be won in such a way that there will be wholesome food production and this without any risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u109	Mr. President. We're here discussing changes in animal diseases laws and protection against them and other laws. The action of the legislation is the judgment of the district Court, the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court, which in short includes the violation of national obligations under the EEA Convention by maintaining the import of raw meat, eggs, and unscrupulous dairy products. Therefore, it is necessary for the Icelandic government to open the import of raw meat, eggs, and unbound milk. Here's the law that goes that way. Mr. President. Iceland and I have the good and envyable position that agricultural products produced here in our country are healthy and largely uninfected with drug resistant bacteria. This is not true in large areas of Europe. Surprisingly, we're just starting to upset all of this. This case has to do with many areas, Mr. President, and one of them is national food security. We must be mostly of our own, about food. Why? It's a public defence issue. There are a number of disasters that can be held at the door. Natural disaster, from commercial views such as those of this fall, to the confusion of man's actions, when mankind shows its worst aspects in war. Food security is a public interest concern and is, in fact, a public defence issue. Therefore, it is important to nurture and secure domestic food production so that we are ready to feed the population in case of disaster. This is also involved in the preservation of knowledge about producing the products, the resulting workforce, and in a short period of time may be lost. This case involves not only national food security and domestic production, as I have mentioned, but also the protection of domestic farms. Not only do I mean our special farms, the Icelandic horse, the Icelandic sheep, or the lead stock, but I also mean the general status of Icelandic farms, which have been mostly isolated for over 1100 years and therefore are vulnerable to all types of infectious diseases from other sources to form in Europe, are often in frequent endemic areas, and in time have not become as dangerous as Europe's farms farms. If these diseases were contaminated by the Icelandic farm stocks, it could be devastating and could at worst destroy individual strains on the land, thus irreparably damaging our heritage as a nation. Mr. President. There is also the possibility that more and more antibiotics resistant bacteria are being brought here - to a greater extent than we have experienced and with unpredictable results. Scientists have believed that the threat of mankind's growth in the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria and have increased their tolerance of antibiotics to the greatest health threat mankind is facing in the near future. These types of bacteria are becoming endemic in Europe, which is a direct result of the excessive use of European livestock-injected antibiotics so that the animals do not get any contour, grow as fast as possible, thus being able to come to slaughter earlier, and then get state-made flights to all EU banks. This suggests that Iceland will become one of the markets available to these products. I have not mentioned any other diseases that cause people to have food infections and are endemic for Europe, such as Campylobacter. The import is offering the risk of an increase in such poisoning. What is the reason why most of these diseases are unknown or far more rare in this country than in the continent of Europe? The reason is the pureness of Icelandic livestock products and pure nonpolluted water. Then I would also like to mention in my speech that it should be a voluntary requirement for consumers to receive information on the origin of the item offered for sale and consumption. It increases the awareness of consumers and also demands of producers. It also makes it possible for consumers to choose between manufacturers, national and international. You see, there is a big difference between breeding cattle and domestic animals by countries, and consumers are required to know the source of the products - as well as the work of the animals. It is quite different, Mr. President, the Icelandic sheep running freely through mountains and mountains or wild animals in small places of Europe. Then I have an unnamed environment, since these products are to be exported over the sea with the resulting greenhouse gas emissions - as if in all the context they are of no importance. Now that everyone is competing to try to look good in their affairs, self - appointed proponents pave the entire population when judging the European Union's interests, such as this. Their joy could be temporary if the Icelandic industry is sacrificed and we gradually make the import of a product that could be produced here in our unpolluted land. Mr. President. I've been through a few things. I've considered the risk of bringing in antibiotic resistant bacteria. I've covered every kind of poison that can follow these products. I've studied the national food security, which is closely linked to the public defense and the national defence system of Iceland. I have learned knowledge that could be lost in the land, knowledge of agriculture, and the care of livestock. I have also considered the unique characteristics and properties of the Icelandic livestock stocks that cannot be lost - but there is a serious danger, in the case of mismanagement in livestock, that Icelandic livestock generation will simply be eliminated. I have also reviewed the competitiveness of Icelandic and domestic production, which, of course, is extremely difficult to deal with in terms of the strength and resources produced in Europe. Of course, the production is not competitive at all. I've pointed out the difference. Moving in here products, perhaps subsidized, produced by a large quantity of antibiotics and brought here by contaminated greenhouse gas emissions. So I think we should be careful about this matter and protect the national sovereignty that is involved in these many things I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u110	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in animal diseases laws and protection against them, food laws and shapes for food, production and seed products, import of livestock products. In everyday speech, it is called the bill on cryoprecipitation of raw meat and has been discussed from various viewpoints in the hall today since a meeting. Margrét Guðnadóttir, a former professor of sepsis at the University of Iceland, left behind an interview with the Morning newspaper just two years ago that it would be a crime not to try to keep the country clean. Such a situation can be a source of intense emotion. They believe that this is the situation, so that failures will not be made so easily returned with them or inundated from them. I think we here, and look to the rules that are now being worked on, must approach the matter in a way that seeks all ways to ensure the safest environment for domestic food production from now on. Of course, it is in the first order to give nothing of the rights we have today. Whether all the mechanisms that are capable of maintaining our reserve or rights to limit the flow of raw unhealed meat to form, unbrided milk, and raw eggs to the country are determined. If we look toward what is best for the public, surveys show that the public is trusting in the work done so far not so well. The majority of the population is opposed to the fact that the rule, as it will be, this bill will be agreed on as it goes. The public has a good feeling about domestic food production, domestic agricultural products, and wants to put on the shoulders of us who are here should seek all possible ways to protect them. It is then interesting to see new research where the right of about 60% of the country doesn't want to open these changes while right about 30%, if I remember correctly, remains about that. The same study asked if the president of Iceland wanted to refer the case to national pay, if only a small or unchanged, and was more of the country's opinion. As members of the Parliament, we need to realize that our responsibilities are enormous. You experience - and now I hope that my members of the council's members are not angry - as if there were some group conflict going on in the government department, on the other hand, with this matter involved in the removal of the cryo-feature and in the case of the third energy package that is likely to come up for a discussion next week. Rather, they are made up of too much money to throw at the hand. The subject we're discussing here is complex. It turns even. the general use of infectious diseases and food safety. It is a matter of domestic food production, of public health and of import and possible damage. First and foremost, this is another sovereignty case that appears to be minor in nature. - Here comes, as someone said, the Minister of the Room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u111	I'm over 180.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u112	I was only caught when the minister entered the hall and summoned me. It's okay. Today, it has been said that judgment has fallen, and it is necessary for us to fail. Of course, as we know, the case runs back to 2004 or about that year, doubtless to some other extent. Instead of approaching the European principle with the box and saying: " We are going to be able to protect our position so that it will remain the same. ' If we look at the parties that are most relevant, I don't think that if I first look at the information given to the National Institute of Prayer, it's unfair not to anyone. The community and its members are concerned about this and have been a long time. My experience is that it will improve the anxiety rather than reduce them because we are told we will solve all of this by building walls, ensuring that the surveillance will be so good that we can't get in touch with our defense lines, and that we can vacate from the rules we now agree with without risking anything in terms of purity. At the same time, the message that we read from the government budget over the next five years is that it does not seem that any funds were intended to support this operation, which is supposed to add so marvelously. It doesn't make a sound picture, and it makes you wonder that it's going to be all in some sort of harmonica on September 1, when things are supposed to happen, when they're going to have a regular change, and when they're sleeping, they're going to float to the base of their feet. It is quite clear that without additional funds, the surveillance will not be in any position to counteract the effects that could occur if things go wrong. If I cut down a little bit on the town council review, by permission of a president, it says here: The National Association has repeatedly stated that the scientific evidence of its court case on the risk due to increased import of the above products has not been questioned. ◯ If it is possible to talk about the core of the issue in terms of our argument regarding the European principle, this should be the point. There's no one who doubts that purity here is so that you can get into using 88 times as much drugs in foreign production as we look around. The whole of Europe is dealing with about 120 animal diseases at the same time as we are fighting about 20 here at home. These are vast markets, and the production is very different in Iceland, with wholesome and pureness and loyalty being a priority compared to a giant factory to which domestic production will be expected to compete with the following events, as it has been proposed by the highest level. Agricultural minister. If I continue with the town council review, by permission of the President: ▪ The position of the Icelandic agricultural industry to compete with foreign production cannot be considered equal, and the article has a number of uniqueities that can easily be lost. Experts have noted that the reduction of the import restrictions, such as cryostasis, will mean a significant increase in risk in various aspects of human and animal health. Feed infections increase and there is an increased risk of transmission of resistant bacteria to antibiotics. No other European nation screens as well for Campylobacter, since Iceland's success in this struggle is considered to be envyable, while bacterial infections are the most common food infection in Europe. The situation at home is great, and there's a lot of effort to protect it. I first mentioned that one of the issues involved was damage. On the one hand, it is the damage the store seems to consider the word a fixed income e - mail, to go to a government fund on the reported charges. However, there are things we must look to too, i.e. If everything goes wrong, the situation of domestic agriculture will be different from that of today, not only in the market battles of domestic agriculture with respect to foreign industrial production, but also because of changes in disease status and its activities. With the permission of a president, I'm going to take one more quote from the town's review: Infections caused by antibiotics resistant bacteria are considered one of the most serious health problems in the world today. While there is a strong association between this and antibiotic use in agriculture, from 2015 data from the European Medicines Agency, antibiotic use in Europe is up to 88 times higher than in the country where it most is. This is a striking statement, and there is no evidence to suggest that it is questioned. In fact, the evidence that I'm not with at the moment, but perhaps a reference to a second talk, claims that some 33,000 people died in Europe each year because of food infections. I wonder if 33,000 people a year would agree to 20 people in Iceland, if we were to transfer the number, which is pretty much the number of people who die here in car accidents, unfortunately, just as terrible as that situation is. So it is important to work to keep markets as clean as possible, to make crops strong, to support the domestic production that we have enjoyed throughout our life, and not to take unnecessary risks in these products. It was earlier today to wonder if, if the matter should go through as it is suggested, to postpone the taking of the item. If such is to require a new litigation from the store, it would be good for the store to consider lawsuits against the state's funds in the context of its own income stock. I can't believe it else if you can see the need to make time, to make sure the defenses are better, the surveillance, and all that together, they just pull their breath and accept the fact that the induction is not going to work. I have no faith that those who fight for the import are interested in causing domestic agriculture problems beyond what has already become available. If you don't find a way to change the approach provided here, I don't think there's any way you're going to have to take into account all the work that lies ahead of the committee whether they're looking for ways to delay the induction to allow the system to allow space to protect you from the threat ahead. I think it's worth the effort. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I hope we find a way to minimize all the risks we put on this system and make things right at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I pause only at these claims of the Middle Party, that the nation's sovereignty is determined, and asks why. Councilman: Is it not just a sovereign nation that can negotiate a mutual trade, a free flow of a product from one country to another, as we have undergone in this case? How in the world does the claim that governments are in any way impossible because they respect mutual agreements made to forfeit our sovereignty? I don't see how that works, and I have to say, I think it sounds like a scary demilitar. It is possible that, because of the mutual trade with food products, we have much more interest in exporting to the European Union than in importing it. It is important to remember that marine products are under the same food law as agricultural products. Could not our declaration that we do not trust the European Union's postmortem food control and that we are in danger of receiving a mutual declaration that our confidence in the lack of control of marine products being carried out to countries in the European Union is not being carried out? I'm just asking, "Be a member of the Parliament." A senator willing to go to stakes with the exports of seafood into the European market?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for entering the sovereignty section, which I addressed in my speech, I intended to especially address in the second talk. I think it's quite safe to say that if you look at the evidence of the situation, what's been going on, if we aim at the 2004 time goal, it wasn't in the mind of those sitting at the bargain table to end up in the right direction. Put it in the context of the fact that it was intended for a man to negotiate in this position, in itself, is completely absurd, and I'm not going to do much of it. I'm gonna give myself a second. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson realized that it wasn't. This shows all the evidence and the palatures that have taken place for 15 years, negotiations, and then judicial hearings that end with the conclusion that people feel they are responding to today. Now, as far as we're ready to play the country's export lottery money against this, I dismiss that comment. There must be an idea of how each end of the matter is actually being handled. I don't know that anything that turns to the outside of the export, I give myself that the senator was talking specifically about the seabed, is on a very good course, especially good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u115	President. I'm referring to the fact that international relations are often viewed as mutual. I'm not questioning, and I think I know it all well, that monitoring of seafood is here with great benefits, monitoring the healthy product in exporting. I pray that if the European Union began to question food control in the same way that we are doing with the declarations presented here regarding imported meats that we have committed to importing certain conditions, we will not be alone. It's the bond I'm referring to, and it's only discussed in the report with the bill, what could happen, though unlikely, if we were classified as a third state at the time of the transfer of food between the European Union and ours. We have repeatedly been judged guilty of this matter. This is an adjustment or adjustment for what we have been judged guilty of. Of course, we should guard our interests and wholesome warnings that we are bringing in with all the legal advice we can use. To violate the rules we have made in order to work, we must give in to the opportunity to deliberately violate them. It is about to be credible in the long - term international trade, and there is nothing to be done with such things in the national polygamy as I think the members of the Central Party do. I just agree with what. A senator: When it comes to domestic agricultural products, wholesome products, and good products, we have extraordinary quality products at home. I believe, however, that he has no faith in the competitiveness of this good product for import.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u116	Mr. President. It is likely to be said that there is some distinction between us, who fill a group of Central Party members and the restoration of domestic agriculture. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson seems to keep--no, it is, of course, that if. þm. The Þorsteinn of Wazlundsson does not understand the marvelous different conditions for agricultural production in Iceland, here in the north, compared to the factory industry here and there in Europe, of course, that explains a number of things. [[We believe in him.]] To protect domestic production, both in health and on the other hand, to maintain the targeted customs and may be in many ways a major reason to improve their progress. I think there's a difference between the feelings of these two councils for domestic agriculture. It has nothing to do with our being a member of the Central Party Parliament and I don't believe in domestic farming in competition. The fact that we want to defend it in the way we have spoken has to make us understand the different circumstances of domestic agricultural production and the industrial industry as well. A senator and his associates in the woodfields, and many others are eager to contend with him. Even so, that factory is made up of a great deal of anger in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u117	Mr. President. There's been a lot of talk about this bill today, and I'm not going to extend it very much, so far away from thinking that I'm an expert in this field, except that I'm a man who for decades has consumed Icelandic agricultural products with great joy. So I'm a consumer, but I've had nothing to do with agricultural production. I have found a measure of care in the current discussions on this matter that this has been discussed by the manufacturer's interests and has somehow taken in place that the manufacturer's interests are always compatible with consumer interests in these matters. I, Mr. President, allow me to be so bold as to say that it doesn't always have to be. In other words, it may well be that in the United States consumers are interested in buying imported agricultural products. Not only because imported agricultural products are less expensive but possibly even because importing agricultural products may in some cases have more quality than domestic agricultural products. I realize, Mr. President, that this is a very bold statement from me and perhaps almost a myth in this sermon to make such a point. But I still have this suspicion that in some cases, perhaps in exceptional circumstances, foreign agricultural products are even better than Icelandic agricultural products. But that may not be the main point of this case we are dealing with today. It is the conclusion that the Icelanders have failed to fulfill their commitments. Like what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said in a fine speech earlier today: Judgment must be reserved. It's simply so. Maybe it's just over when that sentence has been said. It's a matter of interest. There are many interests in this matter. I brought up here the possibility that we would also need to consider the interests of consumers rather than the interests of the manufacturer. It is also the interest of the fishing industry, huge interests, by exporting marine goods, by transporting fish and markets, and by not adding much of its importance to commercialism. Neither may it be necessary to have many words about, but at times you may feel that there is a reason to remind yourself of this in this discussion, the importance of free business, and in connection with it the importance of a free business for a small nation like Icelanders, the importance of rules and agreements made, the importance of interracial exchange for such a national treat like Icelanders. Icelanders have every reason to respect agreements with the Icelanders, but they do not allow power in that trade because the Icelanders are a nation without arms. It has proved that Iceland has been able to trust international institutions and international judges when it has been tried. Even I allow myself, Mr. President, to remind you of the Icesave case that had been won only for the fact that an international court with which we had been legalized, and the nations we had heard there, ruled in favor of the Icelanders. It is important that we Icelanders respect our international commitments. This is not in my opinion that there is usually a possibility of compromising them. We need to determine how we deal with this commitment, and it seems to me that in this bill it is highly handled. At times, you have felt that it had some market protection for the producers of the Icelandic agricultural industry, which has often been under the cover of consumer protection. There have been many obstacles under the pretext that consumers are being protected. Even in some cases, it is as if it is hard to believe that it is the interests of the Icelandic consumers to live in the most important business ventures. I think it's a rather significant word that it is, but it doesn't change, and we must not forget, that many things about this particular matter are a real concern. It is a real concern for all of us, and we cannot just dismiss it as irrelevant. That it is of no importance that the use of antibiotics is less in Icelandic agriculture than in agriculture on the European continent. It is important and important that we take good care of this, and I expect it to be done in the work of the Committee. There may also be other reasons for customs protection, which, of course, does not involve this matter directly because it does not have to do with sickness. However, there are arguments I find very valid, i.e. The evidence that food transport leaves a lot of carbon footprints, and we know that this is not worth it. It does not show itself at the price of all sorts of goods brought here by airplanes the real price we pay to use this goods and purchases. It is, in a sense, paid with this product. I could think of some kind of price, some carbon charge, that would come down on foods that are thus exported. Nevertheless, I would like to warn that we are approaching this matter or that we usually just have a few issues based on simple contrast details, as I have found a bit prominent in this discussion. On one hand, we have a foreign home, we have purity, we have loyalty. On the other hand, we have foreign, uncleanness, completeness. That's us against the others. We're clean, the rest are dirty. I don't think it's an impossible way to deal with a situation like this to look at it out of these simple contrast doors. Finally, because I started talking as a consumer, I'm naturally right and I have to testify that so much of the agricultural products are excellent. Although food would be brought here from various countries, I am absolutely convinced that if I get the correct information about the origin of the product, I will seek to consume more Icelandic agricultural products than products from countries where I don't know any more. This may be because I'm not very adventurous about my consumption, but I think it means a lot more than I do. I want to finish this talk by highlighting it. I think it's important for consumers to know where the goods are coming from. If it's well marked, and if the marketing of Icelandic agricultural goods is successful and good, then I don't think there's anything to fear in competition for Icelandic products with foreign goods. I think that could be a lift rod. I think that, above all, making return calls will never be our guide when we are solving such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u118	A respectable president. We'll discuss changes in animal diseases laws and protection against them, food laws, food control laws, crop control laws, seafood and agricultural bill. The law is no. 25/1993. In fact, the first question I want to know is, where are we? Are we in the European Union? Are we there without notice? [[To the point: No, no, no.]] Isn't that just the way it is that, through the European Economic Area, our contract, we're simply applying all kinds of energy packages? Today, there were four omissions from the EEA that we were stamping. I guess there's as many cases each year where the Allied Congress of Iceland is a stamp for the EU types that we're given as just the general legislation on which we live on our own? Where is our sovereignty? How do we handle it? But let's say another thing. We are here discussing the import of fresh products, fresh meat, eggs, and unbound dairy products. I'd like to go straight from bringing a little story because, really, I have nothing against our good relations with other countries. The Convention on the European Economic Area gave us full access to the European Union's internal market. He has, in effect, been a fundamental agreement on what is expected to be exported to us, in order to get them out safely into the market. That is not to say that we could not have had them anywhere else to go, but this was at least what we picked up at this time and the outcome is this. We are here with the clock on the air every day at the council, more or less, to stamp a type through this European economy contract. But this little plot that I feel I need to come up with right now, with my concern mainly turning to the trend in the world today regarding antibiotic resistance, is that the discovery of antibiotics at the beginning of the 20th century was considered one of the greatest scientific achievements. With Alexander Flemingur's discovery on penicillin in 1928 and the formation and production of other antibiotics in the following decades, there was hope that healing could be achieved, even eliminating, many of the world's most dangerous diseases. However, the time from the start of antibiotic use did not extend until strains of resistant bacteria developed. Today, some types of bacteria are resistant to almost every type of antibiotic. The World Health Organization has defined antibiotic resistance as one of the world's largest health - care providers. Increasing antibiotic resistance becomes a problem in the treatment of infections, resulting in poor health consequences and increased health costs. The European Commission estimates that in Europe alone approximately 400,000 infections each year due to resistant pathogens, resulting in an estimated 33,000 deaths per year. With increasing travel and trades with food and animal products between the world corners, there are ways for bacteria resistant to bacteria that are never before. I'd like to mention that I contacted and I've been watching a professor very carefully, we have a good professor of biological science at the University of Iceland Medical School. He's also the head of the Geological and Antiviral Department of the Land Hospital. His name is Karl G. Kristinsson. He has been most active in pointing to the irreversible seriousness of bringing home the risk of this widespread antibiotic resistance. Now we are going to change this Regulation. It has fallen, not one, not two, but three state judgment, the Supreme Court, the EFTA Court. We've been violating our legal obligations, against the deal. Of course, negotiations should be held. Since we've already put them on the other side, we have to keep them. What I think may be positive in what we're talking about here and now, this bill, is at the top. A marine and agricultural minister has said that it will really be put in an effort to investigate as well as to become the products we import. I don't know how to do that. I can't quite figure it out, because this fine man I'm going to get to refer to here, Karl G. Kristinsson, says that it really takes a long time to find out. Besides the fun part of it, he may be able to tell me that his partner at a Lands hospital was buying frozen chicken in the daytimes, not fresh, but frozen, fresh chicken from Denmark, which was now no trouble for us to move in. However, the homeland was still Thailand. It was in the small print below. You ask yourself. We're here to talk about this as a matter of interest to consumers. We'll have a competition. We'll have meat and products that will be far less expensive than what is going on in general and on the market. Most people in this room say, of course we'll just pick Icelandic. But here's the competition, and who can only choose for themselves. I say, who now would be that who will certainly choose the cheapest product? It's those who buy the noodle package on at 25 bucks. for their children because they don't make ends meet every month and buy imported chicken chicken with probably Thai origin. What are we doing to ensure that the source is secure? That we don't really get the product somehow on the back door where the country's origin is something other than what the law is supposed to be, and we're going to follow through here? I'd just like to point out a good article, by permission of the president, by Karl G. Kristinsson, whose name is ◯ No one knows what has happened before he has lost: ▪ Icelanders enjoy having the lowest rates of antibiotic resistance in Europe and therefore have not known how serious the consequences of antibiotic resistance can be. On November 5, 2000, by permission of the president, an article in The Lancet Ineffectious Diseases identified the burden of disease caused by the major bacterial resistant bacteria in Europe that the results showed in 2015 - think - that antibiotic resistance could be attributed to 33110 deaths. 874,541 lost, good life. This corresponds to 6.44 deaths and 170 lost, well over 100,000 inhabitants in the European Union, in the EEA region. Iceland, on the other hand, is best off from this comparison, or with 0.3 deaths, a loss of 5.2 years in a 100,000 inhabitants. So I say, a respectable president: You can always do better. I know we have to stick to our commitments and all that, so it's not about a wealthy park to cry in terms of that. Still, it is sad that we have a sovereignty, but in reality we do not have one. And the reason why we say, " No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Who was he again? ' Would we be embarrassed and thrown out of the inner markets? Maybe, I don't know. I'll let me doubt it. I don't think we're that big and big in it. But would we be thrown out of the inner markets? This is the main reason why we make guarantees as much as possible, like the highest. A marine and agricultural minister has, in effect, said that when it comes to importing these products, we try as much as possible to have any doubt that we will fight with point and eggs against the fact that this will happen to be the case, this antibiotic resistance, and in fact, all over Europe. But you also ask yourself, " Why shouldn't it be just the same here? ' What are we so great about? Maybe nothing will bite the Icelanders? Is it where the good old national pride comes from that they just don't bite us when people are falling apart because of this horror all around us? No, it's probably not gonna bite us. Anyway. Icelandic farmers, especially sheep farmers, have not rode a fat horse in terms of survival. We have done very little to keep our business in check. And with the arrival of this new import on raw meat it will certainly not improve. So I'm going to challenge the government. We're going to have to protect Icelandic products better and have some precautions against looking after our sheep, our fresh lamb, just out of the window because everyone's giving up growing them. I could have rather imagined that we would be able to build up the powerful food product that we would be self-sustained, not necessarily to rely on anyone else. We have every opportunity to grow almost everything. Our green excellent energy, which is probably supposed to be selling out of nowhere and through the wind, into Europe's electricity market, as the law expects. We could, for example. Come to meet vegan farmers. We can subsidize the energy. We can have a giant greenhouse. We can be self-sustained. We can sell out the most healthy and clean product. We can be proud to have actual products that do not have all these bacteria and hemorrhoids. For fun, I'm going to add at the end that I've been told about Icelanders who have entered the Land Hospital ▪ National College Hospital and, for example, from European countries. Just eating the wonderful steaks in Spain that I've eaten myself, soft and juicy and certainly nothing wrong with them and all the Spanish just live and all that. I don't know how many people have jumped up because they've just had to pass through a Campylobacter and all these infections. But this fine professor told me that when it came to checking, we probably all had these bacteria in us after eating them from other places. I was surprised. In fact, I was talking with him today because I wanted to put myself in the middle of something because I feel that he has taken it more seriously to show us how potentially serious and irreversible things could become. We just have to trust that since we're going to be law- abiding and stick to our commitments and our agreements, our surveillance will be strong. I'm going to say again, To at least... We will do everything within our power to try to cope with this disastrous development that has taken place throughout Europe. And more importantly, it is a serious matter that it causes as much stress on Europe's health as on people's health and influenza, tuberculosis and HIV combined. These are facts. Can you imagine? So I'm just saying, a respectable president: It better be safe to step to the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u119	V.E.G. President. The discussion has been quite good and varied, and this has not been the norm. I would especially like to mention a talk. paritaprevir Empress Níelsson's son in this context, who made a pretty good impression because we don't want to be lawbreakers. That's right, we don't want to. It is natural, therefore, that we have to answer in some way that we have been sentenced to the Supreme Court to take it up to import unheated meat. I don't want to call it raw or fresh because frozen meat is, yes, raw too, and we don't know how fresh the meat is that will be brought in even if it's frozen, it can have completely dried up many times, we don't know anything about it. That is why we need to use the phrase "unheated meat " about what we bring in. But today the impact of this matter on consumers has little to say on the subject, but it certainly has a far - reaching effect. All of this has an impact on farmers. This affects the agricultural industry, which is 20,000 people, and it affects consumers too. And what do consumers have a right to do? Yes, consumers have the right to be offered a quality product that is not infected in one way or another. The consumers have the right to engage in a product that is not such a devastating one. I want to know that in Europe, 33,000 people are killed each year by hypoglycaemic bacteria. If we took it across Iceland, there'd be 22 people a year. There are, therefore, a number of factors that need to be avoided. Hence, we naturally need to take some measures not to become the victim of some of these. They've been talking about it rather lightly - we have very delicate strains, i.e. The animals that have been down here for centuries are therefore very sensitive to external diseases, and I think of a very recent example of what happened, a horse fever that came up here because dirty anger was introduced into my mind. What a fine example this is of how our strains are sensitive to bacteria and exposed to diseases that may come here! In fact, the report on page 30 contains a text that could have been written yesterday, April 1. He reads so, with permission of the chief. President: There is a possibility that the customs authorities will have trained dogs in customs monitoring that could smell meat that will bring tourists to the country's main destinations, such as the Leifs station and the Seyolors. This would prevent the import of meat which is not produced legitimately and which may be associated with animal diseases. Actually, it's a wonderful sentence. The writer may not have realized that it takes about a year and a half to choose and train a dog to smell unwanted things. In fact, this too is in rather great opposition to the Supreme One. Secretary of finance, the time I've had a word with him on customs care, there's very little interest in customs. On the other hand, if this is an example or something of a change of mental attitude in that regard, it is very good. But it's going to take between a year and a half, and I understand that the arrangement we're accepting, if it's approved at the council, will be effective on September 1. Then the drug dog or the meat dog will not be born, and then they will be trained and ready. I also see that there was a group called out of this which did not have a formal role or position and did not come to a conclusion under control. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. I was wondering what this group would have done, if he had only been a minister like this to sell or if he had contributed something to this work here. But I would like to continue talking about the fact that we have to make sure that consumers in Iceland can go to good products, to ensure that in this country goods and good products will be brought. The track frightens a little because there has been a transfer of meat into Iceland -- now there is no novelty to import meat, it's been importing quite a lot of meat for the past five years, most because Icelandic farmers have not been able to escape - large amounts of meat from Spain and Germany, but in both countries, it's a very high use of antibiotics that could result in resistance to multi-drug resistant bacteria. We also don't know if any of the pieces of meat that have been brought here were fed on genetically modified food. We don't know. So we need to think about this. We also need to think again, for on page 32, the president's permission says: It can be assumed that consumers will eat less than 900 million. K. a year I'm not so sure, top dog. Mr President, this is correct, unless we bring in the merchants too. It's not enough to import meat, it won't be cheap by importing it. With the experience we already have of importing agrienvironmental products, even though it is short and not very large, it suggests that we also need to import shoppers. Now, the entire teeming body has gone into question with the state and received an improvement of $3 billion, which you have not seen to be kept out of the store. Prices were dropped to the sheep's farms on their products two years ago, about 30% and 10%, respectively. There was no reduction in consumers. A few weeks ago, it occurred from one fine deputy that this dose fell into the pockets of a decomposed plant that was letting death out of its shell. This shows that this way, this respect chain from the import, and the basket in the store, is quite long and hard. It's not good to keep an eye on all of her. This has been very popular with agricultural products. They talk about the wonderful experiences that came from paying tolls on peppers, grapples, and tomatoes. It's an amazing experience. On page 32, says the president's permission: ▪ In 2012 the production of these species had increased by about 60% since 2001, to the height of the population, would this not be a factor? I might be told -- while the growth in other species was only 5%.◯ This is exactly the point, because it was so convenient for everyone to put on a proletariat, gurgle, and tomatoes. And that's when farmers were making it, and they were just for peace. Then there was a yoke on everything else and a long line of carbon - related tracks, and we don't know how the product was made. You see, being a responsible consumer has become harder and harder today. You have heard a lot of shocking reports that people who are picking up vegetables south of Europe are sexually abused when they are not picking up vegetables. It's almost in the human room situation. We've been importing some frozen chicken from Denmark. We're no closer to whether that chicken is Danish or not, and if I know correctly, Danir has the rule that if 30% of what's in the bag is danced, it's moved out as Danish, i.e. Thus, the whole bag, the meat, may be from Thailand, where farm equipment is not exemplary and slaves from Myanmar are responsible for their work. Then I'll say again, it's hard to be responsible consumer. Very. So we need to be careful of such points, for this bill, of course, we are opening up the possibility that far more products are being brought in than ever before. As I say, we know nothing of their origin. It gets us a little bit off right now, I've warned this before, that our origin here in this country is not good enough and while it's not good enough, we're very difficult to demand a very clear origin from another source. Then there is one thing that is confusing the matter. It's, for example. The story of a pig born in Finland. He's moved to Poland to grow up. He's slaughtered in Germany, moved to Finland and he gets a Finnish passport. We do not always know the source of the goods we buy. This requires a natural high degree of import, to eat suspensions in Iceland. As I traced earlier, history is not quite exemplary because we've been choosing products from countries that produce cheap products, but it's very antibioticy and we don't know anything about the animals of which the meat is of which the meat is brought here. All of this shows that it is difficult, and we need to be careful, and we do not do so by buying a dog in April to let him smell it in September. We're good to go. That won't do. Since then, it can be pointed out that each year, large quantities of meat products have been confiscated on the border in Iceland, both in Leifs Station and in the Seyder. In many cases, that meat has been unhesitated, not very fresh, when it is confiscated. That meat has reached the border between Asia and Eastern Europe, since we do not know whether there are any diseases in animals and do not know what kind of animals have lived before it was slaughtered. So it's not a simple matter. I can't see in the bill, even though I haven't read it, that they're trying to pay for what I just said earlier. I don't see that we're getting permission, for example - now we're going to have to apply to the European Union for permission on Tuesday after the next week to get a plug in and get electricity - we're going to need to be allowed to screened specifically for kampylobacter or salmonella, because they say they've done it before. But as with the recent examples at home, this screening has not completely worked, it is not unconvincing. In view of both the biodiversity of the Icelandic consumers, we will have the natural requirement that in this document, which will have a major impact in the past, everyone will be able to be reasonably safe with themselves, i.e. both of those who compete with this absorbed production, since farmers are expected to be the only group of society I can quickly remember in a competitive or competitive manner. I remember, for example. not by insurance companies or others, e.g. Pants, I don't remember that. So there are a lot of things to do on the bill. I don't see how it's done that we can be completely fearless. I expect that and I hope to do it. A committee involved in the treatment of this problem has a problem. But maybe I'll find out about it in the second speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u120	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for reviewing all the dangers we face as consumers. All of this is a measure of danger. There's danger when tourists come here. There is danger with food intake. It's not safe when you transfer vegetables. There's danger when you move in angry. Everything's true. But what should we do with the facts, i.e. that we must get out of this unfortunate state? Isn't that right? And is this bill also improving security in various ways? Are we not even making things better than they already are? These are key points to my mind. I'm very much in favor of Icelandic food production, and I'd be very sorry if this had a negative impact on the competition of Icelandic food production. True, I don't believe it does, but I'm not the man who would want her to go anywhere and compete with the subsidized agricultural equipment abroad. I'm not there. I've never been. Granted, there is another debate about how humans will react to it. What is right here is a bill where you try to deal with the various dangers of importing food and meat and other products. We're responding. Is there anything else we can do? Can we in this unfortunate state start waiting for some dog? No, we can't. In what other ways can we act rather than contribute this fine bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u121	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for this answer. I don't agree with him that the bill is trying to improve the situation. That is what I said earlier about the danger of this situation: We need to take action that works. And no, we can't wait for some dog, that's why we were supposed to raise him 20 months ago so he'd be ready for September 1st. But don't start thinking about him now. Hence, we were also required to take in more of the measures outlined in this fine report. It all indicates that men suddenly woke up to a bad dream and then said: "We're about to start a bill that takes effect on September 1. What can we do at one time in death, trying to fix this in a way that some expression is on? But there's just no face on this, is there? I'm sorry, Senator. I kind of feel like it's this report that it's worked in death. It says here about the round trip of a minister who had left in the fall to meet with those who are the worst in the way of this, farmers. I don't know if it was to be called a consultation or something else, and I don't know what came out of it unless farmers had certainly shared their frustrations with the Minister, who is, as it were, fine. But I say again, 'I can't see, boy.' Senator, this is an early intervention. It's said that there's a plan and a plan to do something in the future, and MAST is supposed to get some money, but it's all too little, too late, it looks like it's too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u122	V.E.G. President. There's a deposit on salmonella here. There's an up-to-date surveillance for Campylobacter, both for foreign meat and for imported meat. There's a lot of things being done. We're in a hurry. If you think you can do better, then what? paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, they just suggest some suggestions in the handling of the case for the council and maybe make a good bill even better. It's possible, I can't rule it out. Hv. A senator also asked about this task group that I was leading, and he wondered what he was doing, but he did not come to a specific conclusion. Of course, this group had meetings with the Ministry and the Minister. This group included representatives of stakeholders, farmers, from the Labour Associations and men could observe what was being done, suggest what to try in conversations with the European Union, etc. In this respect, this group was involved, although they did not have a formal role and should not give any particular conclusion, in order to be informed. I'd like to finally agree with what. Senator. Of course, I'm worried. I'm worried about the welfare. I'm generally concerned about wholesome products. I want to do everything I can to make things better. I know it will never be perfect, not as we allow people to move between countries and from one country to another. However, to ensure the best possible security in relation to the agreements we have made in order to keep and follow, I believe that I am very important. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to get there. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u123	V.E.G. President. In case of a moment. A senator would like to know what we middle class can do if we were to get the power and authority, and we just need to get into the government and then he'd find out what we can do if we got the chance. Hopefully, that won't be long. I deeply respect the fact that this informal group met with some representatives of the group and the town council without making any conclusions. But I say again in spite of these words of the senator: When reading this piece of paper, I can't see, at least not that I myself am fearless and confident, that everything here has been tried out of the way of our contracts, as it were. A senator expressed it. I believe that we have had and have had and should now, especially while this bill is to be treated, to continue applying on the European Union to get our special status so that we have additional details to study for various diseases. Let's not forget that, huh? A senator, that we are eating here at the European Union for decades, used technical obstacles to import agricultural products into the European Union. It was all small attention and new rules every day to prevent us Icelanders from transporting agricultural products to the European Union. I don't see any basis for trying to fight this same relationship in order to protect both people and cattle in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u124	Madam President. It's been very interesting to watch the discussions on this fine subject today. If you're supposed to say, "Well, what do you call this political bitch that's moved here?" This is a strong fear that if we so little as little as respect the contract commitments we have undertaken in our Convention on the European Economic Aggression Convention. We're done in the matter. The frozen meat that we had on the imported meat was not considered a chemical preventative, as it has been demonstrated, including of the Agrienvironment experts here, that it has very little to say against the diseases that are best discussed, such as multi-drug resistant bacteria. She just doesn't have anything to say about it. These words are far more associated with politics, which is becoming all too common, both here and elsewhere, the political fear. Politicals: ◯ Us against them -- That everything that comes in there is bad and dangerous and must be avoided by any means necessary, but whatever we do, in one of those past desires, is absolutely great and above everything and in all doubt. This debate - I'm not just talking about some agricultural product - is quite unhealthy in democratic societies today. Dangerous, I'd say. This is the name of the people's treasuries, even of the people. The company's been doing it here today. Of course, we should take care of all available measures, with the legal provisions we have, to the wholesomeity of the food being brought in here. We are to take care of what we can do. But we also need to realize that we have applied in our international agreements to respect EU food monitoring, which operates by the same rules as we do here ourselves. It is this mutual respect which is the basis for free trade between countries, not only with agricultural products in the country, but also with our own agricultural products into the European market - and, of course, for our interests, marine products into the European market. It is the core of free trade through our involvement in the European Economic Area that we respect the quality monitoring we use here and the quality monitoring done within the European Union that we do business with - that we respect one another's rules and arrangements in order to ensure unscrupulous, immediate business between countries. When the members of this hall weigh on the basis of the European Community work in this way, building business in Europe in this way, that we should question the food management we are doing and question the ability of the nations to which we are doing business in order to do it, we are weighing off free trade in the European Economic Area. Then we have entered a course, which was actually done well in the speech of each one. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, that what really lies right here is nothing but the will to build technical business barriers with agricultural products which are illegal according to the commitments we have taken at the EEA Convention. That's exactly the core of the free trade agreements we make, especially the European Economic Convention: that we are not building nonstatutory, technical business barriers to protect goods at home. That's what this case is all about. This is, in the final analysis, the question of whether the members of this hall are in favor of the business agreements we've made, prepared to work at all the things we've agreed to do. It does not require anything of us to show ourselves to be subjugated or not to care for our own interests. Of course we do. But we respect the agreements we have made. We're under law. It is an amazing relief that is discussed here in the discussion of having us judged for the future. We are referred to here as having every option to delay the recording of this bill for some vague purpose, actually. So the store has no place to say: If she chooses to sue us, she will only dear us. Then we'll just see if there's any snot. A senator put it today, and the store is going to thrive on a legal application by the Icelandic state. Of course, here in this hall, there are high court officials speaking in this manner, deliberately becoming involved in some tatting and entanglements, talking about the violations under a rose here in this hall, saying plainly from this chair: Of course, this is not an acceptable presentation. But these are, of course, the characteristics of this political bitch that we see more and more in all the Western world, this ethnic monstrosity, this deity. There is a growing tendency toward isolation, for protective thinking. It's irresponsible in a society like Iceland. I think there are few countries that have as much of a free international deal as we do. And I don't think there is any agreement we've made as a sovereign nation, either sooner or later, which is more important to us than the exactly European Economic Convention. It is incredibly irresponsible for members of this hall to talk about this agreement as lightly as it has been in our discussion today as it is tonight. It's really a disgrace to watch this. It is because of my sense of risking much higher interests than the import interests of agriculture, and this is the interest in marine exporting products into the European Economic Area. It's fine just to bear in mind that we're moving out of here to a good level of 300 billion a year, to most of our most important market. I think it's good to keep that in mind. Then, of course, I think it's a little awkward, really, how little the senators who practice this language have on the quality of Icelandic agricultural products. We've seen and had the experience through the vegetable industry of free importing agrienvironments. And we've seen Icelandic consumers choose the Icelandic product beyond the import when the Icelandic product offers. We have also seen the benefits of the competition made by free import of vegetables. Vegetarians have increased much less than other agricultural products since the removal of customs protection here 15 years ago, actually less than the index price at the same time, considerably less. Of course, this is an advantage for competition. This is what we want, to be able to protect both domestic agricultural interests and domestic agricultural production through direct support of the article, but also to allow consumers to benefit from the benefits of competition through the more efficient price of the relevant product. I am convinced that although these changes are being made, there will obviously be an increased import of agrienvironmental products that Iceland will choose a domestic agricultural product over the import. I'll do it myself. I prefer Icelandic lamb much more than import, and I beg to buy domestic production in general, if available, and at a reasonably comparable rate. But I'm ready to pay a higher price. I think Icelandic farmers will do very well in competition for import, with a more efficient product development, with the continued quality production of such an Icelandic agricultural equipment, and, of course, by ensuring the correct origin, which at the end of the day is the most important thing for consumers. Put simply: This is a good thing. We are finally fulfilling our contract obligation to the European Economic Area, to abandon this repeated violation of the agreement that we have been working on in this case. We need to do so properly, while at the same time ensuring that this trend does not pose a threat to Iceland's consumers. It would be a nice custom, and it was once with us as a nation, that we made a great deal of living up to the agreements we made, according to our word, that we were worthy of trust, but did not attempt to break the commitments we personally and willingly made as a sovereign nation. It follows that responsibility for the sovereign nations. When we make a deal, we do our part - because we naturally expect other nations to fulfill their commitments to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u125	Madam President. I am not secretive that I was disappointed with the use of a talk. Senator. He comes up in the pantret of the Generals, and he calls for responsible discussions, armed stickers that say: ◯1 obedient, the Copapolis, the nationalistspulaism, and the ◆ insurgents. What kind of speech is that? Is this the responsible debate as long as possible? A senator himself called for? I was not responsible. So I advertised it. It was also said that the quality of Icelandic farming was terrified of people, and the natural song of vegetables was sung once more. It's so convenient to have farmers who produce grouses and tomatoes and peppers on top of the shelf, and there'll be no development in that branch, except for some salad and a little bit of spices. It's actually very comfortable for people who run the market, I don't deny it. But this does not benefit consumers, nor does it benefit the producers. So I'm gonna ask why. First, a senator of this responsible discussion, which he wanted others to do, whether he intends to practice himself in some way, and how he really feels about this case here, for example. in my case earlier, it suggested that there was no ill preparation - and I am not leaving it. It's like there's a man in a state of death that's overworked at the last minute to stir something up to get him around the corner. And I'm sure it's true that we've been judged on this matter. No one's doubting that. No one is complaining about it. But I ask why. A member of Parliament: Is he sure that the matter as it is prepared here will do us enough to reach the goals we want, i.e. that there will be secure goods to consumers, economics, and safe, and it will not be the result of any Icelandic agriculture as sensitive as it is - and that I am primarily talking about the livestock - will be harmed there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u126	Madam President. Of course, I'm terribly sorry I caused it. A senator disappointed. Sometimes, though, it is good to be honest about things. Isn't it just English? Speaking about this matter, as is it really being discussed? It's a panic attack. The risk of transmission of multi-drug resistant bacteria is discussed. There is never a single word in talks here mentioned that the greatest threat we are facing is the fact that the World Health Organization has considered this to be a serious health problem, is our own use of antibiotics, our use of ourselves, not our intake through meat. The second greatest danger comes from tourists. I haven't heard much talk about cryo-related travellers. That would probably not be a very good development, at least not for tourists. It's a people's unit. It's a panic attack. This is always evident in the discussion at the very end of the discussion that technical business restrictions on agricultural products are being called to the fore. That's a very important thing. I'd much rather, in the responsible discussion here in this hall, we'd take up the discussion on our support systems. I strongly support our support of Icelandic agriculture and Icelandic agricultural production. I would much rather prefer that we use their support far more in farmers' direct payment, with increasing flexibility, increasing freedom to control their own production than, for example. Through customs protection, much of which is our support or protection to the article today. I think it would be much better, both for farmers, for agriculture and for consumers. It is only certain that consumers have benefited from the growth in vegetables, both in prices and in products selection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u127	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has managed to have one right point in this counter, see that we take very little antibiotics through carnivores - because the animals we cultivate get very little antibiotics. So it's quite accurate for the senator and for the record. What, though, is the condition of the people in wanting to go to the earth with caution in this grand interest? There's no easy idea that this is a big deal of interest, and I hope it is. A senator would agree with me. Because this involves not only the 20,000 people'activities but also the fact that they are fed with wholesome food to eat. But now I'd like to ask. Senator: He does not do anything with the caution of scientists here in Iceland who have precisely warned against importing in e.g. An unhealed meat, unless it is determined to be screened so that it doesn't quit? [[The president calls.]] Does the senator minimize these cautions or warnings? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u128	Madam President. In this discussion, I do not approach food safety lightly. I just trust the Ministry Specialist who says we're not threatened by this case. And I trust them, and I think I know something pretty well. A minister would not be here to present this matter in this room if he felt that the import was a threat to the nation. I'm just pretty sure he wasn't having this case before the council if he really thought he was. I trust, like the highest. Minister, the Ministry's advice. And I believe that the measures presented here for intensive monitoring and that we will use the resources we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u129	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I have participated in this discussion from the beginning and have come here several times and spoken up. Senators have different opinions on this matter, and the discussion has been perfunctory in that respect, but it took an entirely new course with a speech at the same time. paritaprevir The son of Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who says that we members of the Central Party speak of the matter lightly, national or national polygamy and the people's coven. Now I want to point it out. A senator wrote to me that during my presentation, I referred to reviews received from the Farmers Association, the National Association of Sheep, the Land Association of Cows, and others. This was the main part of my presentation, and I also referred to the scientific essays in this regard. I just want to ask you what. A senator to see if the Bjonding Association of Iceland on this matter is a people's business? Is the statement of the Land Association of Sheeps and Pa·pi·ulʹism? Is the statement of the National Association of Cows, National Pockets, and Patriots? And can you say the same about the body of dairy and carnivorous companies? Is the lawsuit of all these people, eh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u130	Madam President. There is nothing new about the presentation of the National Association of these imports getting involved in the problem of food safety and technical business barriers. However, I did not call it a people's ills. I was referring to the discussion I listened to in this room. I'm fully aware of them. It's a people's unit. There is a need for fear. It's about -- well, I would say that at least the facts are very freely known about the dangers involved. And this points to research, the claims of the Ministry on how safe this really is. It is good to remember that in all this talk of the grand disaster that we are facing as a nation. In fact, I always find it interesting to wonder, " Why don't we stand the warning to Iceland that we don't travel to Europe because these are such dangerous foods that are produced there? ' Of course, this is a matter of caution. We've got a follow-up here. We are based on a comparable monitoring, the same food law as the other EU Member States. This includes no danger in the opinion of these same experts. It is always forgotten to mention in this context, as with the multi-drug resistant bacteria, that the greatest threat is due to non-contraction of food, i.e. our own antibiotic use and tourists who come to America.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u131	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He mentioned in his speech that prospective middle class members and others are weighing the basics of the European Community and free trade. I'd like to ask them what. Senator: How does he get it to succeed when in the European Union, he has a European Union warrant according to Article 114. The Lisbon Treaty, which is the European Treaty on how they will act in order to set specific rules, special rules, without preventing the 114 Regulation. How can the presentation made by the Central Class have made it possible for these bases of the European Union to work when allowed in the European Union itself, but this is not permitted within the EEA Convention? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That may be the point of the matter and the language we should have used here to demonstrate our unique position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u132	Madam President. Thank you. A senator answers the second. That's the point, isn't it? We did not agree with the EEA agreement and therefore cannot apply it. This may be a little bit like the third energy discussion, that people would like to stand here in this room and renegotiate, even the same parties who made the contracts at their time, about the way it is taken. I'm just talking about us respecting our international commitments in the exact same way that we expect our business nations to respect their commitments to us. As soon as we take up the technical business ventures in an illegal way, we undermine the business agreements we have made. Most important, the European Economic Convention is far more important and more important than the standard business contract as such. It's like that, of course. Contracts don't mean nothing if parties don't respect them. [[The president calls.]] Our attempts to shun the commitments we have undertook undermine the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u133	Madam President. It is so that all nations are standing by their agriculture. Agriculture and food security are fundamental factors in individual independence. I want my second speech to address the interests of the government, the government, on the subject. I asked the highest. Minister of foreign affairs to see if he had applied political measures on the European Union. He said he'd called the European Union foreign Mogherini and discussed the matter with her. I have to say, for a small island nation like Iceland, the interests of this case are much bigger than that of a single phone call. We keep in mind that the European Union and our agreement, the EEA, is the responsibility of a foreign minister and so this is his business. It has been shown that it is very difficult to find out what happened at that meeting. It has been searched, but it has not been passed. It is also true to assume that a person has a specific question mark on how determined he is. The minister of foreign affairs was trying to get some kind of political landing on the case that would be favorable to us. It can be said to the highest. During a discussion at the General Assembly of 2006, a minister said that he saw no special reason to protect from customs or such agriculture, such as poultry and pig farms. He also said that he wondered if it would be wise for us to define our interests in the agricultural field according to these criteria. Clearly, the highest. Minister has a preconceived opinion of at least part of the agricultural or agricultural industry in the country, which I don't think is a suitable introduction to this kind of interest. It's at the top of the world. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has wanted to demean and even lower customs protection into pig and chicken farms. I ask if he is the right person to promote our unique position in that regard. It is also of interest to consider the comments of the Basis in this regard. They actually say that they have serious doubts about the facts about the European Union in discussion. They also say their comments: ▪ How disappointing it is that agrienvironmental ministers give up the fight to uphold the right of our Icelanders to protect human health and Icelandic farms! The high responsibilities of a minister are high, and it is illogical that the government should at the same time speak of promoting Icelandic food production and suggesting a history of action programme to increase food security and to allow the import of raw non-frosted meat, eggs, and unsolved milk. The bill is contrary to the declared national objective of reducing the number of food - borne medical events. Icelanders have clean and healthy livestock and are fortunate in the low number of food infections here. It is our direct duty to maintain that fine position. I agree, Madam President, unfortunately, that we don't have enough information about how strong the security was on behalf of the State Department and are fully aware that there is a need to be placed. Finally, I would like to quote the former prime minister Ólafur Jóhannesson, who said in the diplomatic language that an agreement would be excluded unless our circumstances were absolutely reasonable. [[The president calls.]] I certainly believe that these words apply today in this vital matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u134	A respectable president. Of course, the material discussion will be limited to 1 Corinthians. On this matter, but I think that, as anyone can be sure, it's only possible. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wazowski's son, a conquistador, who spoke in a way that has not been generally done today, was that the main line that can be read from what has been said today is that humans will be as careful as possible. Public opinion of these matters, which, in fact, comes into play. In a March study of Gallup, over 60% of the population is opposed to being authorized to import unheated raw meat. The majority of the nation do not feel that way just that. That's what worries you. They believe that the existing bill will not go as far as it will be possible to protect our individual position in terms of the purity and health of domestic agriculture. It is our duty to go as far as we can. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Þorsteinn of Víglundsson - although I would, unfortunately, it was very bad in many ways and the self - exaltation that it provided the basis for a special view alone - a requirement for humans to accept what they promised. That's what I think the general public is doing to us by the message sent in Gallup two weeks ago, that we get up on our feet of the case as far as any possible, we're going to look for all the ways that we can be, and that people get close to it so that if the matter goes through basically as it is now, we're going to have to get more time. In some way, buying out time is needed to ensure the necessary defenses. No matter whether we look at the 15 teams in the government Action Programme proposed or the funds to MAST in the government budget until the next five years, the preparation has been completed. I'm afraid we're going to be taken thoroughly into the sack on September 1. I hope that the committee will take this matter to a very beneficial conclusion and review and that it will be as careful as possible. I think if you're well aware, you'll find ways that everyone can live reasonably on and the majority of people in the country will be happy with. However, that is not the way we can get in the currently existing bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u135	V.E.G. President. This discussion has been very good. People have debated their views honestly. On the other hand, there was one speech that was completely uncool and full of low-level labels. Instead of discussing such matters, those who participate in the discussion were distracted. It's called in a sports language to go to the man, not the ball. It's not a good idea, but I'm not going there, and we're not going there. We will continue to discuss what is involved. This is about how consumers in Iceland can take on safe food. It's all about farming here, i.e. Bum, do not be exposed to undesirable influences as sensitive as they are to external influences. It's about how the situation has been made so solid that just the conditions I recited earlier are reliable. As we have seen, we feel that this is not the case. While we are convinced that this is not the case, we will continue to point out that we think it is more desirable that there will be a time when we will be able to prepare for the execution of these laws, that we will be prepared to handle the project in due time. We have said that we are not convinced that this is according to the evidence. So we must make it very clear, even though it is called some evil name, which I do not feel inclined to repeat. We believe that the process is too late and that the arrangements given are not enough to get the goal of the discussion before, i.e. that consumers are going for safe food and that products will not be exported here which will have an adverse effect on Icelandic agriculture. We feel that, as it is tore, the matter doesn't meet that requirement. As I mentioned in the previous talk, I hope that when this matter is addressed to the committee, it will receive a very careful consideration. I expect the members of the committee to listen attentively and take note of the indications and comments that will definitely be presented in the case and that you are not afraid to make a decision even if someone thinks that it is out of place because of a different motive, as was the case under trial. We must just, those of us who are in here, try to be careful that the matter is not well put out, that we must take it out of ourselves, even though there are some who are small enough to rip the matter out of the perennial channels it has been for all day and turn it into a personal mess. However, there is neither dignity nor raising in any other way. Madam President. I reiterate what I've said before, I hope that the matter is very carefully and carefully discussed in the Committee, and that it comes back in a better costume than it is now, better tore, and that the necessary action has been added to it which may result in meeting the conditions most of us have had today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u136	Madam President. I've been here giving talks all day, missing speeches from 15 minutes to seven because it's the day of someone else today, and I began to see a powerful documentary about the invisible women who are held by someone. Then come in and listen to the last speaker I understand, and I was getting the information that was so brilliantly pleased with the talk of vice president at the exorbitant, who apparently returned and rocking the boat. That's good, it tells me that he's just been reviewing the facts and saying things as they are. I have no doubt that he has overstepped the tremendous interest it takes for Iceland to follow the judgment the EFTA Court issued and to import food, the language we speak of as the fresh meat. V.E.G. This bill has been produced by a marine dignitary and agri-gri-gri-gritor minister. I listened to his speech as well as others earlier today, and I wanted to commend a minister for a talk that was extensive, well - handled, and discussed the facts. It's all in here that I criticize very much this government, that it's a conservative management, I don't know if there's a more difficult mixture, but that's the way it is. No one needs to tell me that this government is conducting a case designed to threaten the national food security, food security, or farmers. In this matter, we support the government. We will. - I'd love to, Madam President, if it were closed up on this side just while talking aside is quite brilliant. It's important to keep in mind, when we discuss this matter, the major interests of Iceland, the Icelandic economy, to follow this up. This is important, not just for agriculture, but for another export, such as. marine products, which include The foundation for this passage was gone in its own time. It was then weighed and evaluated by the interests and then the legislator of the advance team followed through. The judgment is clear. We've had some cases in recent times and miss where ministers in the government want to choose which decisions they will take, judges outside. I have warned about this in this discussion and in this regard. It's out of the question. But I'd like to commend the highest. The minister of the prehistoric discourse, which is at the same time a very important solution to explain why this route is gone. It's been reported well. The Ministry has been working on this with specialists and it has been given a very clear explanation, e.g. with antibiotic resistance. It is natural for people to be afraid, and we must listen to them. We have to touch it. We need to address it and say, "You don't have to be afraid. And with the situation now, this bill does not change anything about the current import of fresh meat products. We must also take this into account. We make it clear and clear in Upstate: We want to disable the protection of agricultural products. On the other hand, we would like to have the non-inferiority protection of some 171⁄219 billion possible for agriculture to go to support the agriculture. It's not that we want to subtract support from agriculture, we just want to do it on the basis of free trades, free markets, and at the same time support and make the support more efficient for farmers. Sometimes I feel like the agricultural system we've come up with, a lot of things are done for the system, not farmers themselves, not consumers themselves. It is as if humans were losing weight instead of having more specific support. That is another topic. But what I consider important in this is that we listen to the skeptics that have been heard and tried to answer. It's done in this bill. I listened to the talks here today with all the good people I really respect and gave them their tips. However, these are all indications that have been put in place and were protected by Iceland by the EFTA Court, both in early and late stages. These are all the tips we've tried and stated. I don't doubt that all the agricultural ministers, whether they were the advance party, the left green, or the Independence Party, were just trying to maintain these anti-communications for Icelandic agriculture on the basis of the EEA Convention. It hasn't worked out. We've been going through the legal process by signing the EEA deal. That's why this is gone, which is on the bill, and everything has been mapped. An important action plan has also been developed in my opinion that has to do with consumer protection and better meanings. I think it is extremely important that the surveillance and information are so much better made than is available today, both in local and international foods. This applies to both foreign and domestic products, all for consumers and for increased transparency. It will support so many other things, especially the growth of innovation. I am convinced not only of a short period of time at the Agricultural Ministry but also of 20 years at a council, this year 20 years since I first sat down at a council, in Icelandic agriculture, there are tremendous opportunities. The basics of Icelandic agriculture are good, and we can move forward, including On the basis of free markets, open markets, and confident that this very growth in Icelandic agriculture is now being allowed to feed even more. Of course, our agriculture still needs support. No question about it. For the Action Programme, this includes: Talk about extra insurance, better food markings, everything I agree with. We want to reduce the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria, and we also need to clean up some of the local stuff. We know that antibiotics have been detected in Icelandic foods, and we need to see what we can do. I know that many Icelandic farmers who have faced the challenge of using antibiotics are looking into all ways and finding out in the best way that their lips get even better and avoid antibiotics to get clean. This is something we should help farmers with, and we do it through research, by promoting research and development related to Icelandic agriculture, and we are also to promote and support ministers in bringing one powerful food policy and preferably uniting agricultural and marine resources with the aim of promoting food production and research. I'd like to say there's a lot to agree with in this bill, and there's more that unites us in this matter than divides. When it comes to this matter, I have a measure of caution, and I agree with it, and I have a clear understanding that people want to do well. However, fearability must not be used to keep the land closed, to keep personal interest. There's no such thing as this. I don't want to sign it. Nor do we have to go that way. We can go elsewhere, have open markets, fulfill our international commitments, and also support Icelandic agriculture and thus the Icelandic consumers. It gives me a reason, I'm not going to tell you heartbreak, but it's worth thinking about seeing it here in previous talks, especially by the council members, that it's supposed to be a problem. A job commission to build even some fences. There's been reports of deadlines, including... in this matter. It's been tried. For more than 10 years, we have stepped in on the matter, even on the part of a few ministers. The case has been pressed, delayed, and delayed in order to avoid having to fulfill this commitment. It's a serious thing because there's such a lot of stakes hanging on this stick, interests connected with the EEA deal that has been incredibly valuable to us Icelanders, whether in the field of consumer protection, work rights, and so on. We simply cannot afford to live up to our commitments. Of course, we do so with caution. It also shows this bill. We do so, so we have done our homework. That, in fact, is shown to be the case. in the bill. I warn that if there are people here, whatever they are, who are going to take this case and turn it upside down and try to make up some reality that isn't. It has been through every aspect of human existence. As I say, I respect their opinion, but they have been dealt with and answered. Current chief animal surgeon and former hectologists have even It should be noted that the risk should include the antibiotic resistance is not primarily through imported meat, but through tourists. So why don't we focus on it? The plan of action will come on and deal with it. We are responding to that indication, accepting what we need to do in order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. It is not through agricultural products, as has been shown. In recent years, governments, already 2.3 million tourists, can be further criticized by not having done something about this. If humans have this high ambition to defend Icelandic nature, defend Icelandic goods and productions, they would have offered long ago suggestions on how we fit in with the fact that this new industry as a tourism does not pose a threat to food security. Rather, it is possible to ask that question. I'm warning that some of the mountain's reverses I thought were gonna be gone. The head of the professional road committee is suggesting that it should be used, including, The government's strategy for building the great parks, the huge fence that nothing can be brought in, it would be impossible for immigrants to live. Well to mark, immigrants are also farmers, farmers' companies. Not only are the bad, terrible shops, some of those inside the door very close, but they also move companies owned by farmers into foreign foods. It does not mean going to the job of establishing these barriers and fences within the job committee. I'll, sitting on a professional committee, keep an eye on it. The bill on the part of a minister is not offering anything every second. We simply do not have the authority to ask for further postponement, not unless men are afraid to come up here and say very openly: We are not going to follow our international commitments. We are not going to follow the judgment of the EFTA Court. It's different for me before. That is exactly what some have discussed and have welcomed certain judgments from the EFTA Court. Is it, then, just a matter of wisdom on the part of members of Congress, based on what judgment should be done and which ones should not? It's dangerous. What I'm afraid of after the day that I'm going to continue, Mr. President, who well means to answer well and clearly in this discussion, made a good entry into the discussion, is that the treatment of professional workers will be in order to change the situation. It can't happen. There is no reason for us to postpone, as I say, we have no authority to do so. There is still much work to do. There is reason for us to experience, including as I had a chance earlier today for the special cheeses, to be careful when the three government parties, and it seems to me that they will be very supportive of the Central Party, on this matter. We need to enforce our international commitments. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, it needs to be monitored within the job committee at the time of the day's talks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u137	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I heard no better than the senator had heard the speech I gave today, and I can feel sorry for her about it. My speech was about consumers and their interests, in fact. But only then. A senator is informed of this, the vice president of Reunion was not here to shake up at once or at all, but he was wearing a brand - name romance of the cheapest black and personal shit. But I'm not going there. However, I noticed why. A senator is very much interested that we live up to our foreign commitments, such as everyone, that I think, which have been spoken here today. However, the point is that there are some of us here who have thought that this case is not at the point where it will be to ensure the consumers safe products, that it is not at the point where they can be trusted that it does not affect the vulnerable population because of health risks, and therefore we have been talking about the need to sharpen this situation in a professional committee, and I have no doubt whether there is a problem. A senator, mentioned earlier, will be involved. But there are certain actions mentioned in history that are only at the point of view that they will not operate on September 1. when this case is to be taken into account. That's why I'm asking. A member of the council whether she feels that we need to be absolutely sure that we have this matter in the process that it will not harm consumers or producers, that we need to be absolutely clear before we begin a legal approach. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u138	Mr. President. I've worked with him here and anywhere else, including ... fromthecosystems of procreation. I think a more reasonable man, more objective, I never really worked with him. But what is difficult sometimes is that he is so exorbitantly clean and pure. He says things the way they are. It can sting many times. I have no doubt that he has done so here today. I don't think it's an acceptable idea to say that the bill we're discussing on the part of the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers offers a tremendous risk to consumers or Icelandic farmers. I just don't think it's acceptable. I'm in a position of command. Everyone knows what my position is about these government forwards. But the situation here is well worked. I have to take a moral stand on that. My critical stand is that this is the right step, the right step to take now. I fear that on the job board, I will be pressured on all routes - and that's why I'm happy to the highest level. A minister has been listening here - to postpone the case again. And I remind you, we've been putting this case off for over 10 years. It's about time we Icelanders make a commitment, because we have much more to pay than we lose to keep it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u139	Yeah, I'm on top of it. President. I can't help but recommend it. A senator is listening to his vice president's speech and finding out what he was dealing with in this way. Then it will naturally find that he was not at all. But that's another story. But we have to disagree, me and him. A senator, that this case is well prepared for the failure to achieve the results needed for September 1. There are several things that were picked up here today that can be pointed out, all kinds of action you want to take, use custom dogs that have not been bought and trained, which take between one and two years, and so on. There are all kinds of things in here that are, as you say, too late for the butt. There's supposed to be extra money to the Food Agency, but it's not yet started. It's a little bit in this place. We have to disagree, me and you. A senator, that this matter has been prepared to ensure the safety of consumers and manufacturers. And this is not panic propaganda. It's just a conclusion people get by taking note of the document they have here. It's that simple now. And it doesn't matter in itself whether you're in a government or if you're in a position of government. We're in a position of command. We are not trying to help this government in one way or another, not at all. We feel that this is a rather low control, and we have always felt that we are not here to increase it or help her along the way. But this does not change our obligation to the people of the country, whether they are consumers or farmers or farm workers. We don't want their advantage getting worse when this case gets run through like this one's supposed to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u140	Mr. President. We have all kinds of responsibilities, those of us who are here at the council and represent the nation, including the people. to fulfill our international commitments, especially those that are of immense importance to us Icelanders. We also have the obligation to protect Iceland's natural environment, to protect Icelandic agriculture, to support it as best we can, and to keep good care of consumers. You can do so by this way, which is presented here. I warn that men here use dramatic statements - often feeling that they are merely put forth to cause fear, cause wolfism, cause insecurity. [[Up front.]] It is often the feeling of listening to these talks. So I'm warning you, and that's why I'm so happy that it's a verbal input from the highest level. The ocean-wide agricultural minister, filled with information, answers them exactly. These responses were also observed earlier in the previous indications. We have work to do on a professional committee. There's one thing that needs to be very careful about, see if we can be more supportive in our monitoring role, in the information and consumer protection that needs to be very clear in the bill, and of course we're going to do that work. But, of course, this judgment by the EFTA Court is to be observed, as we did in our time with Icesave.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u141	A very impressive president. In view of the problem. In fact, members of both the administrative and the management sector have made the most of their ability to respond. I find it appropriate to look more closely at the comments of the local community on these plans for response and action to address the consequences of this bill. In fact, I won't in this short talk will cover all the comments, but I will tap a large one. It's, for example. On the part of the National Association, it was pointed out that a minister's authority to hide the Food Institute shows us that there is no air at all. It is unclear how or whether these things will work out. And the local community naturally points out that it is more correct to speak of responsibilities that should be met by humans in these matters. It also points out that it will be difficult to confirm that poultry have not been infected by camylobacter during firetime and that there is strong uncertainty about the possibility of applying it, of course, that there is much concern. Because like a dog. paritaprevir Sæmundsson noted earlier today, and there were very striking data, 33,000 Europeans, or Campylobacter infections every year. This is equivalent to approximately 22 Icelanders would pretend for this reason. Hv. paritaprevir Níelsson's Brynjar points out a way to deal with this: The eating of only Icelandic meat and Icelandic foods. I trust each other. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson is well pleased to do so. Of course, I would try to follow that rule and eat Icelandic meat, both cooked and raw, but I would never trust myself to eat foreign foods unless it was very well cooked. And what? paritaprevir In fact, Níelsson's armoured son added the counsel that if people were concerned about these foreign foods, they could only be provided with funds and thus avoid this danger. But we did not succeed in creating other types of infection risk for livestock stocks, and we certainly cannot help but avoid the possibility of developing a high risk of multi-drug resistant organisms. The local community feels that the Ministry's plan is highly weak and timed out. ▪ Be clearly ill, ◯ say the Farmers'organization has a plan as high as possible. Minister has presented himself as a response to his own bill. At another point, it is pointed out that the measures are blunt. It describes doubts about the fact that the matter was brought to full weight. I think there's a reason to have such doubts. They say, 'It's a fallen judgment, and then we have to listen to him.' But that judgment was false, pointing out Stefán Stefánsson, a law professor. Does that mean that there is no need for misjudgment? some may ask. The answer is that this case is of the magnitude - and it is violated in Iceland with this conclusion to the point - that it requires political intervention, that calls for diplomatic and political action that must be meant to show the European Union that we are fully serious about having to obtain an exception and that the action obviously needs to be corrected. Because Icelanders enjoy e.g. does not share the right to protect our production as well as the European Union. If the EEA Convention is to be balanced, the follow-up must be consistent with that and to rely on us to make a requirement for this to be done, over and over again, and the Icelandic agriculture intend to meet stricter, more difficult and more expensive conditions than the European rather than to be protected which is comparable to those enjoyed by European agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u142	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1236, 776th, this is a bill for the change in Iceland's fishing legislation in terms of the control of macroils for the beginning of Icelandic ships' fishing in summer. The bill suggests that the target management will be initiated at macroil fishing, but up until now, control of the stock has held in place the regulations of marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers and allowing permission from the Fish Room, which has been set up for one year, as further in general interest by the bill. In fact, it is long time to adopt such a business - fishing organization from the stock of Icelandic ships between 2005 and 2006. In fact, for years it has been required to assign amulets to the fishing industry, but it has not been the case when it has been noted that significant freedom has been seen in the fishing organization under the annual regulations of the High Commissioner for the Sea, so their organization has some similar features to the amendment of the amendment organization. In general comment on the bill, an explanation of the figures that have occurred in the distribution of financial divisions is attributed to a large deal of conflict in the exchange of markets. The problem was solved by any of the two Supreme Courts of Iceland on December 6, 2018, which agreed to the claim of appeals, two fishing partners, that it would be accepted as a result of the damage to the budget they might have asked for their fishing ships to have been assigned to smaller sources in 2011◯2014 but required by law on hunting outside Iceland's law, No. 151/1996, the so - called ocean fishing. The Supreme Court's decision rests according to 2 mg. Section 5. The fishing industry is obliged to assign a stock share to fish stocks, if a decision is made to limit total resources to the fishing of the stock. If a fishing experience remains continuous at that time, most of it will be based on the fishing experience of ships; otherwise, distribution may be more voluntary according to Article 6. Section 5. The law. The Supreme Court believes that the publication of the Regulation on the Management of Macrotics has responded to the decision on the limitation of total resources and therefore a minister has been subject to criteria for hunting experience in 2011 and is not permitted to consider other sources' views. So the bill also responds to court decisions. A respectable president. This bill is a response to outside situations that are very unusual, where judgment from the Supreme Court is clearly stated that one of the most important crops of the Icelanders has long been in the right eye of law. It is fundamental to my mind to consider the situation and to prepare it for my ministry to correct the understatement, i.e. ..to bring the fishing government into the right condition. Following the court hearings, I decided to appoint a group of judges who would review the importance of the judging and give advice on the decisions that would follow. The group organized three lawyers, who are also experts in fish - control laws. On January 31, this year, the staff came to the opinion of the 31st, the main results of which were that it was mandatory to determine the labor share of macroil at the same time as the permit of the total catch of the next fish for the next season, in the summer of 2019. This would be carried out only in accordance with Regulation 2 mg. Section 5. The fishing industry, which would be assigned to fund divisions based on hunting experience of three of the best fishing periods of the past six years, i.e. in 2013:2018. I draw special attention to what is said in the opinion of the task force that it was issued under Regulation for fishing in 2019, which was based on hunting experience in 20136/2018 would likely result in continued or permanent damage to the country. A minister would end up doing less - assigned damage on the basis of fishing experience in the years leading up to 2011. Such regulations would thus be based on formal adequate recovery but would, in a material way, maintain an unsaturable condition. This is why the task force puts it this way in their report printed as a guide with the bill to Minister, i.e. to those here speaking, it is proper to take the lead in granting him authority, which prevents further implementation of regulations responsible for the State. Surely, all of us agree that there is no way to make such an open check on a government fund. This is the background of the composition of this bill in my Ministry, and it is also important to correct the importance of this bill being treated on time here at the Senate Hall and at what time. A professional health committee. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to step on the bill's main subject. It is the opinion of the service group that I have previously reported that a new law that involves moderate application, change of foreigns, or expectation of requisitions based on legitimate goals and based on material standards would not create the Icelandic State for continued benefits. To facilitate the preparation of possible legislation, several different policy options were in the opinion of the task force. It was noted that each of them had a pros and cons that were more specific. These options would also not be deemed exhaustive but set out in the light of the legal environment and the patterns that could be found in older fish - control legislation. In general comment with the bill, the proposal that the bill contains was one of the staff pointed out. With the bill, a minister is authorized to aim hunting experience at a longer period in the distribution of financial sectors but according to existing law, in the same way as was done in the distribution of resources from the Norwegian-isian silhouette strain. In order to look at the situation under the control of macrotics, there are a number of situations in hunting the Norwegian-islen siled with special control measures prior to the distribution of pan-European sectors. In addition, it recommends that the Supreme Court has considered its value in the light of the Constitution's equal rule, such as the work force. With 1 st. The bill is thus suggested to be assigned to the labor department to fish at macroil, based on their ten best training years of 20083/42018, including both years. It is also noted that if a ship has replaced a ship that has won experience during this period, the ship that replaces it should have the same experience. The bill was presented to the Board of Management Board's consultations, and several comments were made before they were given to the General Assembly. The contents of these statements are explained by the bill, but it is evident that they appear to be different. It is only easy to see that any person entitled to the valuable distribution that the bill would recommend will have an advantage in defending his position and trying to obtain a larger portion of distribution. It is only understandable, but I trust the Council to review views that may be behind them as the administrative limitations of the general lawgiver in handling this case. In a section on the impact of the bill, and in a description of the responses to stakeholders' views on the bill, I aim to deal with these differences of viewpoints and I know that in the activities of the Committee, they will be no less discussed. In fact, I believe it is inevitable that over them must go. On the other hand, I cannot pass this background to call attention to information in general remarks on the macrotype. It reports that the International Oceanographic Research Council, ICES, suggests that in line with the macronography policy of the year 2019 there will be no greater than 318,403 tons, which is a significant decrease from 2018 when the advice was about 550,000 tons, I do not talk that in 2017 the counseling was 857,000 tons. Nevertheless, considering the situation of coastal countries, it is very unlikely that the overall effort will be within the same advice I had previously had. What this will mean for the future of these fish for the Icelandic ships is difficult to say, but this is a requirement for the importance of treaties as soon as possible among coastal countries for control of the population. The potential for hunting from the stock in Icelandic jurisdiction is not stated. Undeniably, however, the situation of how these fish may develop in the next few years is a need for an adjustment to the importance of continuing the Canossa parade, which has been the long but so far, our failure to address other coastal countries for the protection and use of this fish stock. Regarding the benefits of the bill for the state funds, see section 6.4. In general comments with the bill, we refer further to what it says. I would like, in other respects, to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation of its contents. After a discussion at the council Hall, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u143	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Minister. First, what other options were considered in this bill's construction, the main one? What other means were considered for the use of mackerel? Did they ever plan to reshape the system? What options were considered in this regard? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministerial positions on small boats are linked to the mackerel. Who will she be in his opinion? It'd be good if it was the highest. A minister would, in line with this bill, describe the status of small boats and those who have caught mackerel on smaller boats in recent years. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what the left movement's view of greens made the bill available. Put left green e.g. the requirement for temporary negotiations? What views and demands did the left have that can be found in the matter? Or were there no viewpoints on the part of the party? I think it would be helpful right away if I could get answers to these three questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Asked which options were considered. They are expressed in the opinion of a legal staff. These are basically three main roads. All the options considered were based on current law work. In other words, I did not command the staff to look at ideas that were not available. Rather, to build mainly their work on the current law and order work that has been valid for such fishing for a number of years. The status of small boats in the bill is the same as that of others with hunting experience in this species of fish. The bill assumes that in addition to two years, stock departments will be distributed on the basis of the fishing experience of the ships that have been collected from the trunk during 20083/42018, although it is permitted to drop one year from each other. Regardless of the viewpoints that individual members of the government have in this respect, they differ and speak individually in it. The bill is a administrative bill, and it has passed through members of the government. The material that I especially remember about talking with members of the council from the left green turn to the information of small boats and how they will be secure in these fishing events in the coming years. Other than that, I trusted members of Congress on the left green to speak for themselves their viewpoints in the treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u145	Mr. President. Yeah, I'll do that, too, of course. It's like the highest. The minister correctly introduced this bill, and as it goes, there are different viewpoints. We're talking about fishing control on a relatively new stock but on a precious, valuable strain that Iceland has to control in its economic history. So I would have kept from the ideologies to the highest. Prime Ministers and other Ministers and senators of the left green would have made some comments - that they blessedly out of the small boats - just because of a prince. The fact that other options have not been evaluated and that they should only walk out of present laws tells me a huge story. That tells me a government is going to fix permanent fishing clearances, including the mackerel. She is now doing it with her cod, which, in effect, emphasized the last changes in hunting costs. The government is going to take the mackerel in the same direction. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to correct me if it's not the right thing to do. For information on the matter, not only for our councils after but also for a professional board, we need to know what view is laid down, which ideologies are laid down. Based on the bill, you can have no choice but that there should be no temporary contracts. Ergo: It was not even stressed by the leadership of the government I feel sorry about. We have permanent fishing clearances being established. We must make it a topic of talk. That's all there is to it. It's a huge deal, done and put in here tonight. It's a prince's affair, so it's on the shoulders of the highest. The minister's duty was to inform exactly what the discussion and the lead was on the side of the government and what warnings were given. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If there's no warning signs, it's also a story for itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u146	A respectable president. There is no permanent support for the labor sector, rather than for the other catch - fishing sector in Iceland. However, they are not temporary. It is clear that at any time, the Council can change the law to change the distribution of fishing warrants, as we are actually doing with the already existing bill. It should be emphasized that the ideologies on which this is based are, in fact, the ideologies that are in the law on fish management in Iceland today. There is no agreement on a deterioration of the structure in force, the source system and its hunting regime. I know every idea you've ever had, including. in our discussion of the pressures or changes in fishing costs, there are different viewpoints in the way we are going to deal with the target system. As highlighted in the bill as part of the management post, linked to the mobilization of macroil, there is no doubt that the General will be able to establish new laws on the distribution of the Member States without having to be harmed or otherwise. It is already in progress, and it is even stressed in a paper with the bill that is expected to be discussed in the Senate Hall shortly thereafter. Of course, there are differing opinions between the parties on the implementation of various cases, but on the basis of which I have traced and explained in a discussion of history, on the basis of which this group of three experts laid down, this bill is based.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u147	Mr. President. We in the United States want the mackerelvot to be sent out and will submit the modification form for this bill. In my first talk about the bill, I want to ask 10 common questions and answers to them on the market. The first question, of course, is: Why should we meditate on the availability of fish warrants? The aim of an outing is basically threefold; to increase equality with the distribution of the nation's share, to lower the thresholds for its recruits, and to let the article itself decide what they want and to be able to pay for its sources instead of the government's rights to do it right now. Question No. 2 is: Where are few spokes? The answer is: No, not at all. That's at least Four of the eight groups now serving at the General Assembly, who have an outing route for their policy sheet. It's the Piranus, the Convergence, the left green, and the woodry. This is about their online policy, by permission of the President: Piranus say: The Icelandic government, the owner of the resource, shall provide market rents to the open market and let the rent run into a state fund, and all the finals of the sale shall be public information. To the Conspiracy's policy, there's even a difference. This: Implementing retails on equal terms to moderate time in a transparent manner. New fish stocks and breakfasts should immediately be exported. Left green, with President's permission: It is also a temporary arrangement for allowing, and in part, it must be linked to the structure and fishing practices, and in part to the auction, in part to the areas of the country and rural areas, and to the commands to define ways for distribution. Finally, in a course of restoration, we say: ▪ Instead of hunting fees, there will be a set part of the quatane market each year. This will provide a fair market link for access to the resource and will permanently cover the sector. The route encourages practical management and maximum profit in the long run. Alternatively, a route will be opened for recent recruitment.◯ This shows that there are four groups, at least, who want an invitation on the market. A mission director who gave it to the highest level. The prime minister's proposal for changes in the tax system during the summer of 2016 suggested that there be a source of resources and also international institutions, such as OECD, have advised us to follow a track of the expiry ways and invitations to increase social justice so that the fishing fee will be better in line with the conditions of the article at any given time. This is seen in an OECD report on Iceland's fish policy since September 2015. Then there's a question. 3: Will the way out increase the cost of making such an arrangement? It is not the purpose of an invitation to raise hunting costs, although it may be the result. The primary objective is to increase justice in the distribution of this national property. The widespread distribution rules, in which the same parties are always assigned to eat, are in conflict with the issues of equality and must be developed new ways. At the same time, it is unwise to leave the cost of quality to politicians. Because power is better placed in the hands of free markets. The decision to make an offer will provide the basis for the latest information on the position and appearance of this article. Hence, the way out would be based on better information than the basis for the decision of a hunting fee. The way out may well lead to higher fishing payments. It's, for example. The conclusion, based on invitations in the Faeroe Islands, is taken into account. There, in September 89.9 k. While we charge $3.55. There's so much difference, President, you can't let him lie unexplained. Question No. 4. Would you be invited for a short or longer time? The answer may be: You can provide markets for a year or 20 years, and everything in between. It may be wise to offer more than one duration. Then there are automatic flexibilitys obtained by the relative annual decline. The Faeroe Islands have three lengths; to one, to three, and to eight years of age. The government usually offers special transportation permits to 5 years of age, and there has also been a similar period of time in telecommunications. Question No. 5: Is there a national advantage on the property of builders? No, indeed. In the 1st matter, pars. track No. 116/2006, of the management of fishing, is a recommended common property for Iceland's crops. In the 3rd case, the distribution of fishing documents under law would not be a ownership or unregistered custody of individual sources. Third, the Supreme Court has fallen, where the Lawgiver's right to change the procedure of distribution is trialed. I'm in court on trial for the Reconnaissance Centre Corp. Against the United States of England since March 2017, the president's permission is as follows: Then, in the second court, it is confirmed that the legislators can decide that fishing warrants should be added to an appropriate lead period and after events reassigned, as well as to include the right to fish, bound to conditions, or paid for it because of changing views on the provision of the crops. Question No. 6: Do the invitations lead to a faster compression of markets? That's a question you often hear about this subject. The answer is not necessarily yes. Fish markets, a type of export, do not lead to fiscal compression. The current system of distribution and the free exposition has led to a very rapid compression. The morning newspaper's review from October of last year showed a dramatic reduction in farming companies by means of legislatures. The number of fish has decreased by 564 since 2005's commercial fishing year. So they went from 946 companies to 382. It is easy to design an invitation that leads to the opposite, i.e. to less compression, but is tested at the present distribution by forward. It is worth considering the reviews of the scholars Peters Cramptons and Thorbjørn Trondsens on the macrotic bill presented in the 144th General Assembly. A fine example is that of macrovota in Chile, where a large - scale interest group has reported the government's high - paying plans for the change in the distribution of quathane. The government wants to control the exports and give smaller outputs the opportunity to have a dinner with special invitations to horse and sardines, but the large production there protects its interests cruelly, as is done in other places. Question No. 7. Lead out an invitation to peripheral prices and a very high price for replacements? If only a small portion is offered at a time, it can lead to peripheralization and thus become higher than would be reasonable to add to the entire article. This is clearly evident in the present dinner of a market between outputs, where prices are enormously high. If we look at the fish - room web, we can see what the kilogram has on, for example. there's cod in that market, for there's an tender market. It's just between the exports. There's a cod kilo at a mile and a half. between party and person while hunting fees are between 13 and 14 cents. The original invitations where there would be much more sold, the small amount currently available at the quota market, are likely to reduce this price very much, thus making it easier for newcomers to learn very much so that new ones can make themselves available. Question No. 8. Is an invitation likely to increase the cost of fishing and thereby weaken its ability to compete for international competition? High taxes can be tender and lead to loss of competitiveness in the workplace. We know that. Resource costs, especially those determined by the market, are not taxes but payments for resources. Because of this, they are considered a less objective route of government income. At the same time, the commission is based only on the project, but it does not operate in international competition. Rather, it is protected from it by law. The price does not land on fish industry or on fish products, nor does it cause any additional expense to come from them. Fish market prices take into account only supply and demand, so fishing costs or exports will not interfere with this. Question No. 9. If the way out is so good, why is it not applied to more limited quality? Exports are exactly a principle when the public must choose between enterprises, whether in terms of limited quality distribution, such as climate clearance and frequency burn, or the distribution of projects, such as major projects and transport releases. At the same time, ocean - breeding areas, which are now being discussed in the work committee, plan to use a export method. Question No. 10. Has an invitation proved bad elsewhere? Entries have been developing the export, and they intend to continue. It is discussed in Norway now to eliminate a so - called straluvota and ask it out. Russia intends to resume an discharge, but an experiment they did years ago was not successful enough. Makicikvots in Chile are offered out, as I said before, and the Greenlandans look to the trial of the Faeroes now that they are working on changes to their system. When, I say, not if we record a warrant, we can look to the experience of other nations. Iceland has been leading in recent decades to the development of a global fishing system and has been free of new ways to go before others. To get the full price for fishing permits, we're supposed to offer out fish clearances. Official tenders are the most efficient way to return the resources to the nation. An invitation would promote fair competition between marine export companies and provide smaller companies with access to dinner. The price would be as if the companies were willing to pay for the resources and at the same time become the prize of government funds. Today, those assigned to the food can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting the quotas to the 3rd party. It is intolerable to watch such a business and compare it with the low fishing fee that now flows into a government fund. Experts have noted that with well - equipped invitations, governments can achieve all the premise goals, such as the switch between ships, territories, and innovations. The fishing system must be transformed into its whole body and can be taken immediately in the right direction. In payment of this bill, the Conspiracy will provide a European Commission's proposal for a certain amount of time that will be explained in the members of the Union's Committee on the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u148	A respectable president. It was an interesting talk about the benefits of an invitation, which I may have disagreed completely with. I consider this one of the worst ideas ever to be introduced in Icelandic politics. There's only one question about it. That's the monster that's in there, in this bill, is he the partner of the nation? He's caught somewhere in the middle of the Atlantic, not in our fishing story. Why do we share in this greeting? Because some builders decided to sail far south for fishing. So individual senators consider it a great deal of justice that we take - I don't know on what basis, perhaps on the basis of the thought that they own the fish - this labor department and offer it up; that the fishing experience has no significance, that the pioneers have no meaning. Counts 'em out. A senator that this pioneer business, this way of catching this mackerel, and thus taking part in a total agreement - that this can be done from the Constitution and the protection of human rights? I think it's completely ridiculous, especially at the mackerel hunts. It's bad at all hunting, but especially in a stock that isn't even caught in our own jurisdiction, and under no circumstances can it be said that this is a national partnership. Of course, we can determine the hunt on the basis of the Supreme Court, the politicians can decide. But it's not fair to make all of this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u149	Madam President. It's obvious that me and him. A senator disagrees on this matter. The state makes a deal on behalf of the people, not on behalf of the builders. The state negotiates decomposing on behalf of the nation. I think it's just to ask him out. I quoted earlier in the Supreme Court where it is written down that, of course, we, the Lawgiver, can do whatever we want to do about changing these laws, being old, and reassigned, and doing what we find wise to do. Yes, I am absolutely convinced that those with good hunting experience and tools will offer what they trust to pay for their eating fees. And, yes, I think it's just, when it's written on behalf of the people, and when the fish is within our jurisdiction, it's obvious to me, to offer up resources. Of course, not all of this should be torn up overnight. At the same time, we would be creating a more just system and improving our prospects for innovation, as well as the article paying for a hunting fee they believe they can handle, depending on what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u150	V.E.G. President. It seems to who about righteousness. That's not new. I have to say, I'm going to disagree too. A senator says that the lawgiver can do whatever he wants to do about the Habitat Department. I think the lawgiver can e.g. I don't decide to cash in all individual sources and sell them for auction, I don't think the Constitution will allow it. On the other hand, the lawgiver may decide that hunting is free. Then no one is taken away. I'm not going to go into some legal debatt about this. I'm just saying I think it's important that there's the same rules about this as about other fishing. The experience is important, the motivation for humans to try something new, to go somewhere and try to form some rights - I consider them rights, like other rights, protected by the Constitution. I believe that courts will agree with me in that. The second at the end, which also worries me a little bit: Hv. A senator said the fishing costs were very low. I feel that 33% of profits plus taxes from other profits made by the state do not have a small share at this hunt. I think taxation is on too high overall and can weaken our competitiveness, which this matter is more or less all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u151	Madam President. Now it's the one that doesn't have the law, but that's why. A senator who came here to answer. In my speech earlier, I quote the Supreme Court, and I would like to, Madam President, to read again what it says. I can't understand this other than that there's a confirmation of what I said before, but not what I had before. A senator said. This paragraph from the Supreme Court since March 2017 is like this, with President permission: Then, in the second court, it is confirmed that the legislator may decide that fishing warrants should be added to an appropriate lead period and after events reassigned, as well as to include the right to fish, imposed conditions, or paid for it because of changing views on the provision of the crops. This is a decision from the Supreme Court. This is a clear letter, and there is no way of getting it wrong. Hv. A senator says the price of hunting is high, but I want them to be explained from the highest level. Ministers, and I think it's only natural that we politicians ask, "Why do you think the Faeroe Islands want to offer 89.9 bucks? " for a kilo of mackerel? In fact, there is another invitation for them next week, so there may be another price at that time, but what the Faeroe Islands developers are willing to offer to the mackerelquathan is 2,40% higher than what our developers have to pay. There's a difference that needs to be explained. Only at the end of the day, Madam President: I am a mystery as to why independence men do not trust in the market when it comes to fishing for the resource, but when it comes to other good things, they talk a lot about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u152	Madam President. It might be reversed as a matter of course. paritaprevir Today's Oddný G. Harðardóttir said: "Why do peers believe in the market when fish are underneath and not in the welfare system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u153	There's a bit of a difference over there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u154	But the market law is often strange in the United States. I'd like to discuss only the bill available here that is responding to the Supreme Court and to the macrolinaires since he began catching up with Icelanders around 2005How2006 has been assigned by Regulation. Of course, this is not good and should have been established long ago. But this is the reality that we face, and we must act against it. Of course, the difference between these fishing forms is there, and we represent the left of the greens on a professional committee has put in advance our council in this matter. We feel that we need to take a good look inside a professional committee. In particular, what the status of smaller and medium-sized boats is about the rules in this bill. We know that these smaller boats began to do some good fishing in the mackerel when the mackerel walked here closer to the beach in 2011. Their fishing experience, then, is not the same as the large ones who started fishing in the oceans. Certainly, the people there were pioneers in gaining this experience when the mackerel began walking here in both our jurisdiction and our country. This is one of the parties we're supposed to negotiate, although it has often been difficult to negotiate. It's like the highest. Minister came in, we are catching more than ICES advice on this strain. Of course, there is a great responsibility for taking such a course lightly. How vital it is that we deal with the nations we need to deal with and to control these fishing in a responsible way, also with regard to fishing counsels and the exchange of goods! It was a lot better for Icelanders to get mackerel into their jurisdiction, and I don't talk about it at the time that it really needed to blow coals into the economy after the collapse. I suppose you could say he was a dear guest into our weekend and for the benefit of our boat and boat fleet to raise the nation's economy. And he certainly did. I'd rather take a look at this process by the pro board and look at this reference year between different boat sizes and boat sizes. As it seems now, the distribution of small boats that have been catching mackerel here on the shores of this country would be about 2% of total involvement. I think it's a pretty thin thirteenth, and I think we can make it so that their share is bigger. We know that these large and powerful ships will never be seen anywhere near the shores of the country where this mackerel is caught, fat and fine, the latter part of August or September. Of course, there are hookboats that can catch him on the shores of the country, not those big ships. It is vital, therefore, that we protect the size of boats that can hook the shoreline and ensure their share when we set a game of fishing on a mackerel, which, of course, is very necessary. The share of small boats, as mentioned earlier, has been of some use since 2011. At that time, he was not much, 304 tons, went to 1,099 tons in 2012, but last year he was up to 3,501 on the fishing boats. But the total amount, so I take that number, was 129,599 tons caught by small boats. I could be saying the wrong numbers here, but it just turns out. By 2014, 2018 had become less than 2.9%, but it was already a peak of 4.88%. When it was shared in 2014, the number of boats in smaller numbers was greatly reduced, and smaller share groups were unable to collect the catch so that in 2015 the number of boats was reduced from 121 to 57 boats and have been around 50 since that time. So I believe we're supposed to make some things better now that we're being discussed. Trying to update this so that we will have a legal opinion, and as lawgivers, we can arrange for these hook - up subs of a righteous share in the entirety. There is a full chance of staying a pot, as it has been in the past few years, in the 5.3% of social objects. It was a last year's pot of 2,000 tons that was available to be used in the hook - up network, rented out, separated from. He's not there as this looks right now, and I think it's very important that we take out spaces to use the social part of the system, 5.3% of the system, and strengthen the foundation for these little boats. Of course, there are many boats that have spent large amounts of money on macropolis. I think it's important that we back them up. In Norway, the share of small boats is 16◯18%. The Norwegians have decided to ensure the share of the small fleet on the shores of the country, the Mackerfishers, in this proportion. I think we need to look to that, even though we're not necessarily taking that number. We really need to look at it, and it's the number, as she looked out in this bill--2% for small boats--not acceptable. It must be observed fair that these smaller boats come much later into the fishing business. It must be looked to when considering a reference year with them. One thing is that I want to draw attention to, and I think it's important to consider. As I understand this, there's a hall on these fishing warrants and there's no fence between the hook-up system and the big system. In our fishing system today, there is a fence between us. I think we should watch that there will be a fence in this system as well. It's important. And there are some things we need to look to. I'm not going to tie myself to anything specifically, but I believe that we, on a professional committee, are under obligation to do so, as the Supreme Court does. A minister came in, taking a good look at all the reviews. As discussed, there have been reviews in our consultations, and we continue to hear and wrestle to do this so that we can be as fond of pleasure as possible in such a controversial matter as it is. It was mentioned earlier if the left green had come to this case at some point. We know this case is at custody. Marine and agricultural ministers, but we're going to work together to do some changes in the case of the Committee and plan to make peace with them. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we're in a government where classes have different priorities about the fishing regime. We have presented ourselves to be content with certain aspects of the government's fishing system and have been working out. But this is not in a government contract, the nature of the matter, according to the different ways of the groups in the fishing business, if the fishing system should begin to be taken from the foundation. And there is the possibility that you and a mouse will not be cut off in this round. But we can adapt and agree on things that are better, and I just think it's urgent that we do it and think that it's as much equal as we can, that the luck is divided in a just way, and look to other countries that we often compare with: Northmen who catch mackerel and the Faeroeans, who, of course, are also large in the mackerel. We can consider some factors there. This was shown in a talk given here. paritaprevir Oddný G. Hardydiff's Harðardóttir was being offered a mackerel for about 89, 87 or 89 k., in the Faeroe Islands. But the figures I've heard of getting a pound of mackerel out of the sea here on a hook sound of 90 k. So that problem hardly works out. There's something else going on there, some perimeter offer and auction. Because something wants to be turned for the hunters and can't pay the equivalent number per kilogram at auction, and then they get the catch at the market. We left greens have not been particularly marketed, and if only the market is to go, we take it easy on the earth. We want social justice and equality, to examine things according to reason, and what is possible at one time, and to try to put into practice the principles of this matter, as well as the other matters that we have discussed in this administrative work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u155	Madam President. I just want to remind you that a group of sisters left greener men with Høgna Hoydal on the head of the states has been a dedicated spokesman for offering auctions in the Faeroe Islands. They're moving on. It's not perfect, but they're moving on, including... for justice and for the sake of public interest. That has been their prime argument. This is a group of sisters left green. I'm glad to hear that tone that went by. A senator on the small boats. I share their concerns, and I know that we also see in the reviews that there is a dissatisfaction among them by the way the bill handles their affairs. Like I say, I'm familiar with it. With their powerful interestsmen and spokesmen who make their affairs very clear, they spoke to me at the Ministry of their time and were not particularly happy that I said that I would not meet them, not as long as the trial was going on. I didn't think it was right to change that. And as well as the so - called reconciliation committee, with all classes, was also in progress. I did not want to do anything that rocking that boat to achieve an important social, social, social reconciliation over the fishing arrangements and the payment in that context. But the other thing is, I have a lot of understanding about the mackerel that this is a new stock in Iceland. I'd like to ask, since all the party members of the Peace Committee except one, the Independence Party, gave ideas and claimed to be ready to examine some form of temporary agreements. So I want to ask you why. Senator: Do you turn the left green in advance of the mackerel? Try left - green to say: "Okay. We're not messing with the big fishing system, but the mackerel is an ideal opportunity for us to enter temporary negotiations? [[The president calls.]] Were there any warnings on the left green in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u156	Madam President. Now I don't sit at the government table. I may well do it sometime, but I don't do it now, so I don't have this information at first. I think it's right. A senator asks secretary left-green into these things. I'm not going to take the risk of giving an answer to others in that regard. But, as the fishing system is today, there are nonterm divisions. They are already assigned to an indefinite period of time, as we know each other. They do not last forever. This is also made clear in a bill as well. A senator has distributed and is about an auction or tender on a mackerel. And at any time, the General can suggest changes in the provision of resources. They are assigned to one year at a time, and I think it is very important to maintain it. I remember when I, along with others, wrestled to try to make changes in the fishing system here in 2009 and in 2009,2013. Then I was regarded by a respected lawyer who was then, Magnús Thoroddsenur, that the Allied Council could at any time make changes in the fishing system. So it's just in my mind a project that's always there. But it must also know when there is any possibility of making changes. We left greens have been in favor of temporary innovation agreements. [[The president calls.]] There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u157	Madam President. That was an interesting answer, for at the end came a why. A senator who said that left greens are in favor of temporary contracts. That policy and that view has clearly not been promoted in this case, for of course, these issues are not just at the government table. We know that. If the arrangement has not been changed, which is not my knowledge, the government will proceed with the council, and they will agree to it. And it seems that neither the Council of the Left Green nor the Ministers have made this notice of the temporary agreements. I'm sorry, because this is a case of enormous importance, or is included in the way we try to put on foreview, stability and temporary agreements, in order to prevent permanent mobilization. It's true what people have said. The council can change any time. Why, though, are we discussing this matter on such grounds? Because the State was subject to damages on the basis of decisions that included. Ministers of the left green took their time with regard to the mackerel. We are subject to harm. That is why I ask, " Why don't we take advantage of this opportunity and change it, and use the mackerel as an example of how we could continue to develop justice? ' We don't have everything. Why were temporary negotiations impossible? In case of a moment. A senator is against an auction or a marketing route, only taking the step with temporary negotiations; such as to 20 years of age; and then the remuneration arrangement can be decided. I'm ready to discuss it, even though I'm a firm spokesman for going public or auction. But this would have been such an ideal opportunity for the left green to show that they are ready to stand at least on this prince's side in regard to the temporary contracts. Because there isn't a whole system. Sadly, in due course, it is an ideal opportunity for us to extend the course of the left-hand minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u158	Madam President. I just want to thank you. A senator for the strength of her trust in us left green. It clearly believes that our power and power are greater than our Senate grants. I know we're on our feet, and we're doing a good job here, all of us at the council. But it's now that this big problem with the resources and the accession of resource directives and the way the fishing system is conducted -- I don't know how many names have been in the last 20 years with people from all categories, groups no longer in Congress, and a number of people who have wrestled on this project in the last 20 to 30 years, just as long as I've been going into politics. And no conclusion has ever been made. We're left green, we're just realistic. As I mentioned, we made a warning, a professional council member of the United States Congress class of the greens. We are going to face these envelopes and look at interest, especially in small and medium-sized productions, regarding the mackerel on the shores of the country's shores. Because we don't think there'll be any other structures that will fill it. And we will, wrestle with it. But that we can, in the process, make fundamental changes in the fishing system our way is, of course, just an illusion that is not possible under these circumstances. We have a government contract. There are many benefits to support coastal fishing, and many other good things. But there was no conclusion about making a fundamental change in the fishing system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u159	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change in the fishing law outside of Iceland's jurisdiction, No. 151/1996, with subsequent changes, control of macroil fish. As shown in the speech of the last speaker, w. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, the first sighted macroil, perhaps not of Icelanders, up from 2005 to the country, and increased very quickly in the years that followed. It was said that it had been a kind of extension in its time, just about and after the crash, getting the mackerel into the jurisdiction. That's true. Most of them went up to 1 60,000 tons in the 2014 years, with over 250 ships fishing, ships, and boats fishing. This bill is actually made up of a Supreme Court court that fell last year. I just want to quote the introduction of a paper with the bill, with the permission of a president: ▪ By the bill this is suggested to raise the target management to fish in macroil, but so far, the control of the population is in place of the regulations of marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers, allowing from the Fish Room, which has been set up for one year at the same time. It is time to adopt such an organization. Actually, it is time to take up such a organization for many years without having been done in that direction but to increase some liberation about the organization of fish under controlled regulations so that there is a similar organization. - That. in the regulations that have been involved in the past few years. At the beginning of the bill in Article 1. It is said that the Fishing Room is assigned to individual fishing centers in the North East Altlantic Oceantic Institute, on the basis of their ten bestexperience years of success during 2008-2018, including both years. As I look at this, there is a compromise of some sort or to face both this judgment and all those who have such hunting at that time. In fact, the court has requirements for damage to the Icelandic state, so it's just that. As shown in the previous speaker's speech, the object of a small boat is a disgrace, and I agree with a speaker that in it we have to work on a professional committee of small boats. I want to review the history of mackerel fishing, so rough, from its beginning, and I wrote a fistula when the Supreme Court fell last year. Somehow, the thistle sounds like this: The surprising judgment of the Supreme Court of December 6 of the past year in the case of builders on the part of a mackerel against the United States is of interest, even though it did not surprise everyone. There are no doubt some who will consider the judgment to be exemplary and who will request damages and correction. In the case of the projections that were assigned both after hunting experience and from pots, it would only mean that the labor share would move within the same design. Then there's only small boats left, but their share in the total volume is very small. - I'm gonna come back to that a little bit better. In order to put the judgment in perspective, I think it would be right to review the background of the fact that mackerel was distributed to nonfishers. It is worth noting, too, that the Canaanites were assigned to one year at the outset or until 2015. In 2009, 11,200 tons were distributed to ships, a large portion of which were being destroyed. In 2010, mackerel fishing rules were quite strict. The objective was to use mackerel for human consumption rather than to melt. The purpose was to increase the value of the country's income. Not even the same fishing project could be moved between ships. The situation in the sea was such that many fishing projects, large and small, did not make sense of having enough work, and likely because of this, it was only natural that more people were allowed to skim and process this newly grafted gold. So it was issued a directive that distributed 15,000 tons to vessels that had not been used for these fishing and 3,000 tons for small boats. This year, the total share was 112,000 tons, so the share of small boats was very small and hardly the big thing that it affected the survival of large types. During that time, mackerel was swarming all over the sea, and most thought it normal to catch it. True, lack of familiarity and gold mines led to overindulging in equipment and equipment. Many miniboats had little fishing experience, and some did not have fishing and so they had no hunting experience when a permanent labor share was put in 2015. Nevertheless, it became an abundance of farms for many of those who did not have too much to play, and fish industry around the country was able to make better use of their equipment. Today, the question remains what will follow. A permanent repartment department made during 2015 may not be culminating. Of course, the already judged daughters will respond to national preparations - if not - and no one will argue that certain repairs are damaged. The question, however, is whether it would have been natural to assign at the time no matter what the raw materials should have been done and whether the reference years should not have been just the same in the years when ships started fishing for real, i.e. when more was made of valuable things. Because I mentioned the small boats earlier, I had read on the website of the country's small boat owner that the national board of directors agreed with the following conclusion about the bill. Would I, by permission of the president, read it up: To some extent, it was the year 2013 that the boatkeepers first began fishing on a mackerel. The period of hunting experience, however, should be 2008◯2018. The government of the European Commission of Submarines stated that there has been a bill presented as a difference between the size and the position to hunt. In the early part of the season, small boat owners had no way of acquiring hunting experience when the mackerel was on distant tickets, far outside their circuits. The European Commission of a small boat owner requires consideration for this approach to the full - time work of the bill. As a result, mackerel, which walks onto a shallow path and lives in areas where a hookboat hunts him, is at ease in areas that never pullrs, and will not catch the mackerel that rises to the base. So the small boatmen think it'll be in the bill in some way, and we'll be on the pro board about it when the bill goes to the committee. Two percent to small boats is just a tile of that cake, and as mentioned earlier, a small boat pot or a beach fishing at Norway is 16 to 18%. He went up here to 4%, I think, someday. The raw substance that comes from this hook-fished mackerel goes all the way to human consumption. It's a quality substance. It's a fish that's never older than ten hours old in the boats, an ice bottle usually at around 0°, and it gets very fat when the hookboats catch it. It's from a commercial weekend where he usually goes fishing, at least. Last few years. So it is in my mind that hookboats get to hunt from the stock that goes partly up to the shores of the country and is not in the tracks of a tugwagon. So neither group is interrupting the other. This is something I hope we can contribute to the committee. It's clear that this is a long time, this reference year, 2008◯2018, ten years. So this spreads pretty much across the fleet. But this bill has come out. I've just studied the history of how things have worked out. For a time, there was a measure of gold mine, and it was given much in the midst of the initial years, followed by a successful view of the value. I say again, the raw stuff that little boats bring into the country is 100% good raw material, total starfish. I'm not gonna keep my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u160	Madam President. It's a bill. It's a TV. Marine and agricultural ministers on the disposition of sources for hunting mackerel are basically in bad cases. Is there not much to hope, since the distribution of sources in general is not well - off? Here, mainly two things: The decision to make a reservation instead of paying for it market prices and the fact that based on hunting experience from a period when the sailors could not know that the bill would build on and some of them did not even have the opportunity to hunt in the early part of the season. It is our duty to protect against the collapse of fish stocks through legalization that ensures proper contact with them. Instead, we are here to witness an experiment at the expense of small-boat owners and smaller funerals. An attempt to legalize future discrimination in the implementation of fishing warrants. It's amazing. Ministers are now walking forward with a bill involved in legalizing macrovota from hunting experience in the last 11 years. Such experiences would have made the country less difficult if it had been known that this route would be long afterward to appoint a regular quota - where less companies could not get a place or an opportunity to earn it. The events in the tickets since a mackerel caught off the Icelanders have nearly been gnarled. At the beginning of the fish, every floating flotation of the great fleet was here at a mob fishing in a mackerel. Much of the catch was sent to melt. He didn't even go public. In 2013 small boat owners were able to start fishing on a mackerel to some extent. However, there should be a period of fishing experience from 2008 ◯2018. It is strange, then, that there is a government bill that differs according to size and location of fishing. In the early part of the season, small boat owners had no way of acquiring hunting experience when the mackerel was on distant tickets, far outside their circuits. Today, we find ourselves in the position of the highest. A minister intends to punish the less demolitions of the country for not being able to hunt in the first part of the season. Why, most respectable president, is at the highest point. This is not a minister to provide fishing for macroil and to obtain comparable prices for the resource, e.g. In the Faeroe Islands, like a whale. paritaprevir Oddný G. A tough Harðardóttir came in here in his speech earlier? No. For some reason, we see here a total lack of interest a minister should go the normal and just way out. Pirata's marine policy says, with permission of presidents: The Icelandic government, the owner of the resource, shall provide market rents to the open market and let the rent run into a state fund, and shall give public information to any source at all. All force should be put on the market to do business with water supply products that are normal and to improve the interests of sailors, lower marine resources, and other companies that work with secondary products. A man would have thought that such a free market route was a member of the highest class. Minister added. But clearly there is very little harmony with the basic concept of the Independence Party on paper and its actions in the government. President. As members of the General Assembly, we should be elected to ensure freedom to hunt and that the nation has valuable resources in its possession. In recent days, the tourism industry, which recently took over the fishing road as the nation's most profitable industry, has been praying for a marvelous delay in the fishing industry. So, shall we, the elected representatives of the country, feel that the government is doing yet another attack on this national work? And this at my expense, mainly in the country? It is an old and new story and has long been broken in Iceland's fishing system by pots and fish farms and farms. But a respectable president, I'm offended to see this attack on another trip. Today, we witness the ultimate. A minister suggests a legal discrimination, in my opinion, violates the United Nations International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. I remind you that Iceland is committed to national rights to comply with the terms of the agreement. In earlier years and centuries, it was our right to receive natural resources that we have as a nation. How is this document we represent here today in the interest of the people in the sealands - exactly because of such unpleasant legalizations over the years, their livelihood has been taken away? To that question, my dignified president is, That certainly doesn't. This is where we see it suggested that the defected cry system be made to cause an even bigger national ills rather than use the marvelous opportunity here to try other methods of fishing disposal. Hv. Parliaments are often called upon to make their plans and will to use their authority here at council to improve the benefits and benefits of those living in the coastal and smaller settlements of the country. This is not the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u161	Mr. President. An interesting debate has been about mackerel, the viewpoints that have been proposed to some extent are old-fashioned, but I want to underscore, although many believe that this is not an opportunity to set matters aside in just another way in relation to the mackerel but will walk and enter the large fishing system, there is no chance. That is right now, when we are faced with responding to the Supreme Court sentence that has fallen upon the mackerel and incurding the State's liability. That is exactly the opportunity to stop and wonder what it is that we here at the council can do, these different groups that have had a common nerve of changing the fishing system, e.g. for a temporary agreement, which I would have thought would be a delight, because we're talking about 20 years of contracts, at least, that would provide 20 years'worth of security for all productions. At the same time, however, temporary agreements emphasize that the fish in the sea, the fish in the fish - fish resource, is the national share. I was sorry to hear earlier today that the national community was being questioned. The Constitution needs to be changed naturally, and hopefully we're getting closer to the resource directive. It must be done, and hopefully it will come sooner than later out of the meeting of the Constitution committee, along with the resource directive. It is remarkable to hear indiscriminate doubts, especially on the part of lawyers in the Independence Party class, about what this real population is. It is really very difficult to change the fishing system, although there is always a phrase: We can do it every year. But we know that, including. As to the issues involved, they have brought us damage to the population. Let us also keep in mind that in 1 Timothy 3: 1 - 3. A fish - control law is the very common policy of the nation's sharing in fishing resources, and it has often been said that this law held an entire government together in 1991-◯1995, the government of the Independence Party and the Democratic Party. This is not some law; it is possible to play some minor game with it, saying, "What does this mean? " Or explain the collective concept solely from the viewpoints of those who have already made it. This is impossible because the fishing resource is the national share, and this needs to be done even more in place. I'd also like to make it clear in the bill that something has been significant, and it has been shown in my answers to the left - green senators that they have not warned about having the bill on this subject, in other ways, despite having their policy of having temporary contracts. It's not that we're overthrowing the big fishing system, as I've pointed out. We're talking about the mackerel. We could take a path that would be a step toward making peace, in my opinion. How sad it is to experience that the government groups do not want to reach out and not even put forth effort to do so! I may not be making a lot of demands on the matter of the Specialist Party and the Independence Party, but I would have thought it normal that the left green would have at least suggests some opinions or discussions about temporary contracts, that I do not talk about marketing when it comes to mackerel. It has been shown that there was no ambition. They said before, "We're not going to overthrow the whole fishing system. " That's not exactly what we're talking about. Here is a unique opportunity for the council and the righteous nerves that hopefully still exist among the members of the statesmen in this matter, trying to correct in small steps the injustices that are still built into the Icelandic fishing system. I've said many times - and I'm not going to hear again that the system is to be overturned or that we don't understand what it is to do - the Icelandic sea exit is on the front row. It's not supposed to change the fishing system, the saying system, as it is now. But payment for the resource access has to be reached. As long as it's not, the whole fishing system will always be submerged. I don't think that's ideal. I just don't think it's ideal with our important system, a model in many ways for many other nations, a sustainable fishing system and based on scientific decision. We have increased the value of this article, so we should not change. But people must work hard and take advantage of the opportunities when they give to try to stretch out their hand slightly and prove that there is some meaning in the ideals that I thought were even. within the left green, achieving any fairness and justice regarding the distribution of valuables as the mackerel is. I agree with what's been said here about the little boats. We need to give particular attention to them in this matter. I want to know that we, together with other members of the council, Pirana and the Continental, have submitted a bill for the control of macroil fish. It specifically shows that 5% of the labor departments we want to make a market. We're talking about a 20-year deal, a great deal of responsibility for what's done. We're talking about that of the total resources, the labor department, we'll get 5% taken - we'll remember that the largest rate of small boats is 4.8% - we're suggesting that 5% be offered on the market where only small boats will be allowed to volunteer to that factor. Thus, small boats are being met in a very decisive way. Of course, this need to be fixed in the bill involved. I heard the Continent's spokesman, boy. paritaprevir It's a whole new Harðardóttir daughter, talking about the auction route. We've been talking about marketing, we've been talking about timing the contracts for 20 years and putting 5% in the market every time, and especially that what is presented in auctions goes to a special building fund for the country, to the areas provided and paid. When we review the reviews that have been involved in this process, there is no unit. Halldór Árnason writes, with permission of president: ▪ The fact is that a number of small boats have paid a considerable price to prepare for mackerel fishing. Everything is going to be in vain for that investment. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: The proposed changes in this bill will have a negative impact on the income that the Smokey seams seams have on this service. The same is true of the agriculture that has been received through the ports of the Smokey Sea. Smoke trucks protest that of this change, unless it is assured that small boats will have the same access to this fishing process as they have so far. Cubby Corp, Nesfish ehf. and Box hf. say, by permission of the president: It is evident, therefore, that by the above law, the acquired value from one company of ships is being brought to others and is protested. The sentence of the Supreme Court was a judgment. Of course. The opportunity was not used at the time, but we are giving a second chance, so let's use it, I say. In fact, the judgment was not to be surprising, for in the opinion of the Trustee of the Generals of 2014, the record continues. that it has been clear to all concerned that the control of the fish was in an invalid limit, as was attributed to the deacons and presented in a paper with the bill. It is also estimated, well-designed, that the bill will interfere with the drawing of the state's income at 1.5 billion. K. A dollar a year. According to the minister's staff, the lawgiver has sufficient authority to set matters according to what he thinks is reasonable and normal. I agree with that. When we review the reviews, it is clear that the bill is not at peace. It is not the first fishing bill that is not at peace, but it might have been expected that some means would have been tried rather than extending the current fishing system. Well, then, let's just say it right. Left green is going to put down his ideals, his weapons about trying to fight for changes in the fishing system. It comes as no surprise--the whaling, which the left green were quite contrary, they've swallowed it. Iceland is the only government in the world that's been fishing for long periods of time, and this is done with the support of the left green. So when we discuss how the left green might feel, we are really no longer surprised. As indicated by the opinion of a minister's staff, and worthy of drawing it, he has no option of maintaining the macrotic fishing regime, which has been virtually unchanged since 2011. On the other hand, he has a choice about which way to make sure that the rights are needed and that he does not maintain this unsaturable condition. The Minister's choice, the highest. A sea emissary who has done so well here earlier today under the hat of agrienvironmental minister is not just the four benefits that are considered to be involved in a bill. In fact, it is stated there, as he mentioned in his talk, that the choices are not completely numbered. I missed one choice, as I mentioned earlier, not assigning a financial department to the government for another time, but taking advantage of a unique opportunity here to try a market route in the sea fair by temporary contracts, so that foreseeability will be afforded to be tested. V.E.G. President. I believe in market. I believe that the market is better at determining the prices of the mackerel than politicians, by the way they wake up each time and what position they are in at each time. Instead, I trust that the market will decide and find the right price, the fair price. Because it is difficult for us to appreciate what is reasonable. I miss the lack of ambition for market groups, at least at times, that they take steps and say: All right, let's try to meet them trying to make peace. Let's take a little step, but let's take it with the mackerel. The ways provided in the prime minister are fully burned to cause some to harm in the form of income loss, different sources, depending on the way it will be chosen and varied, but damage, as well as the damage caused by small or small and medium-sized vessels, is the greatest. The minister's task force also shows that, as I said, the lawgiver has enough authority to set matters as he chooses. Courts have recommended that the legislators be reassigned to a new arrangement, provided that minimal demands are respected for material equality. That is what we do for restoration, not in the way that a minister has recommended. It follows not only the success of the exchange of total resources into items that can be sold at auction but also the means that it will probably provide the equivalent of the natural market value of the resource, as I could at the moment. Most likely, this will result in finding the point we are always talking about, the fair, just price. I've said, and I'm still convinced that if people try hard and dare, I'll redirect this. to the left green, bringing their ideas into the government business and talking for increased reconciliation about the fishing system, but not just leaning back and saying, "This just doesn't mean it. It's not possible, it's all impossible, and we can't do any more. But this is possible, for a broad political reconciliation can be achieved with the fishing business and can blame me for anyone who wants to. I'm not the Pollysium here on a speech chair. I'd like to underscore that we've been brought up in the Annex and others have come up with a case. I will wish that the first will be discussed, so that with this matter will be discussed on the job committee. It is important that the committee is given an opportunity to compare the benefits of the ways we offer. This is a clear option, our choice of transporters from the bill and the bill we are discussing. Clearly, injustice follows the bill of a sea leader, while justice is what we receive through our bill, which we receive in the Red Sea and other provisions to this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u162	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill about changing the fishing law outside of Iceland's jurisdiction, or fishing at a mackerel. According to the bill, the collection department is to be assigned to ships based on their hunting experience in 2008-⇩2018. The 10 best years of this 11 - year period need to be based. An article with the bill is adopted as a market manager. It is suggested that fishing be initiated at the market, but so far, fishing has held in place the rules of seafaring ministers and allowing the Fishing Room for one year. Thus, it is considered time and indeed duty to adopt such an organization, which has been delayed by a conflict in the exchange of resources. This conflict was solved by two court decisions. It agreed to the demands of two production companies on government damage efforts because ships owned them were distributed less labor sources in 2011◯2014 than those related to the law on fishing outside Iceland's jurisdiction. The premise is that the law obligates the government to appoint a labor department to fish the stock market, as it were for the mackerel, if a decision is made to limit total resources from the source to fish. This intervention should take into account the availability of continuous fishing experience and, if a minister is not allowed to look at other sources' views. Thus it was concluded that the distribution of resources at that time was contrary to law. Thus the distribution of permit total resources to be given could not be based on non-fishing experience. In the years before 2008, it was a lot of luck when the mackerel began to get its way up to the country, close to it, because after a collapse, it can truly be said that these fish simply did not simply go on the side of the nation's vessel. Fishing on these fish began in 2008. In 2011, the distribution of markets in macroil was required to determine the harvest share of ships on the basis of their hunting experience for three of the best fishing periods in the preceding six fishing season. In this year, 2011 and 2014, a company that thus claimed to have received a smaller labor share in macroil, which was based on hunting experience, and in accordance with the law of legal action against the state that was lost, according to the legalization given here. The loss that these companies felt they had been through more than a substantial amount of money. It is thus clear that the contingency of this law is the Supreme Court's judgment on 508 and 509 from 2017, where there was acceptance of the United States's expediency as a result of the financial expenditures established by two disintegrations and is attributed to the distribution of resources in macroil 2011-2014. The court acknowledges that the principle is to share in the three best years of the last six years, looking to the companies and ships that developed hunting experience on the basis of the standard laws for fishing management on how to handle the distribution of hunting rights in such cases. If the fishing experience there is a key factor in the future development or in a population, as was done with the 2001 coal mouth. The judgments repeatedly show the importance of harmonizing the value of a global fishing regime, such as that of fishing within and outside the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. we're about the hairy population. Of course, humans have many opinions and opinions on this matter and how to distribute it in the quatans and fishing rights. We have listened to the speakers here and tonight tore up their suggestions and their classes. There have been many suggestions. Of course, there are always opinions and, as you might say, there will always be an argument about the world's well - being. I'd like to warn you, and it's in my mind that throwing these sources or the right to catch up with the air like some tivolbombbu was, and I hope it's just going to be all right. What I want to do, however, is that there is a medium here, which is, and was bypassed by the distribution of markets to macroil in 2010. Then I'm talking about those who go to risk and experiment in such fishing business and who get no reward when the species is later said goodbye, as is the case in the mackerel. In the opinion of the High Court's work group on the case of the High Court due to the inequities of macropolitan regulations, the minister in the early years of the fishing has not looked to the Negotiation Court according to 9 mg. Section 5. The ocean hunt. This law refers to the permission of a minister to determine that up to 5% of total resources should be distributed to the ships starting fishing from the source. In addition, the work force suggests that the clearance point is that when the fishing at a certain level is limited, the rights of the prospective to fish from that ground and after occurrences attack investments in order and then needs to be fixed on the limits. Mr. President. I'm going to read here from the review of the Re-Election Centre, which was sent to the Department of Professional Railroad for the bill, by permission of Presidents: ▪ In accordance with the bill under discussion, it is not expected to assign more share to the relevant organisations who are attending a new source of macroils in their time, and at high expense were able to earn more valuable... And later: ▪ Retributors with risk factors should be allowed to take the initiative. Those who were willing to go to the expense of looking for macroils and supporting EU research should have [...] more claims than what was done until it became clear that fishing on a mackerel was ideal. These are the people who performed experimenting fishing in macroil long before others, including the State, came to visit, and showed any interest in this stock. But now everyone's looking to make a decision. The premonition is important in the management of fish that catalyze marine parties to obtain and national fishing experience in ruined stocks and to be allowed to take the initiative in their pursuit of new species. That is why I give a question signal to some of the early 2008 fishing experience when the pioneers went to hunt out of this stock, which was then swimming for the first time near the country. Of course, the road called for boldness and inventionism to be the first to hunt, leading you to wonder whether they should not be allowed to enjoy their primitive activities at one time or anything with this bill. Finally, Mr. President, I believe this case requires a reasonable opinion on the job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-02-88.u163	A respectable president. Now that it's a long time in the evening, you don't have to be extending it very much at this point. But it's clear that this macrollar bill that comes into the job committee needs to be viewed like other bills, and here is a particularly flammable subject. The Ministry has been over this for a long time, and this is the result. In the beginning, a minister said that following a court case, this is a certain conclusion. We need to review this on the committee and consider it. I just want to talk to you about what has happened here with the representatives of the United States and the construction of the convention that discussed an invitation to the mackerel. This signaling, as far as the Faeroe Islands are concerned, is offering several tons. It's a very small amount of macro which the Faeroes have caught. Of course, I don't know that in Chile, I don't know how much we have in common with them, but we have a lot in common with the Faeroes. The fact is, when a small amount of fish is served, it is at high prices. You don't have to aim the entire fish stock at 89 k. in macroil, when the average price at the market was last year about 65 k. I feel that I have an endless joy in paying taxes and paying taxes indefinitely, and I must not have caught the fish before it is taxed. We're in the back of putting up a fire bill, and there the taxes are also important, and there's additional taxes, the fishing fees. You're about to slaughter the first of those 70 pounds. tons we planned to go to work every year, which needs to be taxed on long before they reach their full size. Although it's a good thing to talk it over in the capital population, which may not be much of a fish industry, I think - and actually people all over the country. There is no connection, either to sea or to agriculture, now in this country. People don't know what's going on, and they think that making it can pay forever. Even if it is able to pay for hunting fees, it cannot go on indefinitely on this industry, not forever. A respectable president. There's another thing I want to say that I feel I have to come to. It turns out that when the mackerel comes up to the land and comes first east, at the Glattingsack and Red Square, and in these old paths deep out of the country, there were no small boats fishing there, not in the early years. It didn't happen until later. In Southernnes, where macrolide has been more relevant in recent years, where 7 of you have been frozen. a ton of the vermilion of only a hookamal, it is clear that small boat that has been saying goodbyes may be assigned according to these ideas, or those laws, 50 to 470% of what they have. They will not live up to one thing or another. So we need to examine how we are going to take the small boats in this regard. They get 2.89% divided in this target here, but they've usually had about 5.3% of the total amount in species, so we need to examine it. It has been observed by the chairman of the Committee and others that there is special reason to consider this and put a special pot for small boats. We will. We'll look into it. We also want to look at the distributions of more boats, the intersector, and cover them well. I know there's been a lot of work to be done at the Ministry. It is good work to build on. It's good work to go home and sleep on, I think.
