ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. Smoke. N., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, said that he would be absent at the next time in public affairs. Today, therefore, at the World Council of the 3rd President on the left movement list, Gísli Garðarsson, who has announced pasturages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u2	The letter of Gísli Garðarsson's son has already been investigated and approved, but he has not taken his place in the Council before, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u3	Gísli Garðarsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u4	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-need counsellors to provide written answers to queries: From a foreign minister for the requested application. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason, from the Environment and Resource Ministers for the development of sectoral inquiry. 949, for the operation on the spread of the forest system, from the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and from the Ministry of Social Affairs for the Development of the Church. 967, for suggestions on changing arrangements to nursing homes, from Brá Konráðsdóttir Kons Councildóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u5	The president wants to say that he considers an agreement that may be held longer than a Senate conference can expect or until the discussion of one part of the program is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u6	Mr. President. I was, like, more, not around the 1st. Because I had a professional committee in Norway. But I listened to the reply of a minister in reply, including on the terms and agreements and the opinions of the states to the case. I think it's very important to this discussion, at least now to 1. Um... to the highest. The secretary of the environment will be there to inform them of their stand on the matter. It is important to know what the environmental minister's position on this important matter is. I would like him to be here, even if only for a moment to answer a few questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u7	This wish will be heard by the President for the first time. The president had made arrangements and had made sure that a minister of the sea would be present. But as usual, these messages will be sent to the highest level. Minister of the environment that his presence is requested. The case is the custody of a marine eco-efficiency minister and he/she will be here. Now it's informed that the Environment Minister is foreign, so I don't see where it's gonna be time to meet wishes. A senator, for that would have been a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u8	Mr. President. In fact, I am following up in my talk, but I would like to state that no consultation was made to a minority of the committee to take the matter on Thursday. If I had been here, of course, I would have made those notes in time. This is the first chance I have to direct this to the highest. So I hope that he respects me so that he has not made these comments before. I also respect the highest. The secretary of the environment is abroad engaged in official service and will therefore not make an issue of it. However, I will ask him to be called to the Committee to answer any questions I have to him regarding the matter himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u9	Mr. President. We'll talk to a bill at the highest. a marine minister to legalize the change in various laws related to fish farming. This is a framework for fish farming in Iceland, which has long been called after, both of fish farmers and of those who want to see a stiffer range around the fish farm, especially when it comes to environmental and currency. We're discussing changes in employment laws that are likely to become a prominent sector in Iceland. We are also involved in the legislation on employment issues that are known to produce considerable environmental impacts, as in all other food production. That is a fact that there is no reason to draw feathers. V.E.G. A sea - out minister changed the same law last spring, but unfortunately, it did not allow time to end the case, since it was late. This was called after some changes from the highest proposals. Minister, the changes I was hoping we'd see in this law. I have to admit that considering the small changes that have occurred since the last spring, I do not fully understand the reason that the conduct of this case has been brought about as much as it is seen, but the original assumed that this case would be for a discussion at the council by Christmas. Mr. President. I'm glad we're discussing this important law. But I miss not seeing a steady policy, and the government's vision is reflected on the bill. How do we want the development of fish farming in Iceland, according to Norwegian plans for their fivefold fire in the coming decades? Indeed, we have framed the article in that way so that fishing has been shut down in places other than Eastern Europe, Western Europe, and the Eyjafjörður. But how do we see the future development of fish farming in Iceland? How much do we want to see grown? What is acceptable about environmental impacts, and what ways do we want to go to limit them? We are required to associate respectfully with this precious resource of ours. That's where I think everyone's interests are together. To me, that doesn't mean there's no use. We have to look to sustainability, as often as before. I have previously used the illustration of the three - foot chair in connection with sustainability, but we must look to all factors, i.e. Environment, social and economics, in this and the rest of the coverage. If you lean on one foot, one of the factors, the others fall. The discussion in Iceland has been very controversial. The same can be said of other countries where fish farms have been built, such as those in our neighboring countries, Norway, Britain, and the Faeroes. Our neighbors have made a strict claim to fish farming in environmental matters and, especially, monitoring. Also, Norway provides an explanation for innovation, research, and counterbiological action. Last week at the North Atlantic Seaafgood Forum in Bergen, it can be said that the major subject was sustainable and impacts of climate change and, of course, technology development in the sector. In his phrase, Prime Minister Erna Solberg introduced the importance of the sea and the great role the sea actually plays in the lives of us all. Life on land came back from the sea. Indeed, the sea played a major role in making it possible for us Icelanders to live in this cold northern country of the prom sea, in fact keeping us alive in all the sense. The products of the sea have given us so much, including food, money, even medical products, and vitamins. Mr. President. As mentioned in the news, last week the job committee of the Council of Norway visited. The trip was about many practical things, and we met there. Fish farmers. We meet representatives of the Norwegian Oceanographic Institute, the Norwegian Fish Institute, Norwegian scientists who are involved in the study of fish farms and its effects, both environmental and social, as well as representatives of three environmental organizations that have criticized fish farming in Norway for various reasons. Then, as I mentioned earlier, we attended the North Atlantic Seafjord Forum, where people come from, discussing what is at the top of the circle each time. What's a bit fun about that conference is that it's not a pitch show, it's a conference where the scholars and the people in the sector are dealing with the sector. Even there was a number of them. Talk about fish farming, the position of the article, and its development. Clearly, there is massive powder and funding for research and development, especially in order to solve the problems that concern us most, such as anywhere else, i.e. handling salmon lice and accidental exodus. Various solutions, to form lice without medication, which is, in fact, almost gone in Norway, to sealed heifers, and also to put larger fish into sea pens to reduce both lice and releases, something I think we should look to in our legislation. It is important that the Icelanders pay close attention to the trend and develop the best possible solutions each time, as well as to put extra energy on their own research, for we have certainly demonstrated in innovation in the fishing road and other sectors that we have so much to offer. Not to be overlooked are the manufacturer's interests and interests in the environment, but the manufacturer's aim must be to avoid disease and parasites as well as not to lose valuables. Although they're still developing the solutions I mentioned above, they still promise a lot of good things. So we need to take a closer look at whether there is any reason to put into law to use such technology when it is practical, as well as possibly to look for some of the areas that remain to be carrier resistant to such techniques as earmarked technology. The bill's report, with permission from the President: In conjunction with the growth of this article, you need to ensure essential research and normal monitoring of environmental impacts. It is less important to note that during a discussion during the fall session, both the Food Institute and the Marine Research Institute feel that they have a very narrow cut when it comes to the very factors, i.e. Research and monitoring of fish farming would have been helpful, so it would have been good to see more management to these institutions than is expected here. The fish farms have also called for more efficient control, so it is important that the health - care partners are located where the fish fire is instead, as an example, that they take a representative of the Rapporteurs for a week to replace themselves at a time when something comes up. According to the bill's report, an estimate of the cost is due to its impact on the Ministry's work and its establishment of 85 million. K. By 2020, of which about 23 million were found. K. of stock size. The annual cost will be 62 million. K. of 2021 C.E. Annual increase, including 90 million. K. The increase in environmental funds from marine farms is therefore estimated to be 152 billion. K. of 2021 C.E. In this context, it should not be forgotten that other institutions, such as the EEA and Fish Room, are also designed for a significant role in the legislation but are not expected to be increased in the bill. Then there is the lack of opportunity to ensure that contributions to the Oceanographic Institute would be made more through the budget than through the marine farm environment, using this fund rather to promote innovation and other research on fish farms in Iceland. Mr. President. Norwegians have created a vast system to hold the fish fire and its effect. In particular, these include the so - called traffic lights system and the public's good access to various reports and information. This can be done on the website of the Norwegian Fishing Room, where you can see all the information on every cow in Norway that is in the sea, e.g. how many fish are in the heifer, how the fish have been treated, what their names are, whether lice have come up, etc. It is expected in the legislation we deal with that authority to publish it. I think it is important to establish a comparable information system here so that all information is available in real time, with experience in Norway being very good. For fun and information for what? In the United States, for example, ocean research organization of Norway is one of the largest marine research institutions in Europe, with about 1,000 employees and $1.2 billion each year. The Agency works research and offers advice and gives an annual assessment of fish farming for Ministers, Ministry and Fish Service of Norway, but it makes no decisions by itself, only natural enough to decide - and it was her answer - to fish farming is finally political, although it was based on scientific evidence as in another fishing regime. The risk management assessment has raised many questions that need to be answered, such as regarding the introduction of a ministerial servant, but it has also been asked whether it is not reasonable to work on the absence of mixing by performing counterweight measures to reduce the risk of such events. In fact, the bill seems to be expected in the definition of risk assessment and may interpret it as if a Marine Research Institute is going to take possible counter measures into the calculation of the risk assessment, as so many have called. It is not defined exactly what such counter measures might be, but a minister is assigned to discuss these measures in the Regulation. However, it is stated in the report that the Marine Research Institute is expected to submit precipitating measures aimed at inhibiting the potential of genetic preparation, and therefore, at risk assessment, several versions of the manufacture materials should be presented, depending on the compensatory measures taken. Mr. President. The responsibility of the Council, the Lawgiver, in this matter is great. It is the role of the Parliament to present policy practices, by legislation that establish strict guidelines. In my opinion, it is important to set the requirements for environmental and pollution systems of this article and that is what the article itself has called for. It is also becoming a matter of taxation for the use of the nation's resources, not as normal as it is being given. I miss that we don't discuss concomitantly with the bill on the currency of fish farms. We must also discuss whether there is a natural need for currency in situations where carrier food has already been provided but a fish supply is not started. This involves a substantial portion of the area where fish farming is possible, as well as where fire is already being started. We need to take a special look. It must naturally be that the fish industry is involved in paying the cost of the Kingdom because of the article. I will then have to mention as a former government official that I missed the failure of my rural society to get a share in the current currency rate, just as Norway does. There is something that we must consider, too. Farming has to depend on substantial costs for e.g. building up ports and other infrastructures in connection with the structure of the article, and it is only natural to meet them. We need to be more supportive of the development, research, and innovation of fish farming methods so that European fish farms can grow and develop like other sectors in the country. However, we also have a heavy responsibility on the nature of Iceland, and we have a responsibility to help reduce the environmental impact of salmon in any way we can. We have the opportunity to learn from our neighbors, who have already found many things. For example, it is important that we make sure that if bad things happen, a business of fire will be obliged to remove all the constructions that are provided by the fish fire as well as to clean the sea floor if necessary. You might do the same in Norway. Mr. President. To say that, I would like to encourage us to exert ourselves in an effort to get the discussion of the fishery out of the pits and to be sure that we will not forever set it up as contrasts. Life is not black/white in such a way that environmental plants are automatically against fish farms or those who want to feed the environment automatically. Similarly, it is important that we not get caught in the debate that this is a capital against a national or national capital. It's just not that simple. The matter will be discussed on the job committee, and it is clear that much work will be done for the Committee and other factors that need to be considered in a much better way before the 2nd issue can be considered. Anyway, I don't see how we can accept the fact that this situation is going against the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frisbjörg the Elíasdóttir of Elisabeth for a very good story. I would say that I was both grateful for what it said and agree with it. A senator, e.g. When we talk about getting the talk about salmon farms out of the pits. I think it's really important. I would like to briefly cover my trip to the Western Council. We visited the Faeroe Islands last year, were in Thors Harbor for a while, and were allowed to see the salmon Faeroe Islands, which has grown and is actually returning it to a national farm many times more harvest than any other catch. We know what it's like in the community, as it turns out, that it's divided into two states, i.e. people who have salmon farms and those who are against them. What we are tempted to do here, and now we are trying to unite the viewpoints in this regard in an effort to make some logical conclusion about how we really fit in, so that we are above all doubt that we are doing well and want to do good. We really need to promote salmon fuel in the country. Before I'm going to do the wonderful reflection I had already written, I'd like to say that the movers have already adopted the entire Norwegian system, which is why. The job committee was allowed to get to know each other on their last week's trip, except what it was not perfect for. There's a different course and current in the ocean, except that moving, deep foam in Norway is not comparable to what the Movers have on their tables, rather than being the same with us as Faeroes or Witches. We must always find the right way and follow the steps that are right for us. We've got the best currents here that can clean up. But what lies ahead and is talked a lot about, the salmon lice, the pollution under the heifers, and the genetic mixture to release, is what has existed most in opponents of salmon, those who fight salmon farms. We must also understand their viewpoint. Farmers in the country have enormous interest in our careful choice that we do not come at some point to cause us to be responsible for damaging the abundant growth of rivers in the country, which has yielded natural huge profits to those who have and to us in the country. There are some details about the bill that I don't feel clear. But I'm going to give you a little thought about the bill first, about changing the law. So I say: Today, the world's most eco-friendly food production is exposed to fish farms. It is important that this is being done by law-employing the industry with emphasis on community, structure, environment, and knowledge. We are living in times where we face major challenges. One is the proliferation of mankind. To prevent this growth and food supply, environmental action must be taken as we eat at the same time to slow down global warming and the acidification of the sea. Sealines support such action, and it is time to make better use of the blue fields of the sea. It has never been more important to consider the environmental production of food. Marine farming has a low feed index. The food contains good energy and nutrition, the production efficiency is excellent, and the carbon track is shallow, and it can be recovered even further. Fishing in the sea falls under one of the 17 world goals of the United Nations, and this tells us a lot about the industry that has come to exist. In Iceland, there are ideal conditions for fishing in the sea. Already, the areas of activity that are authorised from a distance at wild salmon strains have been set aside. It's mostly on Western, Eastern and Eyjafjörður. During the West, there has been a reversal of the rapidly reduced population that has taken place in recent years and decades, and this reversal to fish farming has been attributed, and the branch still has much to do with it. The opportunities for growth in this article, job opportunities, and rural development are just the right to take root, so it is important to maintain the rightness of our pockets and to cherish the article that has all the potential to contribute well in the community and in the economic and economic contexts, but with the environmental considerations at all times. So nature should always enjoy the doubt. Then I'd like to refer to a scary picture we saw on RUS last year, and the nation was dying to show that there was a one - sided increase in life all over the earth that was ruined where salmon farming had come into existence. How sad it is when we receive such a one - sided sample of things that are the worst of them! I'm going to go on, chief. President: Buildings that have been defined as fragile areas of growth and that young people go back to their homes, where today they have the opportunity to work in their local education. It requires educated people, and some 80% of its work is in the country. Will this not be in harmony with what we have been looking at, the recent developments that have been on the land, especially following the future of the salathan in which we look at broken - down areas, watching the little TVs all around the country just disappearing? I speak as an Ólaustunist and see how my little community, my little TV monitor, is, in effect, on a falling foot. It's sad, since the 1994 population has gone from over 1,300 people, when I move here, down to 760 people now and never fewer since Ólafjörður was given a standard right before I was born. And I'm out of my easyest spoon, as you can see on the grass. However, direct jobs also produce as many indirect jobs. It is clear, then, that there is enormous employment development in areas that most are under attack. Let me mention a few activities for fun that are directly connected to the article. We know that it is fish farmers, biologists, food experts, fire managers, quality managers, sailors, ship managers, motorists, zoo doctors, fish engineers, drivers, personnel managers - I have a much longer list, I do not intend to tire of reading it - but more and more are employed, salesmen, distributors, and all of that, so we see that enormous interests are underneath. We will then talk about the fact that the Westerners have received a witness, EarthChck, as an uninvolved part of the country, and they go to sea with a high environmental food supply that does not require much electricity, not much water use or land use. I'd like to mention this. Last year, we visited Vestafjörður, and we learned how the fishing is being cultivated before being expanded. It was an adventure to observe how these scavengers are put in a discipline bowl before they become anything visible, how the human spirit has actually been near these plants, how they have gone between jars, grown, and prospered gradually until finally they are ready to expand. Then they're completely healthy and pollutionless, no lice and nothing. We know that the sleazy rivers do not come until the fish are expanded, and there is an abundance of condensation in the heifers and so on, but then the lice begin to strike the fish. I know that these efforts have been made to reduce drug abuse and to reduce drug abuse, and we have been fortunate in this regard compared with many others. That is why it is extremely important to pay close attention. So I don't think there's one thing in the bill that makes sense enough, i.e. When a minister speaks of sending a representative from the government once a month to take out and monitor what is going on in the fish culture. As Rebs have it, delegates come once a week. They check how the country's underseas, how it is polluted, and the waste from under the heifers, whether it accumulates too much and what is one. The lice are being measured. It's done once a week. I feel that we have to do this in order to be more at peace with everyone in the country, including those who are against salmon for their reasons, and to meet everyone. In order to overcome doubts, I feel that there is a great need for public members to be present and to be able to follow more closely on how to do so. Others are also very important, and they are the rules we have had, that no new income should be placed in an area that has been slaughtered until perhaps 6 Sources of 60,8 months later. By doing so, you can expand your cleaning and cleaning up. We have fine currents here so that there are good opportunities that we can offer clean heifers in a month or so. I think it's very important that these factors be explained. This is exactly the lesson that we can learn from the Faeroes because they have been really conscious of this and want to show by their actions that they are truly at peace and that they want to be at peace with nature and promise them the benefit of the doubt and are also at peace with their people. Because we know that this industry is here to be, we should build it up in as much harmony as possible. So far, we haven't had any comments. In contrast with all the standards and Witnesses who admit that things are well done, there have been no comments in the culture. But then it's time for these salmon exodus. How is it that we hear it repeatedly that this place releases salmon? How many we don't know. But now we know, and I guess we have a reason. The employment committee is given even more information in Norway that they have a real protection against these releases. In the event that they lose fish in the water, they have a counter into the river and other factors to be able to see and observe more, e.g. have divers who regularly enter the water to observe. It can be detected in cameras and other cameras where they are, where they are, and where they are not. We can get all of this up here. We can have an enormously powerful preconceived system, and we can be very diligent in resisting the fact that here will be some disaster that no one will care to come. It is estimated that the current temperature of the marine eco-efficiency and agri-gri-gri-future risk assessment will be established and effective. This will help to eliminate uncertainty and create a complete legal frame around Iceland's fish fires. However, a risk assessment must be based on the right and the necessary changes in order to minimise the real risks. The real-life data that companies have and will come up with to provide with this bill's legalisation, but there are a lot of demands on the access to corporate information. It also involves the modeling of the risk assessment of major counter measures taken by the fish farms, with the advantage of everyone, as stated earlier, that fish cannot escape. The cooperation of fish farms with institutions and governments is therefore absolutely essential. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I don't understand anything about this. I just got started and I'm just in gear, but I want to get on with my optimism and smile, no trouble. We must be able to do this professionally and effectively with the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u11	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize salmon farms. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk and a fine review of our trip to Norway last week, Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir As it turned out, and there's no need to repeat it, the business committee was a big educational committee. I thank the Council's Presidency Committee for making it possible to go to Norway, which has been on for quite some time, to study these matters. It is a natural 50 - year - old experience of salmon farming in the sea, and it is hard to move on in this country without studying what is done and how it has worked out, learns from the mistakes made, and adopts good and practical practices. I think it has been observed, in the case of the senators who have participated in this discussion now and before, that we really need to be careful and put down some lines of good work, and then we'll be fine. It was in 2004 that the General took a major step in making Iceland's regional coasts based on where and where to find seawater. Clearly, that decision has been very evident at the time, and the members of the council here have looked far into the future. Iceland is now considered one of the best places in the world to engage in salmon farming because of relatively cold water and high purity - this reduces the risk of lice epidemics, which is the most destructive in Norway; all of them go for it and work in an effort to reduce the damage to lice. In 2004, we made the decision to keep the land from the most valuable salmon fishing industry, so that we can build up these sectors in a relatively peaceful and consistent manner with those who are fishing for wild salmon in the rivers. It was an informed decision that even took place. the distance you are from salmon fishing year. This step is considerably larger than other fish breeders, and it is truly admirable, and it reflects responsibility and a vision for the future. In Norway, the entire coast is beneath us. If I recall, there are about 350 salmon companies on the beach, just north of Hammerfest and south of all Norway. As mentioned in the case of whatFriðbjörg Elíasdóttir In the past, the Norwegian authorities are setting up traffic lights to determine where to add salmon fuel in the next few years. A bill for changing fish farms gives some emphasis. It fosters the article so that uncertainty can be overcome by supporting the structure of the article in which sustainable development is held in high esteem; by promoting areas defined by the Council in 2004 as fish farms, as well as by increasing knowledge in this article. In effect, the Westerners already had the privilege of benefiting from the construction of marine farms, where the social influence of the article is immense. We have seen it, and a professional committee went there last year and studied fire there. Of course, it is admirable to see what is being done, and these laws are waiting for us to start working on them and to continue to increase the article. Job opportunities have been created especially for young people who are able to use their secular education without having to move away. For the first time in years and decades, people have been able to resist the growing numbers of Western society in recent years. We see that salmon fire is a growth wand. In the days leading up to this day, I read that in the coming decades, it would take 1,000 billion to keep up with the prosperity we live in today's world. So it would take 1,000 new billion in the box to keep us in good health care and education today. Where are we going to get that money? Clearly, there is very few opportunities in this country to increase the export rate more than in salmon farms, and that is exactly where we could increase national production. Building has increased significantly in Western Europe, development in areas defined as fracture prevention. Much of the article is involved, and potential for growth is high, especially after the uncertainty is eliminated and the article creates a good, sensible frame. Then there will also be the speciality of the Westerners. It is easily possible to develop farms and raise the fish to an ideal size before being taken to sea pens. Since Westerners have clean, cold waters and have no sites like them, it is a unique opportunity to produce Icelandic fish in a sustainable and environmental way. After production, Icelandic fish farms have a unique product; Icelandic salmon is born under ideal conditions in a unique environment. The country's fires contain large blue maladies, and this is an ideal opportunity to use them with environmental views and social strength guided by them. This was also shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Sæland Savourland, today's opening of marine farms is one of the most environmentally friendly food production available in the world today. The use of feed is truly good. For each kilogram of food, one kilogram of a product is available. That hardly happens anywhere else in life. It has been found that despite its controversy here, the Norwegian salmon has proved to be a foundation in Norway and here and in many parts of the world. For example, Australia is starting salmon in Tasmania, where it will be used as Norwegian salmon and has few countries in the world if anyone with more severe control and animal import requirements. We're using the best species of fish available. Of course, it is important to be careful when establishing laws about salmon farming. The risk assessment is a major factor, and its counter measures are also an important factor in preventing genetic preparation, that it will be almost excluded. Thus, it is as if it is salmon or other that it is always associated with certain dangers and environmental impacts. You cannot do anything in your job life without causing any disorder in your environment. But we have to be careful that all aspects of breeding are possible, and especially the risk assessment and that the proposal for counterweight measures will follow, of course. There was a mention of remuneration and the rural communities in that regard. It is also important that rural society benefit from salmon fire. A fish - breeding fund is designed to be able to collect money, but in the near future it needs to be better outlined. In Norway, excess fuel is sold to 120,000 NOK tons. It is offered, and at the last auction, the tons of 16,000 NOK sold, and 80% of it goes to the farm society where salmon farms are. We need to consider how we can make sure that our rural society receives as much payment as possible as possible from the salmon fire. Laxeldi can stand in one place, in one place, and in another's slaughter so that the income of a harbor fund will not be left in one place alone. So we need to examine it, and our rural communities must have a meaningful share in trying to find ways to get some of the cookies available to everyone. I'm not gonna spend long time paying for salmon fire. I think we need to get this article started and it needs to develop and grow stronger. Of course, it must be paid for the culture and for the slaughter and payment to the community. Research that is very important must be paid for, and education also needs to be paid. In Norway, salmon companies have helped to support the education of oceanographers, and I know that the Southnsian Institute for Fish Technology has shared in this, along with the Norwegian schools, preparing school. It is important that we not forget that salmon farms will be involved in strengthening education to make the most qualified individuals working around salmon fires, just as the school does around the sea, and it is extremely important to increase knowledge there. At the end of this brief talk, a brief overview of a subject that will undoubtedly be the work assignments of a professional committee for a while, I want to be sure that I can look forward to the challenges that will take place there. What will be considered in the next few days is a wealth of information that will be poured on us, members of the Committee, and quite clear that all of us will work hard to produce a good product, which the Council can eventually take. I reiterate that our trip to Norway benefited us greatly. We will live in the work that lies ahead to look up the points you wrote there and the lessons we received in Bergen. Also, it was amazing to be on the Allied Work Board and to see that the Icelandic job life was in total foreclosure at this conference. Our innovation companies had a special day on Tuesday last week, where they presented their products. There was a crowd at a meeting of 900 people that began on Wednesday morning with Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Danmerk, and of the first six speakers at that convention were five Icelanders. A man was proud to see and to hear how long Iceland's people stand and how respected our fishing roads and innovations are. In 2003, I stopped working in fish, and everything about fishing has become a total generation change in Iceland. There is an Icelandic company. It is an Icelandic skill that is at the head of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u12	The president believes that the prime minister of Norway is Erna Solberg, while Lars Løkke Rasmussen is prime minister for correction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for history. There is one factor that really burns in my mind right now that I did not come to speak in my speech earlier, and I would like to point to it. A senator, this is the part of the bill in which the Oceanographic Institute is actually set up on both sides of the board, which would now not normally be a problem of government. There, both research and suggestions are being made, and at the same time, to make decisions. This has not been considered successful. We have experienced judicial decisions as to what is involved, when an investigation took place in the district, and then it was the one who personally judged the case he had investigated. It was thought to be a violation of human rights, though it is now in another spirit. Yet, here we are talking about careful government practices. I'm asking why. A member of the council whether he feels a reason for us to examine further the fact that in this case the Narcotic Institute is put in a position to sit at both sides of the table, both in position of research and decision - making.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u14	A respectable president. I thank you for the councilman's inquiry. I think that is how the bill assumes that the minister in itself can reject the proposed assessment. Then it's just the food you already have. On the other hand, I agree completely, and it has been my opinion that the scientists can offer their suggestions, and then it is the responsibility of Congress and Minister to hold the political responsibility for the results presented, as is done in the fishing system. I know we'll take a special look at this in the Committee. Also important is the fact that there is great peace and harmony in this matter. Of course, we need to discuss with the members of this matter, and at the end of that discussion, my final stand for this matter will be made known. But I'm more about to say that political responsibility follows all the issues we have here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u15	Thank you. The senator's answer. There's also something else that goes out there on the bill that I think may be a little bit more contrary to what we're talking about, that the ultimate power is here. In fact, it comes out as if a minister is willing to give up his power, plainly. Too bad I'm not just talking back to the minister, but he's at least on the sideline. I'm thinking about this exactly, a decision to make that arrangement really is possible. It is necessary to separate advisers from administrations on the other hand. I will then direct it to a minister in the future. But in this case, it was what seemed a little scary to me at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u16	A respectable president. I think I've been pretty much aware of this earlier in my previous answer. It is vital that this delicate matter bring about great peace or as much peace as possible. The risk assessment is one of the major factors that will be discussed. In the Norway tour, it became very clear that an institution, their Marine Research Institute, has only study responsibilities and provides suggestions for a minister who then makes his final decision. I came into my mind earlier. She's in a hurry. I believe political decisions, important for us and the community, should be taken from us, who are for that purpose. However, I will examine the significance of this wording in the bill for the conclusion of the matter and trust it to cooperate fully with the professional committee members who were now only pleasantly compatible on this journey. We discussed this particular matter only, and we will review it with the business in which it is due, and the results will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u17	Mr. President. We here discuss a large case that has been discussed for a long time, a bill to correct the change in various laws associated with fish farms. It was also discussed at the last assembly, but it was considered a reason to consider it better and to reexamine it, in contrast with criticism that had established it, and to see if there could be any conflicting views. The matter has been reexamined and is now made up of many changes that I believe are beneficial and positive. Unfortunately, this case has gone into conflict, at least can be used by certain servers. I don't think it's a good idea that it had to be done. But this may not be unusual, considering that it is new for us Icelanders, to go into a vast business in a marine farm. There may be dangers for wild salmon and for our environments above our heads, such as carrier resistance and other diseases that can come from aquaculture. When we discussed the matter with a professional health - care committee last year, I felt that we were all trying to study these matters as we could best. We presented ourselves in southern West Fjords last year, and it turned out to be very up - to - date and interesting to see what a company there has done. Then we were able to travel last week to Bergen, Norway, and learn about the port of the North Sea and what man has been doing there. Norwegians are not newborns in these matters. From 1970 onward, they have been on aquaculture. They have experienced various events, related to both the environment and its wild salmon. There are plenty of salmon rivers all over Norway's shores and vast numbers and different species of wild salmon depending on what is involved. The Norwegians have dealt with these matters, and they have the same concerns as many people in this country. I believe we can learn much from their experience and don't need to fall into the same pit with various factors, and they may have done in their time. They have gone very far in all the monitoring and environmental requirements of the marine farm, the technology of all, and the fishing environment. During our trip, we meet a representative of a local marine research agency and a representative of the fishing facility there and a number of scientists at NORCE, which are involved in the study of fish farming and its effects, both social and environmental. We were able to visit a family business in a fish farm until 50 years of age, outside Beren, Blom. There we looked at the latest technology and equipment in the fire. There, traveling services are invited to study the fire and to see a museum connected with it. We also met with representatives of three environmental organizations in Norway, where we had a good conversation. These people have criticized fish farms from different sides, and many of them prefer largely to go up to shore. This may not be a great possibility, since land does not exist where fish farming is today and is considered to be much less productive. Then, people have spoken to a closed heifer and a goatfish. All of this is developing, but has not been successful enough to allow Norwegians to be alone with these factors, even though they continue to study and explore their potential. What I felt was the extent and scope of cohesion and cohesion on the basis of so broad are the basis for many people before a risk assessment is issued by a marine research agency. This is taken into account in Iceland. There are counter-regulating operations with cameras, monitoring, and watching to release larger items. They send divers to remove salmon from rivers if you see cameras and watch that some farmed salmon has escaped. All areas are marked by risks and tolerability, so - called traffic lights, whether they are green areas or red where there is no burden tolerance for more fire. All of this, I think, is an example, and we can learn a lot from it. I believe that by changes in this bill, e.g. the definition of the risk assessment of genetics should be taken into account in order to assess compensatory measures. The National Institute of Geological Research has the legal opportunity to look at benefits that would improve the risk assessment of the respective areas. I think it's very important that the first change is made so that we can do it as best and that we don't take risks about genetic preparation. If there are accidents, immediate action is possible. I think that's a lot of progress on this bill. The bill also says that certain farming centres should implement a quality system as part of an internal check, which was not in the previous bill. I also think it is a great improvement and look to the Committee that perhaps we need to raise environmental witness in the food industry, make a much higher environmental witness and that the companies who have received environmental witnesses with international standards for their production are also inclined in some way, just as it is determined in favor of unfertilised salmon experiments. If I look back at what is being done out in Norway for what has been criticized here, that the minister does not have his final decision on the risk assessment, but is the Marine Research Institute that gives a legalized risk assessment finally, although a minister certainly has the possibility of not accepting it and the value of the previous risk assessment, it is not such in Norway, telling the NTSB that they are not political parties and should not carry this administrative responsibility, it is the government of the government to do so. Perhaps we need to take care of this focal point in Iceland, to those concerned about genetic mix and environment, to take the steps at once, to achieve greater agreement on the implementation of the law and to see how we do things. Since we have learned a lot from the Faeroe Islands and the Norwegians, I would feel that this area of consultation could be presented to these views that the Marine Research Institute can counterweightize and take them into account in its own risk assessment. It is, of course, a pleasure. I hope we succeed in this work. I stress that most people who have opinions on it are calling out for the best and most information so that we can discuss this objectively and under the guidance of the facts. We also need to have a wide spread in what scientists have to say, that we call scientists from different directions, not only scientists within our ideal facility, the Oceanographic Institute, but also from the university community. Of course, it has come forward to the stage where scientists, who have not been satisfied with the risk assessment process, as it was before in the bill we covered last, based on today, feel that there is a need to examine much better, and that there has been insufficient time to build it up so that it can be said to be final. This bill, however, is also saying that the risk assessment needs to be alive. There must be room for us to consider some technological advances and developments in these existing issues that are being worked out by our cousins, the Norwegians, and the Faeroes. I know that fishing will be a great source for many settlements. This results in a strong and positive effect on the economy. This conversation may have been forgotten many times. Sea farms have raised Norway's settlements on the region, strengthening them economicly to a great extent. It's 80,485 percent, and it reminds me of the warrants to the settlement. This has contributed immensely to the development of rural areas. We are taking these early steps to have a good and healthy regular work around this article, a regular work based on environmental factors, economic factors, and social factors. We need to continue to develop this model, that rural communities also receive the best income from marine farms as well as the nation all. A smaller contact is seen in this article, that they have the potential and that those who have been pioneers in their territory have the potential to compete with the big ones. I think there's one thing we need to look at in this bill right now, to give these smaller people a chance to be with a smaller family company, as compared to what we examined at Bergen at dawn. The bill has addressed various factors that are very helpful to achieve. Then we will make an effort to work with this work committee to make the most of it with all stakeholders and, of course, the environment and communities in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u18	Mr. President. We'll talk about fish farms at the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers. Like the others here mentioned, I have just been back for the past week with other members of the committee. A work board in Bergen, Norway, to attend a conference on fishing and fishing, and to get to know Norwegian views from different sides. The journey was the most beneficial, and I thank the committees, especially the president. Named, what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for the safe leadership as soon as I thank you. Presidency committee for enforcing the mission. I believe that the main reason for this is that we are offering fish farming as a new and growing industry. It creates employment, income, and subsidies in the country. It is important to work closely with local inhabitants. Mr. President. In some respects, fishing has the same characteristics as noise. It uses natural resources and results in pollution of its environment. It is impossible for me to intend in this matter to give a discount of any price on pollution. The pollution has many aspects. First, of course, the possibility of genetic contamination of wild salmon strains is at risk. There must be knots to protect wild salmon populations in Icelandic rivers that have developed and adapt to conditions since the end of the ice age. I allow myself to mention in this context, Mr. President, that I miss the fact that the bill does not seem to address the conclusions made by the Aggressor's genetic committee, which has sent down certain, in fact, very pointed, a warning in this relationship. It was 2017, but this no doubt will come much further in the first place. Work committee, then 2nd. Another pollution caused by this activity is to form waste that falls to the bottom of the open seashells. There are toxins to work on salmon lice where it is, large problems in Norway, as known by man, and medicines for disease, e.g. in the kidneys of salmon fish. The bill contains a number of opinions that need to be discussed very closely at the beginning of the year. A professional health committee. Like other speakers, I'd like to be able to face the risk assessment. It is early in theoretically seen. In fact, the number 4%, which is often experienced by humans, does not seem to exceed criticism in view of the fact that salmon travel data between rivers, i.e. wild salmon, and to what extent they participate in ovulation with other strains may influence the character of this number. Although this figure is considered valid, for example, in Norway, when it comes to risk assessment, it may be necessary, in view of this and other factors that are presented in very helpful comments already available on the subject of government consultations, to reevaluate that figure according to Icelandic circumstances. Mr. President. In fact, it does not appear that the risk assessment has taken the necessary scientific approach. I'll be like the rest of us. Similarly, members of Parliament illustrate doubts about the governmental aspect, if the word is correct, regarding the decision to make a risk assessment. In particular, I would like to illustrate doubts about the proposed opportunities of consultation and his dealings with a marine research agency, which in some respects appears to threaten the independence of that valuable scientific institution. These regulations require careful consideration. Then I would also like to be able to establish the rules for the distribution of areas of fire, especially the rules found in Article 3. the bill that appears to be a variety of shades, e.g. the assessment of what is considered to be the most beneficial offer, as it were, in the distribution of areas of fire. As to the administrative principle of the bill, I would like to say that the management agency as it appears to the industry should be simple and effective as possible. Of course, there are many organizations involved. Thus, it cannot be avoided that the management board involves the introduction of more people. I'm gonna let me tell you I think that's what I'm gonna do. The employment committee will have to check if a fish lab should have no more part in monitoring the sector than is expected in the bill. It is an independent aim to create knots, to make up the permission force and requirements of enterprises on environmental insurance, to ensure that state funds are best protected from potential damages requirements, e.g. Because of environmental damage and damage to other people's property. Mr. President. Borrowing Laws on Fishing No. 71/2008. Law No. 49/2014 is recommended for provisional regulations marked IV that the fish stocking law is reviewed in its entirety. I have to admit that we have a review of the case, i.e. a lecture on the bill, and by studying the many well - arranged reviews, I was constantly thinking about this law. I've asked myself if it wasn't right to send the bill back to the Ministry with the idea that they're going to put a bill on a global review of fish farms rather than the pieces we've got here. Mr. President. After all, I'd like to say, "Let's take this business easy." Let's live with it, and let's work with the locals in the areas where the business is taking place. But we do not give a discount on pollution prevention requirements with the aim of protecting wild salmon and biodiversity and otherwise the natural world. We also do not give a discount from taxation in the article compared to what happens and walk into our neighboring countries, especially those we would like to compare ourselves with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u19	V.E.G. President. Here is a fish farmers' bill on changing the laws associated with fish farms (evaluation risk assessment of genetics, distribution of farms, administrative fines, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s This is a change to law No. 71/2008, with subsequent changes. Since we have just arrived from Norway, this discussion will be my meditation after that trip. Because of the atmosphere discussed in fish farming at home, I'd like to be careful about a few things. The discussion is usually black and white. They often play into prejudice and fear, often resulting from poor information. However, I would like to state that it is of utmost importance that we try. Norwegian fish farmers say that experience has taught them that community information is necessary and contributes to a much better way of getting along with society. We need to implement such an arrangement in Iceland. That's my food. Risk assessment and periprandial assessment are combined in a number of ways. The bill that is now before the council considers the risk assessment of most people, as it is implemented, the biggest stumbling block, especially that the sea is in some respects seated on both sides of the table. According to the bill, it is suggested that Brother Vow be offered fire food, but the government will make a decision on the basis of counseling. That's the right way. Such a risk assessment is a strategy that needs to be developed and that needs to be ongoing. However, risk assessment must not be incomplete at the beginning that subsequent studies underlie business management or that all companies in a particular area are always sold under the same hat. In this case, I'm saying that companies who do well in the environment will not be paid for the mistakes of others. In all likelihood, it has been authorized to reduce the production of territory, as if it were a wise step at Strayro, which required counter measures. The priorities and risk factors must always be well-founded and well-founded. It is unnatural that Hálro would also take scientific counseling and administrative authority. The arrangement that the same agency sits on either side of the table allows for the risk of controlling professional scientific work. The scientific side and the cause are to be separated. The responsibility must always be the politicians. The discussion of the genetic preparation of fish with wild strains has been considerable. Of course, we need to realize that the use of unfertilized salmon is still in an experimental stage. The salmon species are also defined as being wild and who are not. Where to draw the line? In many rivers, both in Norway and in Iceland, it has been released over the years. Some years of salmon today had no fish before. These years have been cultivated with shambles. I'd like to tell you that the sharp surface of the ocean was somewhat evident during the moment, but it wasn't seen today. What happened to the fish that did not come back when the seafish fire was called? Here, in my opinion, we need to examine things carefully and get a conversation between people who are at or against us. 50 years'experience with fish farming in Norway does not mean that Norwegians are completely caught up with wind. New challenges are always being faced, and they will do so in the future. This bill, if it becomes the law, should be a living document. We'll have to reconsider if necessary. The risk assessment should be reviewed on a regular basis and applied to the area of consultation proposed in the bill. On the basis of the current trends, genetic mixture is integrated in the risk assessment assessment report. This is because, in the evaluation, it is expected that genetic preparation will be monitored and when undefined genetic mixtures are confirmed, the Agency will reduce the production rights of the enterprises to reduce potential genetic mixtures. There is no mention of any action to prevent, intervene, and/or prevent potential gene mixture from occurring. This is a fundamental problem of thinking in the approach involved in the Edro risk assessment. We must not place something that, if necessary, cannot be changed. The concern of the local food courts is understandable. Their interests are great. Many of them, including farmers who earn a substantial amount of fishing, must have a voice. Of course, we do not want to harm them. However, I believe it is right to point out the actions of the Norwegians. For example, in Norway there is a standard government practice to monitor the progress of fish fish in Norway. The divers make sure that they catch fish that are suspected or infected with fish. Cameras are used to monitor and are placed in most rivers. Light controls are on a high scale, but this technology will probably become more powerful and help a lot if you find fish in that river. When contrasting the experiences of various nations with fire, we must compare places with situations similar to our circumstances. The environment of the North Noregi and Iceland is much more likely to compare than the environment in South Norway. It plays into landscapes, but not least the temperature of a colder sea, just like an area. The temperature of the ocean has a major impact on the growth of salmon lice, which is a far greater problem in the South Norges due to warm seas. Many methods are used to deal with salmon lice, including Organic defenses, however, are on the decline. The experience of the Norwegian people of landland is low and should be corrected for rumors and claims. Farming is not growing much, as many say here; farming equipment is both an animal, and evolution is not on its way. For example, a vessel has exploded, causing both financial damage and human accidents and even death. High - quality landscapes are rapidly developing, but the current situation does not produce sealed covens that withstand high tides. This technology, however, has become ineffective. At home, such heifers are said to tolerate only 1.5 feet [1.5 m] high. Regarding the range of fish farms in this country, the quantity of fish fish has yet to be seen. In contrast, the Norwegian heads for 5 million tons of salmon farms by 2050. Consider this: After the 50 years of their experience, Norwegians are very prominent in fish farming. Of course, we need to make sure that the damage caused by fish farming will be improved, whether it is pollution damage or other environmental damage. But there must always be valid in both ways. We must be reasonable with those who are in the fire. This operation must not be cut off without benefit. The insurance cases of fish farming need to be good for major damage, whether it is insurance insurance for construction or equipment. I would especially like to say at the end that we should be in the front row regarding healthy fish. We are to be careful and make as much peace as possible between parties, the many stakeholders involved. For fun, one of the things we've been able to see about the development of oceanic fires is that Northmen are developing a fire that's out in the ocean, out in the ocean, or at least at the drawing table. That fire is similar to that of oil potholes who can endure in the ocean's eye. Then we are naturally talking about a completely different source of pollution. Regarding the exchange discussion, I believe that there is another matter in another area with a special bill, as well as a fishing bill in the fishing road. There's not enough money in the bank, as I understand them in Norway. Norwegians are more talking about the fees and the like, but I'm not quite sure about that. It was a very informative trip and enlightenment, and we get more information from this world and we need to be careful in this work. There's a lot of value here. It's also a threat to the natural world, and we need to listen to every person on this story, as I said earlier. I think we're more likely to do that after this trip than before we left.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u20	A respectable president. We are dealing with a bill about changing the law on fish farming that is being introduced today. It's supposed to be a celebration. It's very good that we have it, and I'm looking forward to dealing with the job on a professional committee. I believe we've become quite informed about the matter since our trip to Norway and the same coverage last year. This is of utmost importance, for this is a big matter and is the means by which we promote and strengthen professional life in our country. We need to have more baskets under our eggs, and this industry is one way to add the flea. As shown during our trip to Norway, this is the largest branch in the oil industry there. They have been able, in this 50 - year - old history of fish farming, with their emphasis and challenges, to build it up so that they look forward to even greater growth. They look for five times the fire, up to five million tons. It's government policy. Perhaps it is a question of whether they can achieve it at the rate they are currently at. With the bill, we can say that we are moving on to a further policy change and policy development in these issues that are of enormous importance. In recent years, the environment that fish fire has been in recent years, and in recent years, it has been far too delicate. Those people who have planned to go out into this have not been able to step up as if by autumn, when this was just pulled out. So we saved it at the last minute. We must shape a set course and a measure of action that people can accept, both those who are thinking about the environment and those who are involved in a job structure - and especially the communities around this industry. In 2004, a major step was taken in these matters when we decided to keep this sector in certain areas. Then we looked to the West, part of East Fair and Eyjafjörður. I think it was a big step that other nations have not taken. But we are determined to do so, and we are not going to try to get away from it. We want to look to the environment, and the importance of those factors is enormous. I think watching the environment will be the main theme of working on this bill. There are two instruments that we can use in this regard: risk assessment and weight tolerance. Speaking of carrier tolerance assessment, I think we can look to Norway in that relationship, to this traffic control, to be sure. We need to be very careful, and marine life is of utmost importance. Then I think carrier food is important and we need to monitor the organic pressures in those areas, as it says in the bill, that they will be watched very well and react when it is found that they are not going to do so well. Then there is the risk assessment. That's what I'd like to look at, that's what it needs to be more developed. The risk assessment is a control device that has been used but may be in childhood. We need to look for a powerful instrument. Then, too, we need to perform counter measures, which are mentioned in Article 1. that we take into account counter measures. But it may be a little hairy and needs to be more defined through the bill. Risk assessment turns to genetic mixture with wild salmon. It is known, genetic preparation is a fact. Salmon escapes the fire and thus there is a risk of genetic mixture in the river to the wild strain. What can we do to help us cope? Yes, we can come in strong with counter measures. We may be able to compare this to the danger of driving a car. We can roll the car, and driving too fast can cause accidents. Instead of forbidding people to drive a car, however, we set a wide range of rules. We have a safety belt, we can't run drunk, we have limitations at speed and so on. We can view counter measures as such rules that we need to set in order to minimize the dangers of seacaping can create for the wild trunk. This is of utmost importance. It is stated in the bill that the Minister confirmed the risk assessment of genetics by the proposal of the Marine Research Institute and that the proposal will be binding to the Minister. That's what I think, perhaps, is a bit of a delicate position and perhaps not necessarily an acceptable position as a scientific institution - that it has this political power or this administrative authority. The researchers of the Agency need to work on the grounds that they are considered scientists, but they are not in political policy. This is a subject we need to discuss more on the Committee than I mention it here. It matters, and it also matters that it will be won so that counter measures will be taken into account in this risk assessment, that the result will be that we can apply it. I think there may be a way to set up some stage photos. which is popular in various matters. There are a wide range of scenarios for risk - risk assessment - taking into account these compensatory measures. We can, in this regard, look very hard on Norway. They have this alarm - traffic light control, monitoring the drop of larger cells in the heifers. These are all factors that are extremely important and should be looked forward to strengthening the risk assessment. It is important that a Merition Institute has reason to consider these counter measures in its calculations. Perhaps I'd rather discuss the business trip to Norway. She was very good, and others were what she was. Senators have returned her here. I'm glad the bill was submitted and we're filled with will to continue it on a professional committee. I'd like to mention some things we need to look to. In particular, we need to guide the environmental issues through our decision making. We're talking about the wild salmon stock here at land and marine life. It is a food industry that is very sensitive. If anything happens, it's quick to fall down. The market is very sensitive to all such emphasis, and I think it will be even more in the future, that we look more closely at these factors when we buy products or such. To this end, I look forward to the work being done on a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u21	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for this council meeting. This was so that the case was scheduled last week during the job committee, as noted earlier, in Bergen, Norway, to learn about the history and current fish farms in that country. The nature of the matter has said that some members of the committee felt that way because at least I did. with great interest in getting the knowledge into the council as best and best of all, I expect it to be the whole purpose of such committee tours. It is a pleasure, therefore, that the president took these criticisms into account and put this meeting on the program today and gives members of the committee an opportunity to participate in the 1st. this bill on fish farming risk at the highest level. A marine and agricultural minister puts out here. The trip was successful, as the rest of the committees have made. It was interesting, and I can truthfully say that we got to hear the vast majority of the issues in fish farming in a careful scientific manner. I appreciate that trip and that opportunity. I'm going to start by speaking a little bit from our policies on fish farming, and then I'm just going into my own position and trying to work it together, even though it's clear what's coming from the person that follows, what my conclusions are and what information I obtained in it, and where the Pirans stand against fish farms. Pirata's policy on the environment and, according to Pirata's policy of protection, is one of the fundamental laws of so-called precaution. I'm gonna go back to what the rule of caution is. One of the basic principles of risk management is called a rule of caution. It can be explained as saying that implementation or policy may cause harm to the public or to the environment, and the lack of scientific assurance of such damage is not enough to prevent preventive measures. In other words, if there is any doubt about the effect of an operation, it is not until certain that the negative effects of that operation can be prevented. The principle is that all policy-makers of Pirata's environmental and resource activities are based on the principle. Says even of Pirata Environmental Policy, by permission of President: The Commission shall base on the safety precautions and the payment order for all decisions relating to Iceland's nature. And also says Pirata's policy on protection of the ocean, again by permission of the President: The environmental assessment of the environment in which nature is able to enjoy the doubt will depend on the balance of life and biodiversity of the ocean. It is clear that the current fish farm environment in open water still does not meet the conditions of the precaution. It doesn't matter whether the legislation, the Minister's Regulation, the monitoring of the institutions of the state, or only the initiatives of an enterprise engaged in fish farming in Iceland, while this rule is not met, it is unacceptable to us to justify fish farming in open seas in Iceland. The danger of genetic contamination with wild fish is too high, and the consequences are too costly. If farming is mixed with wild salmon it will interfere with the environment. This need not be often or extensively affected permanently on the environment and on the reputation of commercial salmon fishing over the last few decades. Therefore, I agree with the comments of other committees that no environmental benefits must be given on fish farms. In Norway, fishing has been practiced for half a century, and the Norwegian people have made a huge mistake from which the nation has learned. The results of this lesson are made up of enormous safety requirements, follow-up, repairs, and clear responsibility of the partner. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, arrived earlier that in Norway, the public has good access to information about local fish farms. There's information available to the public in the context of a model fire and something I think Iceland and I should clearly introduce and follow. Now I come more onto my own position that I have built following my visit to Bergen, Norway. The General Department of Professional Relations. As I mentioned at the outset, the vast number of things came up and were pleasant to say that we received a comprehensive, well - prepared presentation on the vast majority of the sides of the case. We heard from scholars, professional drivers, other stakeholders, and from players as well as about their view of fish farming at sea. Even if it is in my opinion that an exciting job creation is possible, and of course we live on an island where it is actually quite a reason to have such a fire because of geographic conditions, then at the same time a major and serious question arises around the sector that it is necessary to resolve rapidly and effectively from if that professional means to use us as a nation and in order for general reconciliation to be the subject. So far, the situation is not that. Here, as in most places, a fishing industry is disputed, and there are good reasons for what I will trace. A significant criticism has established the approach in the risk assessment, and although several members of the council have entered it today and I would like to agree with them. She turns to the Oceanographic Institute and its presence on both sides of the table. It is not quite fair to place such responsibility upon a government agency. As we have seen, it is so important that we, elected representatives, although, of course, have a very valuable role in the decision - making process of the council and the Supreme Court. Minister too, I can give myself. I don't have time to be overly critical of the risk management point, but there are things like there's no probable distribution. I'm not going to go into something technical, I just don't have time for it. As mentioned earlier, responsibility seems to be placed on their shoulders rather than a political position on the risk assessment. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Sæland Goland came on as the problem on the bill that Iceland's National Research Institute is sitting on both sides of the table. They are commissioned to ask the questions and as well as to answer them. More emphasis must be applied at the beginning of the fishing season. In Norway, they have experience with industry and industry, and these are such important counter measures and preventative measures that it would be a total failure of us as a nation that is starting out with some serious means of not taking advantage of them to the full. These include light controls and larger grids. Norwegians watch the rivers all year round, anyway, while there's danger of escapes. In case of an emergency, the fish farmers themselves have a legal role in reporting such cases, and they don't do so, the penalty is enormously high. We heard of just one case where it wasn't reported, but the scientists can, at the same time, trace through genetic analysis where the fish came from and escaped. There was a company that could not report the case and was fined, a high fine that the company did anyway. This is something we obviously need as a nation to keep inside the law. The firm is all of a willingised company, I understand, to take initiative in preventing pollution accidents, but it needs to be explained in the law of the country to be someone so gossipy, excuse me, it may not be the most beautiful word, it's the product. Norwegians have stressed that the responsibility lies largely in the business itself, that there are repercussions in the absence of the criteria that need to be applied with extreme care. They're watching the rivers. If there's a drop-out crash, we're going to start a system to clean it up. The fish are caught. We saw pictures of it, and it was very interesting to see that there go divers and pick up the fish out of the river. The same was true. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the professional trade committee, suggested that it would be a good idea to be motivated like an environmental witness instinct so that the companies who do well get to enjoy it in their business. I'm sorry, I'm running out of time. It would be nice to discuss the matter more, but fortunately, it's only 1st. And it's good to be part of it. Now it goes to a committee, and I expect there is an enormous amount of work on the committee. There seems to be some parapolitic agreement about not cutting this off. I give tremendous emphasis that this must be done well and on the reputation of the article itself. It's in everyone's best interest. If this goes wrong, and if there's been an accident, it's ruined so much, which I don't think it's necessary. You can do it well, and we just have to do it. But I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson son of Isun above the fact that it was not wrong for the bill to return to the Ministry and for a complete review. This is the big issue that has to do with the nation's best interests. I'd like to think of the nation as the largest stake in the case. One thing that hasn't been made up, and I wanted to have more time to go out there. Entering, e.g. The cover of the PETA Animal Protection Association is not particularly beautiful reading on the way fish feel. There are often hundreds of thousands of fish in heifers and natural attempts to limit space as much as possible. Fish are designed to swim in large waters, and thus, excuse the sleigh, President. This is not particularly fitting, they stumble into one another, and some become blind, and others become deaf. This is a point that had not been established enough in Norway, and as far as I know best, it has not been observed in the conference room today. There are also ways and solutions to the matter, as well as all kinds of advice and admiration that can be considered, and of course we should set a pattern in these too. Not only is it the future of all such sectors but also our conscience as a national one is taking it into account and talking about it. Now I'm at the end. There is one thing we need to ask ourselves about and discuss. Senators have entered a collection of the resource uses and are looking a little here from the fact that the resource use is not paid in this context, but there is no time to discuss it. I thank you for the discussion, and I look forward to working along with these issues. A professional committee I had a very pleasant trip to Norway last week. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u22	A respectable president. I want to be like other members of Congress to thank you for making this journey, which is well meant by the more frequent action made by members of Congress. That is why we should not be shy about saying: "We are going to study what has been done in similar matters. We are about to develop an entire industry, such as fish farming, and that is exactly what we will learn from mistakes and what is done well in other places, whether it is for the Norwegians or for the Faeroes, who are our brothers and sisters in this regard. Rather, it was cruel to experience the fact that it worked as part of the Committee, at least as well as the government groups, knowing that it was possible to discuss this matter last week while the committee was away. It is not an acceptable method, nor is it a failure to build up trust in as important as this. I don't see this case as a government case or that the government opposition is to be done because it comes from the government. I don't look at things that way, either this case or anyone else. When we are building a industry that can have significant economic and social significance for us Icelanders, it is important that we try to be careful. First of all, we try to spend a little time together, not stuffing things through while all the employment committees are gone. It's like discussing money during the removal of a legal committee. I'm critical. I particularly strongly criticize the president for this and Minister for not delaying the discussion until today. But all right, we've come here with this important thing. Many of the most interesting things are presented in this matter. Minister. There's a lot missing, too. I can tell you right away that it's the natural currency, how we're supposed to take the resource fees and our licenses. We may be embarrassed not to discuss it at the same time because that is how we get a bigger picture. I point out that we must find a remuneration means that ensure certain resource costs for fish farming in the land, resource costs that could exactly return to the local habitat of fish farms to build up wood. It's not enough for me to see that there's only a guarantee in the Environmental Protection Agency that we need to examine this whole situation. We're told to wait, and I think it's complicated, and I think it's more complicated than the other. I'll emphasize it, just like, you know. Yeah. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir stressed, that the environment will, of course, be a major factor in this. They become a very heavy part of all the work that lies ahead of them. I told you earlier and earlier today that I think it's important for some environmental minister to come in here. V.E.G. A seafaring minister arrives at the committee meeting tomorrow according to the planned schedule. I would like an environmental minister to come and talk with us and say his side of the matter, and maybe he has just set things right in there as they are right now. I'd like to draw out that I think this case is a little parapolitic. I can see different voices, just different priorities on the opposite side, and that's interesting. I find it a challenge for us at the council to try to be careful because we now have a unique opportunity to create frames for a current job - and it's not that it hasn't started. Fish farming has begun in Iceland. This is a unique opportunity for us Icelanders, the Allied Assembly of Iceland, to do things that were most widely and with the greatest peace. I think the key to that is through the environment and that we listen to the demands and what is called. I also think the fish farms are very well aware of that. It is not a matter of compromising demands or taking some mountain backways. It is now very open and forthcoming. I strongly emphasize that the article itself takes it to heart. The Norwegian bank manager did not say long ago that he focused on investing and businesses in Norway taking climate and environment into all his plans. It would be economic but also moral right into the future. I agree with it, make his words mine, and direct them to the fish farms. This is also the key to what I come to later, how we can get at the highest price for our products. Let us bear in mind that there are not just Norwegians in fish farms. As we have seen, by 2050 they will reach 5 million tons, 1.1 million today, 1.2 if we take rainbow trout into the same body. In Chile, they had 400,000, dropped to 100,000 because they made a lot of mistakes. They went crazy, they lost salmon, and there was a lot of salmon lice, a lot of trouble there. Laxeldi and fish farms are returning, and they are in my mind, some 300,000 tons, and their policy is reaching 700,000. I think it is inevitable to ask if we Icelanders would like to participate in increasing food production in the world. Remember, too, that in 2050, I recall, the figures are from FAO, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, up to 10 billion on earth. That means we need to increase food production by up to 50%. Today we have less than 5% of the food produced from the ocean. As Cousteau Cousteau said in his day, immediately in 1973, one of the major scientists in oceanology, deep - watered waters, environment, and scientists said that because of the increased human demand for food, more food, we would have to look to the sea, new knowledge, and new technology. Do we Icelanders want to be part of this? Or should we just let others handle this? I don't think it's very responsible if we as a nation who knows how to manage natural resources are going to pass it on. But then we must also take the lead in setting strict rules, stricter rules in my opinion than the Norwegians and the Faeroes have. One of the things Faeroes did and put them on the straight path - they now produce 75,000 tons, which is about 75,000 tons. what the risk assessment here at home allows us to do, which is 71,000 - was that they said: "We're going to have the strictest rules, more strict than Norwegians. I think this is a very strong guide and that we should say, "We're going to have a lot more strict rules, and we're going to make more demands than both the Ents and the Norwegians. Today, we have a risk assessment of 71,000 tons, 50,000 west and 21,000 east, based on last year's risk assessment. The Eyjafjörður remains, is a burden - resistant assessment and is also a risk assessment. Then we will have just a fraction of what is considered food production in the world. So, what are we going to compete for? Of course we will compete with them in quality, just as we can do with our lamb. We're going to compete for good and because we're environmentally friendly. Let's make more stringent demands than other countries for organic production, protection and environmental protection. That's where we're in attendance. In this way, we can get even more for each kilogram of salmon in fish farming here than in any other place. It can be done. We must also keep in mind the need to increase our production in this country. We need to increase our resources. It is our responsibility, too, for all of us. Stronger welfare systems, educational systems, etc. We need to create something of value to live up to what we all want and to take pride in Iceland. If so, we need to be more valuable. She'll even come. through the fish fire. A total of 100,000 tons of salmon are donated in value, similar to 2 60,000,200,000 tons of cod, as we do today. It is more valuable than wild cod, as strange as it is. That is how the markets are, and so the demand is. We see this market just rising. In Germany salmon has become the third most popular fish on the market, i.e. Seelachs, which is ushes, and herrings. This is part of what we're supposed to be involved in, but let's be careful and give ourselves some time, and don't let anyone, not the fish farms, run the road. We're the ones running the patrol. We're supposed to provide the sample in how we're going to build a fish farm, and we're going to do it in a sustainable way. We have to do it in a sustainable way. I think we all agree on that. What does self-sustaining mean? It means that we will take into account our environmental protection, our nature. We have a set of standards, and that is part of what we especially need to examine here. We're supposed to listen to Hallo. I think that's the key to reconciliation. I immediately sense that there is a bubbiism that has begun, and some doubt that this power is to be possessed. Let's just listen to the scientists who are there, they're getting better knowledge, more experience, and we'll trust them in cooperation with the government. I'm not talking about the politicians letting go. We're giving direction. But to establish a strong course, which, in turn, becomes the foundation of valuable products, we need powerful scientists. Selfishness is an environmental protection. It is also social and economic. We want economic sustainability, and it's not a question that this is something we can sell. It's not like the whale we're not getting anything for and it's just hurting us, it's also economic. Here we have a product that can strengthen the foundations. Then let's not forget the social thing. These are three aspects, environmental, social, and economic, and the social is important. We cannot ignore it, such as the many people that have come up here, how this has affected opportunities and structure, including in the southern part of the West. Then it is also our responsibility to remove the foundations that have been building in the past ten years. How do we do this? The mission is reversed. All of us have the ambition to do this well. That is why I stress that we run slowly, recognize that there are special opportunities for all of us in this, big and many, but we must also look at our community here, how we will strengthen it. I believe we want our country to be inhabited. We have come up with tools for doing so, a profession that has once strengthened the weak and fragile. The resulting social sustainability cannot be overlooked. I have many questions and I would have wanted a chance to ask the highest. Minister. I'll have my chance tomorrow at the Committee meeting. I would have, for example. He wanted to hear him describe how he sees in the peaceful descriptions of certain areas. I think the Far East has presented a very important policy regarding fish farming, which included them. that his vision should keep the face of the storm and the glory of Hellisfjordur, that I might be remembered, be at peace. I wondered, " Should the Jackers not be at peace despite being part of the West? ' I think there's something we should think about. I would've liked to hear that perspective. Ministers, as well as the way he envisions construction in the Eyjafjörður. Is he picturing a building in Eyjafjörður, or is he going to at least declare Eyjafjord? We've got a condition of our energy supply. How does he see things develop in that area? My experience, as a minister, was that there were very different opinions in the area for the development of fish farming in the Eyjafjörður. I'm stressing that a lot of things are fine in this bill, but I would've liked to see it more completely. I would have liked to see some of the more ambitious environmental requirements for fish farming. I would have liked to hear it from more than fish farms, e.g. Closed heifers are not far enough, and there is no point in taking them seriously. I think they're beyond what many think they are. Can we further encourage the motivation to be in charge of a nation that may even be a nation? Building on Fishing? That's an interesting work ahead of a professional committee. Let's face it full of ambition and strength to face this task that can be of great importance to our country's settlements as well as to our Iceland community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying what's at the top. A seafaring and agricultural minister spoke in his history with the bill as he followed it through at the beginning of the discussion. He said that the discussion was too often and too much isolated from the fact that humans are against salmon farming or that they are divided into two groups. I think it may be inevitable when we discuss as much interest as we do here, because they are enormously large, that there is something to be discussed by a group of people and subjects. I think it's the hard thing that the council is up to, getting out of that hole. A respectable president. As members of the northwestern district, we have seen the grand change in the development of fish farming has brought about in the settlements of our district. It has certainly been a rocky and challenging way for the companies in it to create the valuables that have already begun to flow from that region for the national and local region and the people and the people living there. It's a wonderful plan for building up. I think we are also supposed to be people to admit that the environment of those who have seen such things has not been particularly good or especially promising. Not only do they have to deal with difficult transport to the national part of the country but also other factors that have been involved in the construction process, including Because the law is imperfect. That is exactly what this bill is supposed to make up, so it is of utmost importance that we finish a discussion about it at this spring meeting and set that frame on a certain course. I have no doubt that fish farms, salmon farms, can be one of the foundations of our country's economy for long periods of time and that the food production there will benefit us greatly. Just like the highest. There are other factors that we must never forget. We carried a blessing early in the last century to put specific laws on the use and management of huntingists, that is likely one of the first environmental legislation given by the General Assembly. In fact, the foundation that was created in that area led to man's trading with farms and preparing for fishing and bringing in the profits from the provinces. I'm not going deeply into that story, but we can say that the setting for the use of a hunter that was created there and has been developed ever since has proved extremely valuable to many of the land's settlements. You can remember, Mr. Honorable President, because I named our fine ideals that we're both sitting in as senators, that they're also rich in the northwesternHR, using the hunting barn. This is the dance the council must take, and this is the task the Congress must take to resolve, to harmonize with the viewpoints that meet there. I'd like to review that, according to a fine report as a hunting owner or a hunting society and Iceland's Economic Institutes, there were about 69% of the income in rural areas in the Westland as a result of the use of fishing grounds. There's some lower percentage in e.g. ... SheikhingEnglish. We cannot or can work in such a way that there is one threat to another. We will never be able to do so, nor will we. We cannot build a weakness based on threatening the survival of others, for it does not exist. I think it's because of the process or the way it's being followed with the bill, i.e. with the risk assessment, they must be handled by the Committee - which I direct them to do more and more fully than they can. A minister has made it in the preparation of the bill - that it will be a risk assessment device as both sides, as well as all of us who have the interests of the environment and the industry, fish farms, for which they can trust and use for a longer time. The risk assessment is that mine knows the base or cornerstone of the bill. There's been a lot of debate about the risk, and people naturally disagree with it. But as far as I know, it's the method that has been developed nowhere else in the way we've done it. I'd like to remind you on the discussion, because there's been a great deal of the power and role of the Marine Research Agency, that not long ago we were combined in the Marine Research Institute, which was solely the role of research and counseling agencies on the use of hunting doors. That is why we present the great and powerful role of the Acalyptic Institute in the bill. It is important to keep in mind that this is based on the work used to be used by the Institute of Fishing. The fishing industry and its research, counseling on the use and growth of hunting grounds and fishing animals, whether they have grown up years or have sustained others and have made them better fishing rivers and valuables, are the cornerstones of the values mentioned earlier, in the budgets of the former settlements. I have no doubt about it, and I can again think of legislation on the use of hunting doors and the activity done over the years as a basis for much of the value that has slipped there and to strengthen the communities there. That's what I wanted to draw attention to. Here, in many ways, fine talks on this bill and many very learned talks on the individual aspects of the risk assessment and aspects that we would need to consider in fish farming legislation, but to me it is primarily the risk assessment that we can develop and build on the longer term. Therefore, it was a turning point when representatives of fish farms and hunting owners signed an agreement that concluded committee work over a year ago to use the risk assessment system. As a result, I became very aware that they wanted to take the risk assessment off the table. That made sense to certain viewpoints. I still think it's the key to the solution we can work on. That is why the minister's work and what he was referring to in a discussion of history is focused on trying to create a channel and extravasation of the risk assessment so that neither one feels inclined. This is a big challenge, for as soon as we start to present a stronger argument over the risk assessment, someone who wants to protect the interests of the fire seems to be insensitive as soon as we start to lose the value of the risk assessment is inclined toward other stakeholders. So it is a time dance. Third, I want to direct it to what? Work committees discuss the value of research, both the effects of fire and the values of studies in wild salmon stocks, which I think we have a lot to investigate, not only about the effects of fires but also how we can improve the use of the benets and better with the gifts nature has given us, about the use of salmon and other fishing plants such as trout, farms, and other products that create the basis for the benefits we have achieved. I don't want to mix in with fish farming in that product, but I think that while we're building fish fires, we're going to promote research on wild salmon and further research and more of the use of fishing grounds. We still have great opportunities for rural strength, for greater wealth development, to be more effective in the use of various lakes and lakes. A respectable president. The risk assessment is in the light of the path we are following, and it would be a source of strength if we could call more people at that table and better structure, whether we are talking about domestic experts or foreign sources. Therefore, I have no reason to worry that a Habitat Institute is given as much work as is done on the bill with the evidence that it is based on the good and reliable work of an old fishing agency that has yielded the results of a witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for a brilliant speech and an important input into this matter, an experienced experience in this field, and a well - knowledge of things. I'd especially like to agree with what. Senator on the risk assessment. I believe it is the key, as I have understood it, that we achieve understanding and am content with where we go with fish farms and also how we can take care of our wild, important salmon stock. I'd like to ask you what. Senator three questions: First of all, look what. On the one hand, is there any change in the risk assessment to further strengthen or further contribute to the role of the Cape and secure scientific approach? Second, how do you know? A senator realizes that we can better keep our arms around the Oceanographic Institute in this area? Third, I'd like to be curious about whether there are differences in viewpoint within the Independence Party on the risk assessment and whether it should be presented as in the bill, i.e. Whether to be binding, or not for Ministers, to follow up on counseling Crucus. These are three questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u25	A respectable president. I point out that the risk assessment is the key to our success in this discussion and treatment, both in the management of this important sector and in other resource resources. Do better? I'm not going to have professional opinions about the risk assessment at this stage and how the committee should be able to make changes. But I called attention to it, and it came out in a fine speech each. paritaprevir Halla Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, that factors such as counterarguments would need to be more important to risk assessment. I agree that counter-improvement measures that are possible to attack could be more balanced in risk assessment. For other questions the risk-benefit assessment and the partnership of the Independence Party are about to be said only: The Independence Party continues to be completed by more advanced fish farming legislation. The Independence Party has strong support for the use of this sector to the development of the national economy. And so we will work on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I understand the approach to answering this in general. But I especially want to thank you. Senator on the risk assessment. I think that these factors are important as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir came in, that we should examine counter measures. We should consider other factors that can support the risk assessment. The discovery of a foreign research agency has also been made that there is an observation of evolution here. We'll probably hit some walls, i.e. Merrit - and we'll be sure, too, but I think it's important, and we have to be very focused on it, to follow the guidance we receive there. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Congress has another question about the price of fish farming's environmental fund. Did he assume that the committee specifically examined that funds would be extended and that they would also be involved in researching the wild salmon? I agree with what. Senator, we need to do more research on wild salmon. It's part - and it's always been a percentage. But I do know from the past that there have also been tensions when candidates have been too many, and applications have been linked to too much of our wild salmon. I'm asking why. A senator sees certain changes in the role of the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u27	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions, I forgot earlier, and I apologize. But, hey. A senator asks for a different role. This is not the subject of the ransom, but the subject is specifically discussed. On the other hand, I can answer the question, " Why? ' A senator for a study of wild salmon. I could picture it. I'd also like to see, without going to a high level of talk about a planned bill on currency, that economic incentives would have to be introduced there to reduce the pressure on the environment and build it into the reimbursement in such a way that we are accepting the increased cost of fire companies, which would once again mean less risk to the environment. I think it's a key when we discuss reimbursement from this sector, that we build in the right motivation to do good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u28	V.E.G. President. Despite the fact that I have not yet reached 30 years ago, my interest in Icelandic politics was likely seriously sparked by over 15 years ago. At that time, I was a high school student at Landakots School, a little higher than my farm in Grafarvogi, and I would not take a bus home from Saviour Square after school. There are two things that I remember most well from my regular walks from the Catholic Church to the bus stop that made me think about our community. On the one hand, it was those outside who were on the road. I never really understood how it could be that in a country like Iceland, which I was always told was great in every way, there were so many people who didn't live anywhere, not even in the middle of nowhere, and had to ask other people for money for food. In fact, I still don't understand if it's gone. On the other hand, I have memorable posters that hung around and an army but, above all, in a small corner building on South Street that I would later find to be the left - side office of the left movement. They jagged a little man in a suit that kept calling for more facades and who seemed to have no other proposals, no matter how intelligent they might sound. Finally, I went to pick up some sort of slang into this little house and began to study the great and complex words of ◯Key's Relecting. Soon afterward I received a fine book from Ómar Ragnarsson about the same subject that became more and more thoughtful to me. No doubt, it could be said that these posters of the Young Left Green sparked the events that eventually led me to this speaker's nap. Because it is rather appropriate that I make their material mine, now that it is here. But why am I trying to recall Kaleganization before the Senate? It is true that this council consists of more than one o'clock. A senator who also sat here while I was a bar mitzvah, even more than two and even more than three. But the reason why I review Kalegan's surgery is quite simple, for despite how much has been discussed, the bill and its work should be based on scientific foundations, it appears sometimes that the ancient requirement for the minds of the minds is the one who cannot learn from history is condemned to repeat it. Blundering is a textbook on what happens when natural protection plans are put aside when a major job structure is under attack. More than 15 years ago, however, the titres of Austjörður were set in motion unless Kálán's activation occurred. However, concern over the CDC was ignored, except for its ridicule and ridicule. As a result, today the Laguer River is dead, and my dreams of meeting with the Laguer River worm are long gone. Despite huge fluctuations in global prices since the plant of the disaster, society there has always survived. However, I allow myself to assert, without denying the economic effects of the plant, that the movement outside that East today is not the work in the studio but the tourism and cultural activities such as Essanna and LugA. Both are functions, this is something else that opposers of Kárian's operations asked for over a half of a decade ago, which thrives and benefits from uncontaminated nature, wherever it can be found. Of course, the fish breeding bill is not perfectly comparable to the Kaldrum's inactivation, but the parallels are there. Another example of the import of foreign species may be available for the use of neighboring countries. Nobody planned that imported minks would escape the fur populations of Icelandic nature. Nevertheless, it is a fact that smaller numbers of farms escaped with known consequences for Icelandic nature, reductions in species size and change in spread of species. It's also a fact - and I think it's a complete dissatisfaction, as it is, in fact, presented in the opinion of the Environment and Resource Commission, No. 20/2018,--that it will not be able to stop farming salmon from escaping from the sealands. This can be seen not only that accidents have already occurred in the country but also on the bill itself. In the 17th. the current bill is assumed to publish information on accidental releases by the Food Institute of Diet, but not by Α. A path to the contrary using the terms specified in Article 1. available bill for the genetic risk assessment. I think it's worth a lot of money to me. As such a result of a risk assessment, it is planned to assess the amount of salmon that can be fed in each area so that wild salmon stocks of accidental gaps are not damaged. This assessment should be followed by a basic permission unit. However, the risk assessment needs to be reviewed regularly and not less often than once every three years, which is not a long time in scientific terms, although we politicians may view the terms of the ideal time. In turn, a change in risk assessment should be taken into account by the legislators, as would normally be. But the question that faces me is, What if things have changed in real life so that they would have to reduce their marine mass before the risk assessment is reviewed and the amount of production has decreased accordingly? Then there must be counter measures and maybe even some. It's already too late, if you want to make a year apart. Similarly, in the country of hunting partners and others, it has been pointed out that in accordance with the bill, the decision-making process is to be followed by persons with enormous financial interests. I do not intend to spend too much time in that discussion, as she has received a well - arranged organization in both the media and the government consultations. However, it must seem that such a decision may undermine confidence in the objective basis of the risk assessment. Councilmen feel justified, or not. The person mentioned here does not automatically suggest a better way to make a risk assessment or a better safety profile. On the other hand, I want it out of the question for a reason. Council members that the precautions provided as far as they can be are not fully prevented from irreparable damage. Yet, as a player, if the bill comes forward, I would appreciate it to have limitations that would only be used in a rabbit fish where there was a risk of genetic preparation. This would prevent any damage to natural life. But there are other things that I don't have a clear understanding of. I understand, for example. not every bill said to be built first and last on scientific grounds sets so narrow time and safety conditions for research as described in 17 paragraph. the available bill, to protect it, by permission of the President, did not strategize or, in particular, increase the concern of this operation to the level. With such limitations, the survival of private companies is setting priorities ahead of a better scientific understanding, by permission of the president of legislatures, farming methods, the behavior of farm fish, manpower, equipment, and the health of legislatures. Also available is the assessment of the Earth's Snowlands and the Eyjafjörður. I simply ask myself, " Can I really, and with a good conscience, be able to talk about some careful structure in the process of pushing ahead of time ever more and more fish farming before there are countless and significant experience in the arrangement where it exists? ' Or are we going to have our fish farms planted in any other part of the country if later we come up with a run? I'll say it at the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers and what. I am pleased with the results of working together on environmental considerations to legalize the work structure. That's a great improvement. What bothers me, however, with the bill presented here, is that the prime agent in it seems to, above all, that there is a work here that is designed to cause damage to nature. In other cases, the excellent nature protection issues are then turned behind these structures in order to soften and offset the irreversible consequences of success. Sadly, that is how nature is, not left to the doubt, but to an economic outlook. I thought it'd be nice to hear a statement from a local employment committee that they'd met both people from the scientific community and from nature protection organizations, as well as the study of the fish fire itself. Norwegians are still learning to fish themselves as a industry, and they constantly need to reevaluate the rules around them. To the senator here, nature is always enjoying the doubt. I sincerely hope that they will be given consideration to further discussions and work on this bill on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u29	A respectable president. As we have discussed, we're going to discuss an important matter that concerns much the community's interests, the host's interests, and most important of all the environment. Fish farms, salmon farms, pink fires, rainbows, and other species are not professional, some of which are thinking and preparing. These articles are on the move, and workers are on the move. This is to occur in spite of the absolute limitation of legislation and the full design of the image species in both the licence and the use of marine farms. This year, e.g. estimated that the production of salmon alone in this country can be studied by some 121⁄215 billion, and the next year, about 23 billion. This is of national importance. The limited areas in which fish farming is agreed and where there is room for room in the box have been distributed. This is the ideal position of the bulldozers, who are bent forward. Sad to say, there is still a cutting of unsolvable laws, and hopefully it will be improved. This activity is linked to important environmental factors, such as previously killed, and to ensure that our intervention does not have permanent and irreversible consequences. Sadly, when it comes to employment, we have experience of this all around us. Not only old examples, but new ones as well. In our group, the United States, we want this attitude to be given at the same time and to exercise caution in each step, through careful and established research, and, above all, with financial and professional ability to follow the rules of play. There's a pot broken in many areas of commercial life in Iceland, like the examples prove. In the salmon industry, the operators themselves call for clear rules and guidance, and they want strength in the setting. Monitoring should be strong, and the article has the opportunity to pay for it itself on the terms or conditions we call them, the disposal fees. Why don't we mention those resources? Of course, the bill for remuneration should be in the discussion together with this bill or even be a part of it. I don't have a good feeling that they don't do that while they're giving a donation on the bill. The first and the most urgent must be taken into account, and there is nothing to be delayed. Such a bill can be dealt with in a number of ways. Around the world, Mr. President, there is a trend toward increasing fish farms. It is not by chance that all the countries that can produce fish are heading for an increase. That is Norway, Ireland, Scotland, Faeroe Islands, the United States, and Canada. The great European Union is going to use it in a direct way to increase the number of fish fires. These countries and governments realize that the only way to achieve economic success is through increased exports, and this may be of major importance to the fishing industry. Ban Ki-moon, former U.S. secretary - general of the United Nations, says that there is a great advantage in fish farming for the whole world. It works against climate change, contributes to sustainable development, is motivated by feelings of social responsibility, and contributes to the security of the world's inhabitants. These words gave Ban Ki-moon a talk at a conference recently held in Stavger on food production in the ocean. His case included. so that fish farming is the fast - growing food product in the world at present. Today, nearly half of all the fish in the world stand on fish farms. Fish farming has contributed to increased food security, reduced poverty, increased trade, and developed commercial opportunities around the world. A respectable president. I allow myself to make the last words of Ban Ki-moon, by permission of the President: ▪ A healthy ocean is needed to maintain a healthy earth and a healthy life. To protect and control international efforts to protect and control the safe areas of our oceans, the performance is of enormous importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u30	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in various laws related to fish farms, i.e. Risk assessment of genetic mixtures, distribution of fire areas, administrative fines, etc. What I want to do with this 1st. The point is that it is a professional conversation. The discussion has been a big deal about either being a fish or not a fish farm, fishing, or getting everything in the army, etc. It is important that different occupations, variety of jobs, find ways to work together so that all can enjoy themselves. Of course, it would not be acceptable if, for example, the cod population stopped catching shrimp. Similarly, there will be no reconciliation to stop the structure of this powerful industry, which, hopefully, is about to develop and break children's robes, which are salmon fueled. I think that this is the kind of approach that must be made both for those with interest in the environment as well as for those in the faraway areas, for example. Instead of approaching matters either for or for the sake of a matter, fishermen look for the most secure means to protect their existing interests. A wide variety of counter-important measures can be taken that I think would be wise to be included in the overall assessment that should be considered. I'd like to mention that the risk assessment has to develop over the next few years as the experience progresses. But at the same time, I'd like to say that people have to be careful in these matters, since, of course, this has to work in both directions, the approach that employment can live in a more consistent and consistent way. These currently built-up roads are on the south side of the West, and they have produced absolutely extraordinary changes in the protected areas, some of which have been defined for years. But now everything blooms. Suddenly people are feeling lack of housing. Drivet's in the local community. New enterprises exist as a service to this industry and so forth. We here at Parliament must find a way to implement the rules in a way that would be acceptable between these stakeholders, which are in place on which those who want to support and strengthen this fire industry and, on the other hand, have the rights to ensure that their resources will be used in ways that will not be sacrificed to future interests. As far as this is concerned, I think that the workplace needs to find a way to live with one another in a more reasonable way. It does not matter whether it is fish farming, fishing rights, farmers, industry, a large industry, whatever, a tourist. We all need to share this country. There are two more things I would like to mention, specific things. There is a factor involved in the binding of the opinion of the Marine Research Agency, i.e. that the Merological Institute has a final comment on the quantity of fuel in each area rather than on the minister. I think that's a point the committee must consider. There may be a similar example, but I don't know them, so I would be happy if someone pointed out such a thing to me. But I think there's a wrong man out there, that a final decision must always rest with a minister, whoever he is every time. There may vary in the way the interests are measured individually. Then there is one technical point that I would like to mention. It turns to a period of rest on farms. It is framed with a specific deadline now. I would like to direct it to the Committee whether it is wise to look at the real status of the local community at a time. There are very different conditions in the environment in these fire areas and areas are rapidly clearing the bottom. I think it must be wise, for many reasons, that people measure this from real status and not from some preconceived time point of view, one being over the course, as varied as the farms are. Other than that, I'm not going to come on any more things right now. There will likely be a more meaningful discussion of the second issue. after the rest of the day. The job committee has done some serious research. It seems to me that most of the viewpoints there is a reason to introduce themselves during the discussion earlier today. The committee is well presented at the bottom of their trip to Norway, and I hope that we will be able to handle the situation in a way that our professional roads can live in a more reasonable way together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u31	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss fish farms here, the bill to correct the change in various fiscal laws, the risk assessment of genetic products, the distribution of farms, government tickets, etc. In view of the importance of fish farming for the communities and businesses that truly depend, and have been presented here in the discussion, and at peace with the sector, and with the environment and nature, I welcome this bill to the highest degree. Seafood and agricultural ministers. There are truly great interests at heart, as you would like to be. Of course, this is economic issues for the territory in question. It's a business, a community in all its meaning, environmental and natural issues, and a lot up to the future. That's why it's the highest. The government will take this matter in particular in a government contract as part of a fishing industry and structure, which, of course, works well if we consider the way in which the sea is on a international scale. Here, we have the most abundant emphasis on science, research and development to ensure sustainable resource efficiency and it is important that this emphasis also be found in the fish fire. We must not continue without ensuring that this work will be done in the future. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir The Guðjón who created the Brjánsson Brunnson who said that the environment and counterweals were very important here. Similarly, there was trouble. paritaprevir Halling Signý Kristjánsdóttir into the environmental factor, every step should be used with caution. I'll join you with this what's-her-name. Councilmen. And that's right. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came on, the cornerstone of this bill is, of course, considering the risk assessment. I'm just going to review what it says in a government contract. By permission of the president, it says: To ensure its survival, it is important to promote the scattered sea settlements and maintain diversity in the growth potential. Of course, the share of coastal fishing and the distribution of resources is a key factor in terms of, as well as structure, but the structure of the sector such as the fish fire is also the case. Furthermore, by permission of the president, it says: A growing industry, which includes opportunities for work development, has to be developed with extreme caution in line with the advice of scientists so that biodiversity will not be threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the need for the research and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. This is exactly the point of the bill we're discussing here, exactly this. It's shown in a paper, a respectable president: ▪ When preparing this bill, a large part of the report of a fishing policy group was made on November 30, 2016. In his letter of command, it was referred to the importance of the choice of conditions and setting of fish farming to the best, and in the greatest agreement with the environment. The staff returned their proposal by reporting on fish farming policies in August 2017. That's really what we see in this bill. It includes all the factors and challenges faced by the fish - fire, perhaps primarily three factors that face, organic stress, parasites, and salmon, and then genetic mixtures with wild salmon. These factors are addressed to all in the bill, a respectable president. I was just about to get these factors to, the focus on the environment and nature protection, and leave them to the end, that's what it's all about. Minister, and became very clear in his review speech, and the demand of all of us, and may well be marked by the discussion here that the structure of fish farming will be responsible and that evolution will become sustainable with emphasis on the protection of the environment, nature, environment, and protection of wild salmon strains. The bill includes most of the factors that matter to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech here. There must be some factors involved in this bill. One of them is expected to be part of the monitoring of the enterprises themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u33	If they meet demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u34	- If they meet demands, I heard the highest. Minister say. We have only a limited experience in Iceland of some of the company's surveillance. So we came to know something in the discussion that took place around the peculiar times that ended in a very autumn of 2008, as people know. Mr. President. I'm not comparing it, I'll just mention it to keep the context in the discussion. But I want to go inside. A senator, depending on how he feels about this way in the hands of the companies himself, gave the conditions that the minister pointed to in his own way. I allow you to mention in my speech that there are various locations in which you might form a discussion of government fines in a surveillance context. Let me mention that a Fishing Room might be more alert as a potential party to monitor this trade. I'd like to go in, too. A senator according to his view of that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u35	V.E.G. President. This is a significant change in the development of administrative and monitoring factors, including for the rest of your days. A senator here mentioned, on internal Affairs, perhaps preferably there, but also on the surface of an external surveillance programme, if you can call it. There comes a hearing committee appointed by the highest order. A minister who is intended to be a adviser in general, thus strengthening the scientific basis and risk assessment and, I would like to mean, continued decisions on the structure of fish breeds, especially on the underlying environmental issues, such as the treatment of disease genetics, parasites, salmon lice, and other environmental impacts, to form in the beaches. At the same time, more funding is being offered directly to support the administration and the monitoring program. What I'm positive about internal Affairs, that the company itself is a source of information and that it will provide the necessary information, is that it will increase the transparency and the possibility of being closer in time to update the risk assessment as presented in the bill. This is what comes first to my mind as the answer to this question, why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. A senator mentioned that there is an increase in money to this organisation. This raises the question when we talk about a number of types of administrative fines and right/left monitoring, if not necessary, including In view of recent experiences, to make sure that the requested institutions have the inner strength needed to carry out the normal administrative arrangements. The experience, Mr. President, is that not always true. As I mentioned right in this case, there are almost heartrending examples here, including... to non-employable funds. However, the main issue is to hide the surveillance of various sources in order to take burdensome measures against enterprises, which, of course, are necessary, but to ensure that those who have received such projects have authority to carry them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A very good question for the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. This is something that we should always wonder about when we are demanding, as the discussion clearly shows. We want to make demands. We would like to meet the requirements for building on this industry and demand that the environment and nature be not threatened. As I said in my speech, the risk assessment is the one on this. We're making a lot of corporate information requirements. The reason for this increased need for information is that we want to closely monitor the production volumes and development of the permits production in certain areas where we work. To accomplish this, we must meet these requirements. But I agree with that with what. Senator that we must at the same time make sure that the companies are in place for this information. In the main context, it may be said that it will be the role of the committee to consider this aspect well. I think that's a really need and a good tip. I don't have the bill in front of me, I need to look it up, but here we are, for example. talking about the environment fund. It may be such a way to strengthen the companies in this management business for a while because these requirements cannot be avoided. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u38	Mr. President. We're discussing fish farms here today. To find out, I sit on a professional committee that went to Norway last week. I think it was a great example, and we gained a tremendous amount of information on the trip that will be useful over the next few weeks at the employment committee. I think we're pretty much at the bottom of the discussion, considering the good information we were given. Laxeldi has been in Norway for some 50 years, but it was the first time that it really started. The Norwegians produced more than 30,000 tons in 1986, but last year they produced 1,100,000 tons, and the rainbow is about 100,000 tons, making a total of some 1.2 million tons of waste in a sea farm today, on Norway's shores. First of all, I'm going to go through a few points and how things are going. In Norway, where we look, we are talking about a marine farm or about future fish farming. It consists mainly of four factors, the traditional marine farm that is practiced today, and it has been practiced for the last 50 years. Then there are the ideas of a closed sea equacao that are being developed in so - called sealed heifers. In Norway, there are differing opinions about what a closed sea trough means exactly. It's also talking about fire, by permission of President, '-' shor', off the coast. It is even large white - collar structures, which may have produce up to 25,000 tons per year, each of which is a source. Men have come into such ideas, and I suspect they came from the oil industry. A vast number of engineers in Norway were working on the oil a few years ago but went to fish farms. So there is a lot going on. The fourth advantage, then, is land farming, which has also been a significant subject for discussion. It is very interesting to get this out, to discuss with Norway's leading scientists in this field about different fires, and how to see the future in this, what can be done. It is beginning to look up to 2050, to the next 30 years, and in all of this, there are many variables, how you look most closely toward these factors. Hence, it is interesting to think about things based on competitiveness over a longer period of time and to think about them in the big movie. In Norway they split the areas into 13 parts, and the trend seems to have been low in recent years and decades. The best areas are always north and north in Norway, where sea temperatures have grown very low and the sea is warming as the north has drawn and the areas have improved. It's a little perfunctory if you think over the length of time by sea heat in Iceland and the conditions. A significant debate was in our meetings outside, e.g. about Finnmarka, what it would be like for natural conditions. Finnmarks appear to be getting better in, i.e. North Norge, in this respect. If we return home, I find it extremely important that we do not give a discount on the environmental factors that are involved in the fishery and the self-sustaining that we are always looking for, which are involved in the environmental, social, and economic aspects of this work. It is also evident that when we look at these big production countries, such as Norway and Chile, we never compete with them in abundance, but our foundation must always be good. It seems to be a success, considering the information we have received. The Icelandic salmon produced in aquarium has been sold well. He's been well - trained, and he's made a good sale. In Norway it may have been more about the large - scale salmon lice and then the diseases. Norwegians spend a lot of work studying to prevent these things, but just as I came in, the temperature in the ocean has been changing and the number of salmon lice is increasing. Iceland, if we talk about competitiveness, seems to be moving only toward being more competitive with regard to these factors. Here, for example. little salmon lice, but in Norway. Then there are factors that can be falsified as the size of a bill. They've grown and grown. In Norway, they began with a sum of 25 to 40 pounds [30 to 40 kg]. Then there are about 100 grams [100 g] in Iceland, and in Iceland we have a sum of 100 to 150 pounds. Then there's a lot of ideas, and when I talk about competitiveness, you think about making a big mess. During the Norway tour, there were many talk of SuperSmolt. Norwegians believe that it may be environmentally good for the growth of the time in the ocean and to look very hard at it and also because of the fish's vitality if he escapes from the water. Perhaps it would be very interesting to get more thinking in Iceland that turns to our sources of hot and good, fresh and cold water in this saying, whether it could be more competitive in this industry, in the fish fire, the big bill we would be then. accessing the earth's heat. In Norway, for example, the cost of operating and investment in traditional marine farming is much lower today than the other factors, especially land farming and closed heifers. This is what we received information about, and hopefully we'll have even more information about this over the next few weeks on the Committee to evaluate the quality of the different factors. What's special about the discussion on a professional committee is that there is a long-term shape of laws and policies for the new industry in Iceland. That is why it is extremely important that the committee work zealously and obtain the most skilled scientists. I would also have wanted to see that in Iceland we would get even foreign scientists for the committee. The point is that we could well have the need for foreign experts. To be honest, I was surprised by the NORS, the National Research Centre in Norway, that there are 100 scientists who are primarily involved in the study of fish farms, the rivers, and the effects on them. In the Norwegian Oceanographic Institute, there is also tremendous experience. These are two institutions that have over 1,000 employees each and an enormous knowledge of the issues associated with fish farming in the North seas, Norway, and other countries. Norwegians had a serious problem with their fish farming. So did Chileans. The third nation, however, was in trouble at the time with its fish farm. Following these difficulties, powerful laws and changes in their affairs were established. We can then build up our own structure by looking closely at these features, where the learning process in these nations covers a long period of time and has had to deal with extreme difficulties. How important it is that we do not lose this discussion in the trenches but that there will be general and good discussions, so we try at least to get to a careful discussion and approach it with some kind of reconciliation over the whole matter. Today, the debate is in holes, must be acknowledged. It is of utmost importance to achieve as wide and as well as satisfying peace in this large matter as possible and to guide the counseling of scientists on the subject. As I said earlier in my talk, it is important to improve the work of a business committee that we can call foreign experts in this field, perhaps on individual factors. This will be illustrated in the work of the Committee how they want to approach it. Tremendous technological changes have been made, and technological innovations have been observed during these 50 years in Norway. My suspicion is that the fourth industrial revolution will also enter this fire quite a bit. Then, too, people need to realize how it will come about and how it can be used. I believe that in the coming years and decades, there will be a major impact from the fourth industrial revolution into fish fire. It's right to add something to the hunting rights. In a matter of what. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson earlier reported that 69% of the city's farmers'farmers'income comes from fishing rights in the river. There are areas around the globe, and this is the most populated area in the countryside. Then I want to reiterate the importance of the reconciliation. We have also seen how powerfully the investment in Western Europe and Eastern Europe has affected the West, especially on the West. They left three or four years earlier. There we have seen vast changes in our employment and employment practices in the areas around us. In the United States, a standard of living is constantly spoken of and it is important to develop new employment on a sustainable basis. In 2017, the world's fishing industry was producing more than we do in the world's seas. It is calculated that during the coming decades, the number of fish from the fire is mainly rising, possibly at a maximum level in the oceans. It was also found with respect to fire that half of them are food costs and that in Norway people are concerned about feeding. In feeding, certain raw materials need to be developed, and scientists were concerned about how to reach the target of a five - fold fire between 2050 and 2050, but they have the ability to take it up to 5 million tons. There are so many things in this big movie that you have to look at. I must say that our trip to Norway was exemplary for the Senate and the council. This is one of the best things I've seen in the council, to set off in committee work on such a major subject, a fundamental subject, and to get the best presentations of scientists in Norway and all the knowledge they've developed for 50 years around this industry. I am truly looking forward to the material discussion in 2 Corinthians. ... aboutthiscase. [[The president calls.]] I hope we get along well with the situation because the reconciliation is what this case is, to a considerable extent, and reaching it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u39	Mr. President. This case has many aspects. I'm just going to mention one point, even though it's a little late, and that's the publication of the information. Where it is. A senator, and I thank you for his excellent speech, knows a lot about the flight and appreciates how important it is to be able to clarify information about the operation in that field I'd like to draw attention to a new article, C- team 19. Gr., for the release of information. It obliges a food management agency to make an official report on the results of surveillance and decisions that include important factors or important burdensome decisions for companies. That's very good. But in the 19th row. it is authorised to publish publicly data from the surveillance of the Food Agency and information from the management centre and the production reports of the individual Marketing Authorisation Holder. Since it's said there that it's allowed, why isn't it related? I'd love to go inside. The senator's attitude on this point is indicated by the subsequent statement that a minister has regulations in the Regulation on the format and content of this publication. I understand that the presentation is explained there, to form an electronic form, and the timelines for this information to be published. But I do not understand what is meant by the fact that a minister should have the authority to state in Regulation what is the nature of these manifestations. I want to let myself in. A senator according to his general view of information and of this article, which I consider very important. In fact, I think it's handsomely addressed to one of the factors in the above C- team 19.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It was a very technical inquiry. In general, my opinion of information is in the process of making food, and in food production and such factors is that there should be as much transparency as possible. The lesson I learned on the good way to Norway, which we could learn. The senators were both in, in the country of Norway, you can access information about every country on the Internet, e.g. about the density of the heifer, salmon lice, and waste from the heifer. That was very interesting to me. It is exemplary, and I have faith that the committees look at this aspect of their work and go through these factors. There are countless things in this creature that we learned in the Norway tour of fish farming with the Norwegians. It may be difficult in a material way to discuss this 19. g., a, b and c, and the technical conditions that are behind that. But I can say in general that food production is extremely important. I thought the Norwegians did well, how they had this open with their heifers. It has to do with things, such as shaving before, disease, salmon lice, and anything that has to do with the cows and their biomass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and would like to agree with his general view of the importance of food producing transparency and information. Hv. A senator mentioned that we had been on a trip together in Norway. It was not only beneficial but also enjoyable. We learned a lot. One of the things we learned was that the Norwegians use a variety of technology that has developed and developed in the oil industry, including the oil industry. Such as a dog. A senator could handle, a variety of monitors, cameras, and other activities, which, of course, are very useful and important, even when it comes to accidents such as when salmon escapes for some reason. It is also true that we watch rivers in the vicinity of the fire. There's something else that we learned there, and maybe we got into a lot of blood, if I may allow myself to put it that way, and that Northmen don't save themselves when it comes to research in this article and focus on the importance of research as the foundation of the industry. This is very important. This is not just the case with fish farming. We are sometimes talking about the importance of the development of tourism in order to support it in reliable information and research at any given time. This, of course, is the way to advance professional activities such as these important sectors. I'm just going to finish my story by saying that I'm looking forward to my cooperation with what. A senator and another man. People on the pro board on this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-11-78.u42	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. I look forward to the work of the Committee over the next few weeks and even months that are related to this important matter. You're absolutely right, and I'll say the word. A senator for research on salmon stocks is clearly important. I suspect there will be a high priority for research in the coming years related to fish farming in Iceland and its development, for man to have extensive and extensive research on the fish fire and then for the natural species, both in the rivers and in the sea. It turns out that scientific knowledge of the sea in particular appears to be very limited. It is one of the projects, trying to gain more accurate and better knowledge of salmon strains, so that we can learn even more about them. It is true that especially in recent years, an enormous amount of knowledge has been transferred from the oil industry, after oil prices began to decline. The field of technology moved from the oil industry to a considerable extent. According to a news report, 30,000 engineers and engineers lost their jobs on Norway's west coast, linked to a reduction in oil prices, and they include the work on the west coast. Their knowledge of fish farming is being transferred. As I learned from my earlier speech, huge technical innovations have occurred. Before the trip, you had little idea of how much work that was, but you had a reduced number of accidents. It came, for example. magazines in the language of the scientists we discussed outside. I see that time is running out, but we also have a technical firm in this area, which we will naturally turn to in the next few years at this job. [[The president calls.]]
