ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u1	The president wants to state that a new Web site, which has been opened and is available for a page from 1845 through 2009. In effect, this site, along with the World Generals' main web, is now providing nearly complete information on the activities of the Generals and the activities of the General Assembly since its construction of 1845. President thanks to all those who have worked on this for their good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u2	There was a letter from Gull of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson and his Þórunn, Egilsdóttir, that they could not do any re-election next time. Just as was announced on the Generals' Web site yesterday, on Monday, January 28, took place at the General Assembly, which served as an assistant of the 1st Independence Party list in Smoke. n., Albert Guðmundsson, and 1 strategist of the National Front Party list. "The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. They have previously taken their place in the General Assembly, and they are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u4	Mr. President. Today, during the last week, the Federal Protection of the United States sent a message warning against the dangers now facing democratic elections, including those of the United States. Because of community services around the world. The letter follows a meeting of Europe's personal protection with Vera Jourová, the European Minister of Justice, where it strongly warns that elections will never be the same. The message's very clear. There won't be any elections the same from now on. We know the examples: Trump, Bolsonaro, Brexit, has become a reality to a large extent because of a covert of elections, but also because of the simply misinformation involved. That's what we know. In this country, advertising was financed by subsidies in the leading of last elections, whether it was Icelandic voters, political parties, stakeholders, or just foreign states. We don't know. Last week, Kingdom Radio News discussed with Internet security experts. It showed that so - called artificialists watch thousands of Icelanders on the Twitter. They have not yet been activated to do one thing or anything, but they are ready on the sideline and will be able to act. How do we not know, but they will be able to wield themselves. That's what we know. And less than two weeks ago, it was found that Facebook closed in one day 364 pages that had almost 794,000 followers. Simply put, the purpose was to influence certain lands. And it was only in one day. There are now more than two years in total elections, maybe shorter. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What is she going to do to ensure that democracy does not threaten these people, no matter where they are in the world? How can we prevent these hidden ones, whoever they are and wherever they are, from playing with democracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording this important issue. It is important not only for us at the Council but also for the community all of it. I agree with what. A senator of modern technology and social media has already transformed all political discussions, all democratic discussions, and it is very important that we apply them in our discussion. About the business of the Perone Protection, that is, of course. A senator refers to, we in the Presidency Department will have a meeting this week with the Ministry of Justice, carried out by an election. I think it's a good idea that it shows that there needs to be a meeting point for the implementation of an election, as Persian protection suggests. Then the political managers have asked to continue their work. Among the things that have been reported in the news is the taking of counsel on political activities. In this country, we have a legal law on the financial affairs of political parties. Much looks forward to political reforms that increase transparency, making it more likely that political parties cannot be costed without complete clear, transparentness, and the extent to which political parties and individuals can support the activities of political parties. Yet, we still have no total law on political parties, including the U.S. they'd be looking at the protection issues. As we have seen during a European discussion, it is very important that political groups submit to such rules and establish themselves in the new environment of personal protection. Other factors need to be included in total law, so I intend to request to the Commission that they continue their work and complete a new universal law on political activities. That, on its own, is not enough. Governments also need to respond, and such opportunities of consultation, as the Persian Protection puts it, could be an idea. Then it's just, and I may come to that later, very important that we take special note of this matter when it comes to education and education in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u6	Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to know the answer. I agree in many things. Most of all, I'd like to be delighted that this meeting area is being activated. There's more to come. Society companies, police, politicians, technology, university community - but also national security Council. I think it's important too. I'm the highest. The prime minister to set this issue accurately on our program when we meet next that we too need to consider these matters. I believe that the managers of the classes, which we know to be extremely qualified and good people, do not have that means enough to ward off this danger. A political organization? Of course, we need to establish a universal law on political parties. But the danger is that foreign powers will exploit Iceland for some purpose we don't know today. We're gonna see this somewhere else, and this is gonna happen here, too. Although they can certainly be linked to some political organization, the matter is much bigger than the Icelandic political parties, although we should, of course, include them. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. Prime Minister to accept this matter at a meeting of the presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u7	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. It's important to discuss this in many places. So I have set the matter up on the next meeting of the National Security Council, which will be held on February 18th. There they will be especially on the program. I'll take it easy on that suggestion. The senator says we will discuss the matter also at the scene of the prefects. I think it's important that we prepare the discussion carefully and take the matter into consideration, for example. ... inconsistenciesof the Regular Constitutions of the Chairmans. But it is - and this is something that we have to make up for in the field of the Norse Prime Minister - that everywhere we see the denaturization of political discussions. Very extensive, e.g. in the north, there are clear examples of false reports that have been spread, especially regarding immigrants and immigrants'affairs. They are not thought to come from outside but to have a well - watered source in the lands, but they often depend on no facts and are spread at a tremendous rate. The fact is, false news that is often appealing to feelings is also true. [[The president calls.]] They do not necessarily depend on logic or fact. Such reports are spreading much faster than the news we can say is based on fact. [[The president calls.]] But this is a matter that we will discuss in the political arena. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you. A senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u8	A respectable president. It was just before Christmas that the World of Congress approved an additional budget for the operation of the U.S.A. to 150 million. K. As soon as I'm going to kiss the highest. I'm concerned with the health minister's concern that for some reason the head of Iceland's Medical Insurance isn't too well informed that the 150 million were earmarked on the U.S.A., walking departments, etc. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of health is more specific, for it is clear what the Senate approved for Christmas. We were putting our arms around us and trying to meet the big problem at the U.S.A. We were worried about the situation upstairs. I'm worried about the operation if there's no way they could handle the extra earmarks, since at Vogi, there are going to be up to 400 instructions in this year, and it also needs to close the walking department in Akureyri. I'm asking the highest. Whether we can cope with the progress and correct the apparent misunderstanding so that we do not need to reduce the number of admissions to Yog by up to 30 place in each month.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u9	A respectable president. As shown in the matter of what. That was so true of a senator. The budget made a special proposal for additional contributions to the U.S. for the final payment of budgets approved by the greater part of the General Assembly. The text of the legal committee at that amount was specifically suggested that it be a step - by - step contribution, both in Reykjavík and in Akureyri. In most words, this text has likely referred to walking walks in the United States and was based on an assessment of how much it took to run a parade service, both in Reykjavík and in Akureyri. In fact, the budget improved the number of walking services suggested by the United States and added 50 million to its members. It is to say that the only text available is to indicate that the Senate releases and the text of the legal committees say that this is about walking the state of the U.S.A. and other services in accordance with the Ministry's policy. So, according to the procedures and laws we're working on, the next step in Iceland's Medical Insurance is to negotiate with the U.S.A. for this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u10	Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I'm so happy that we're starting to see that this money is paid out and a deal is made with Iceland's Medical Insurance. It's like there's the knife in the cow. You're absolutely right. A health minister says, she reads it almost verbally up as a financial committee agreed for Christmas. I don't think there's anything to doubt about what's enjoyable. The question is, When can we expect it? Do we have to fear the need to take such action? We know how much trouble there is, and we call out loud to get treated. Can we not be a little optimistic and see to it that a deal will be made at the end of the year, especially soon? It's just a question of when.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u11	A respectable president. There's a lot of projects on the Health Insurance Table of Iceland. It's one of them. A financial committee has spoken very clearly, and the General has approved this amount so that it goes nowhere but to what the Parliament has decided. I suppose it's very important that this money gets into the program as soon as possible and I expect Iceland's medical insurance will have the same understanding of its priorities as we do here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u12	Mr. President. The absence of torture and other incontestable or inhuman treatment or punishment is absolute and without exception in all democracies. Similarly, it is the responsibility of all democracies and democracies to do their utmost to avoid violating the principles, which include: is legalized in the European Convention and the Constitution of Iceland. Nowhere is the government's responsibility to create human environment, free of violence, disrespect, or torture, as important as in the living quarters that house the people whose government has taken away their freedoms. To protect their country from this obligation, they have established international surveillance committees, rights and local agents who have the responsibility to guide laws, situations, and services that must be available in order to minimise the potential of offenses. A respectable president. Today, the European Commission's defenses against torture and other disrespectful or inhuman treatment or punishment, often referred to as CPT, have been directed to the Icelandic government for years to correct a serious lack of mental health care for prisoners, last in its 2013 report. Government review pointed to this lack in his 2010 report, and the General Agent has repeatedly encouraged the Ministry. Ministers to improve the quality of health for prisoners without counting response or improvement from the Ministry. The Ministry of Justice has confirmed that the present arrangement does not provide protection from torture and other disrespectful treatments or punishments in the country's prisons. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this to you? Why does the Ministry seem the highest. Minister no matter what the basic human rights of prisoners? When is it possible to make improvements in order to ensure a prisoner's access to appropriate mental - health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u13	A respectable president. I and my Ministry have taken these tips very seriously, and we don't care about the services received by prisoners rather than others. Of course, it is important for all, regardless of whether they are in prison or not, to have health care. It is a pleasure to report that contracts between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Health Care Center in the capital area, Aarhus, are in the final stages. They're dealing with day-to-day consonants, i.e. Standard health care, and phone calls. Mental - health services, i.e. A psychiatrist and mental - health professional are part of the deal. It's a special subcommittee with a mental hospital. That contract is completed, and then the idea is that this model will be transferred to another prison in the country in cooperation with local health institutions and the mental departments of the relevant hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u14	Mr. President. It's good to have something in the right direction in this legal group. I'm glad to hear that. A minister agrees with me on the importance of ensuring proper mental - health services. As we know, the rate of mental illness is considerably higher among prisoners. In addition, men at least Three times more likely to go to prison and up to six times more likely to commit suicide than those not in prison. During the last 20 years, ten people have committed suicide in prisons. The lives of those ten people were responsible and the authority of the State, who lost their freedom. Now these contracts are final, like the Supreme Court. Minister says. I understand that there is 10% psychiatric status and 10% mental - health status at the prison of Hólmshei, hosting about 54 inmates. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it really enough when life is at stake?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u15	A respectable president. That is clear - and we agree on that, me and the other. A senator - that the situation in this group has been intolerable for many years. In fact, we have received indications from the international institutions that we will not enjoy it. In fact, it is more important than tears that we need such guidelines to respond. But I'd like to make sure. A senator that makes me very happy that I finally see the end of this situation. What is enough of the service we see fit to enter the agreement discussed here must be made clear by time. But here we are talking about a big step, which, of course, should have been taken a long time ago, i.e. to ensure this health care professional for this susceptible group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u16	Mr. President. A review of days' review of the assessment of Fish Room surveillance, as agreed after approval of the Generals of the Group of the United States and the Three Parliaments of Pirata. The report has been discussed in Parliamentary committees and the Supreme Court. The petition has been made to discuss the report here at the Hall of Congress. This is important, for the report is not only a review of the surveillance of the Fish Room but also of the government and the development of the monitoring. There is a strong public interest in monitoring the flow and use of sea resources, but the report says that the monitoring of fish resources is sound and consistent with law, but it says that the monitoring of fish resources for saving, deforestation, and support of the creation of the resources does not provide adequate support to the aim of water management and to correct contact with marine crops and to take specific measures to ensure effective and effective monitoring which is in line with the basis and decision of the General Assembly for sustainable use of marine resources. The results are not surprising, since he says that he has been pointing them out for years. Today, the Ministry of prose and innovation has contributed quite a bit of work to the preparation of a legislature plant and is referred specifically to in the report on the relationship to support the monitoring of the Fish Lab, but the primary products could not be carried out. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the sea why this work of the Ministry has not been successful. Who's prevented the U.S. Council from being covered by the legislatures? Why is the situation as serious as the report shows? Tells you the highest. Minister that it is because the project has a lot of control over itself to say that it is the interests that the Ministry has had to stop at the important work in caring for the interests of the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As the senator mentioned, a report by the State Review Committee has been reviewed in two committees, a management and a monitoring committee and a work care committee. I asked the Ministry members to meet these fine committees to inform them about my plans in the manner in which I wanted the results to be taken into consideration. I expect there to be an excellent agreement on the ideas that have been toed up there, for it is a subject not only that involves the development, the fishing industry, the fishing industry, or some individual institutions, a social project that many people have to do, whether it is the Landland Guard, the ports of the country, the moving parties, or the gods, who are involved. There are certain reasons why cases have not been carried out that have been carried out in the Department of Fish Labs. I'm not going to drag out on a crime scene or think of something like that. The task we face is to resolve the position that we see in the review of The Watchtower, and we must look to the future in that regard. It is clear that there are great interests on the part of all those involved, whether the state is a state, an individual organisation or an individual enterprise, even though everyone is trying to protect himself. It is the task of this group to restore the ministry's proposals, probably on the basis of the work I intend to begin, and I expect a good cooperation with all the parties of that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u18	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The report also shows that rural areas do not function as much as the state of the surveillance program they are assigned by weighting on the docks. The report says that we do not have the means by which weighing people because of the work conditions we have to pay attention to the combinations and the ice - pack ratios weighing. Then the weightiers are often linked to the former family, friends, and it may be difficult to ensure their indiscretions are tested. At the top. Ministers both know well to the level of rural government, and likely both of them know that in some rural communities, the developers have the authority to do what they want to do, even to each government in charge of the docks. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that the report shows that, in fact, both administrative, state, and rural areas have failed in the vital role of providing adequate management of the marine resource and have at the same time failed to care for the interests of the common people? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u19	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has a very direct question about taking someone to account for the situation as it is and looking there at both administrative points, state and rural groups. Certainly, both administrative positions could have done better in view of this, but circumstances at any given time create room for both the state and the rural communities to act. It may well be, and I don't hide it, that we could have done better in many ways. I'm at the point where all we have to do is take off the discussion and mention of the Senate here for the entertainment of the amazing and good television project called, i.e. I would like to draw them into work, which emphasizes that we are trying to look to a new technology, a new knowledge, a new ability to do so, including. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think there's enough chance. However, the emphasis in the discussion of the solutions of these projects is that we put patrolrs on the boat in every drop. It will never be. [[The president calls.]] However, I am relatively optimistic, following the actions of this report, that we will be able to meet for improvement in these matters, and it will serve the public well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u20	A respectable president. Earlier in the month, representatives of the National Farmers Association of Iceland signed an agreement on a review of the contract on sheep raising. It's supposed to be a celebration, so I want to thank you to the highest. A marine and agricultural minister, along with all those involved in the negotiation work, came up with a decision that appears to be somewhat disintegration. Interestingly, though, no mention is made of the big subject of the flocks of sheep, i.e. ... thecutoffs. During the discussion that asked for the working conditions of sheep breeding, it was called the need to go into the management environment of the products. In the country, there are nine harvests that have the right to care for sheep. Since these products are mostly farmed, it can be said that farmers always benefit from a basis for managing their business. A book of the agreement says, with permission of the President: KPMG reports that there is room for economic management in the sector that can be used to benefit farmers and consumers. Participants agree that it is important to achieve an improvement in the quality of the article and that they will be tested for the potential cooperation of the Marketing Authorisation Holder on specific aspects of their activities. Hv. In the fall of the fall, Signý Sycy Kristjánsdóttir and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir proposed that the products of the meat industry were reserved for competitive legislation to improve their environment. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not a reason to consider this great interest when reexamination is in the working conditions of the sheep's flocks? Is there someone working within the department's department's domain and agriculture to examine the environment of carves in the meat industry according to current customs?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate's inquiry, as well as his comments on a review of the contract that has to do with the condition of the sheep trade. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. Such a review is being made by a member of the body because the interests of sheep farmers vary greatly, apply things, and are difficult for both the state, as well as for the leadership of farmers, to set down such agreements. What a joy it is to know that the review is largely dissatisfaction, with a measure of reconciliation! That's for the most. Here it is correctly mentioned that the products are not specifically included in the agreement, that it is difficult to do so because the government is not authorized to take part in the affairs of the individual enterprises and, less importantly, in farms. I have answered that we have competitive laws in the land and are thereby a state - of - the - state agency that is to be won by the law and laid upon it. I've been at the scene to believe that corporate partnerships must first come into operation on the basis of the legislation established by the European Parliament for competition and cooperation on the market in Iceland. I discussed it with a company of products and also with the Contestant that I would naturally agree with the fundamental questions raised in the area because it is generally thought that there would be an opportunity for profit within the deportation sector, which I believe most people can agree on. On my side of the Ministry, there's no direct work on that subject. I know the Grand Prixs took it well, including the Contestant, but I don't know exactly where that work is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I might have liked it a little different and more direct, but it's just the way it is. In that bill as good as any. The members of Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir decide that we will be through the agricultural laws, where we will do the same as we do in the milk industry. I think it's very important that we take this step and see what we can do. I challenge the Minister to start this work, how this carnivore for the carnivorous industry could have a bitter competition for import. V.E.G. A minister is well aware of the challenges and customs involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u23	A respectable president. Yes, I do not necessarily have the same attitude. Boring. That is why he might have chosen to have my answer in another way. But I think we totally agree on that, both of us, that there's a particular opportunity here. The question is, How should they be brought forward? I believe that the legislature source has set up a market between all cooperation and competition in Iceland. I think we should work within him, as far as it goes. The questions we had. A senator asks here and starts to focus on sharing the profits of the integration of this activity to consumers and farmers. The answers to those questions must be answered. For this, our institutions are better equipped than the Department of Agriculture. If that's not a good way, and if it doesn't come back, we'll have to pick up the case on another basis and for that I'm prepared. But I have full faith that we can draw conclusions on the matter according to current legal procedures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u24	Mr. President. The report of Iceland's Economic Institute of Environment has been widely discussed during the past few weeks, mainly due to serious comments on the management of information on the effects of whales on marine life and whether the report really answers the questions that it was hoping to do, especially on the warnings made in the previous Agency report on the same issues where it was desirable that we would specifically be looked at factors such as the value of environmental quality, effects that these fish might have on people's views in other countries in Iceland and imagine the country out as well as possible impact on tourism. Serious comments have been made far, including from the management of Iceland's Encyclopaedia Association, where the authors of the report are said to be on the wrong or at best very simple grounds to assess the impact of whale and fish stocks, that the report was tailored to the current knowledge of marine ecology and is based on a very simple picture of ecology, ecosystems and food chains in the ocean as well as that the report is not written by independent ecology and, in fact, not by the specialists of the Marine Research Centre, but by the National Research Centre. This may be expected to result in a marked decrease in the portion of the study, ranging from 0% to 50%. There are many more questions in this report. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: Do Ministers think that a more direct consideration would have to be made to the national impact of another whale's use, such as a whale's inspection, in comparison with the national impact of the whales? Would it have been natural to have a conversation with the head of whale research companies who do not recognize that such a conversation occurred? It's the highest. A marine leader agreed that at least at least in a report by the Institute of Economics, environmental factors should be considered. Some of them, as a terrorist organization? In view of the serious criticism that has come from the educational community and beyond, do ministers think it is possible to base decisions on whaling on the results of the University of Economics of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry shall contain a few words. In fact, it has been a long time before the practice of hunting whales was running out in the last year, and it would have been time for them to make some decisions in this regard. On that basis, I made the point of my report last year, asking for it at the National Institute of Economics to provide this so - called global assessment of the effects of whale fishing, as well as the Marine Research Institute, to evaluate the impact of whales in the ecosystem, i.e. particularly about the food needs and their relevance to the environment. I immediately gave them the advantage of both of these works to make a decision as to whether we continued to hunt or to bury them. When asked if I approve and agree with any aspects of the report, I would like to stress that, first of all, I consider the court's treatment to be legitimate, i.e. to try to support as objective advice at any time. On the one hand, I'd like to say that the current Economic Institute report is valid. A senator here makes a subject of the responsibility of that institution, and she has to speak for her own conclusions and swear it either by himself or by her confidentiality. During the last two weeks, they have tried to do so in various ways. I believe, however, that many aspects of the report are naturally controversial. I do not share my opinion that environmental organizations are terrorist organizations, but I have a subtle suspicion that Iceland's Institute of Economics simply doesn't believe that the terrorist and environmental organizations in Iceland are all put together. [[The president calls.]] It is a long way from doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the Minister for the answer. What is interesting is the fact that although the 20 - year - old study referred to in her report that perhaps, perhaps, possibly, abduction of whales on fish species is not at all possible, no statement can be made, for a much more extensive investigation has to be made. There are research that I think is full reason to go on, away from all the discussion of whaling or not whaling, but more important than ever that we increase our understanding of marine life around the country, especially with regard to all the changes we face with the rising temperature of the sea, new living organisms, and changing sea stations. Therefore, I would like to ask for a second talk: Will a minister promote the raising of funds to the Marine Research Institute to actually study marine ecosystems around Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u27	A respectable president. As the Oceanographic Institute has stated in the discussion that the Economic Institute of Economics has produced the report, our experts in this field have multiplied that questions about the kidnapping are very difficult to answer. The knowledge of the interaction of these aspects of life is very limited. The modernism of the Icelanders has been and is, in fact, still thought about by the status and condition of the individual institutions, not by the interaction of the entire biosystem. Sadly, we have not come to the point that we have a set of tools or standards to measure it as a whole. That's what tells me the best of our scientists in this foundation. And when it is asked if a minister will promote these factors, along with other factors aimed at increasing our knowledge of the living things, I will, of course, agree with any aspect that it calls. In this regard, I would like to mention that we are taking a big step, General, by putting ocean research in Iceland in a completely different and better place than they have been for a long time with plans for the construction of a new ocean-based vessel, which is a fundamental and enormous interest factor for all people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u28	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in administrative law, No. 37/1993, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that a new chapter will be added to the administration laws on freedom of expression and confidentiality of employees of state and rural society, thereby becoming a section of the X. The objective of the bill is, not to increase and diminish silence, but to recommend clear and consistent principles on the subject. Interpretations and vague silence rules limit the freedom of expression by public employees and can also lead to sensitive information coming into public witness. Clear laws protect both types of interests better than blurred ones. This led to the approval of the General Assembly of Congress on June 16, 2010. 23/138 of Iceland is developing a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. On May 3, 2012, the General appointed Minister of Education and Culture to follow the Parliament resolution. The Control team directed them to the Ministry of Presidency to make changes in administrative laws that laid more closely on the content of the confidentiality of public employees. It was interrupted by getting Páll Hreinsson, now president of the EFTA Court, to write a bill on the Government Constitution of 145. Finally, the one mentioned in March last year's committee was appointed to discuss the improvement of Communication legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom. The committee was even. commissioned to review Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, which in the end of September made its decision to me. The subject of the bill includes the entire administration carried out by state and rural society. It is suggested that the new X. Government law establish a set of regulations that include a declaration that anyone who works in a state or a community has the freedom to express himself publicly on matters related to his work, provided that a confidential or confidential obligation does not stand in the way of it. This rule can certainly lead to 73 st. The Constitution, which is made clear here, to further link freedom of expression with the silence of public employees. In this field, the overemphasis on confidentiality and confidentiality have gradually been replaced by the importance of public employees having the opportunity to participate in social discussions and to share information on public activity in their fields. This trend is based on some of these trends. in view of many of them and the knowledge of government activity, the fact that it would have a significant impact on democratic discussions if all government employees were to be prevented from participating in it. Two. the same law, which would be the space of 41. Government law, it is stated that under orders of silence, there is no need for information about lawbreakers or charge of government conduct. This rule has to do with a close law on the protection of informants, but it is being prepared for a full bill on the subject of the same committee mentioned earlier, i.e. Committee on improving communication, media and information legislation legislation. The main focus of the bill is to what cases can be considered to limit the freedom of expression by employees of state or rural society on the basis of silence. B-team 3. The bill, which would then be 42. Government law, it is stated that they are bound to remain silent on information that is confidential on the basis of law or rules, or when it is otherwise necessary to keep them confidential in order to protect significant public interests or personal interests. As a result, there are examples of interests that must be covered by silence, for the security of the state, or for the defence, for the economic matters of the State, for the investigation of criminal affairs, and for the other personal and financial issues of individuals and of the legal bodies. The examples largely correspond to exceptions from the public information rights presented in the 6th-10 gr. Information legislation and is intended to match it. It is only permitted to decide that information will compromise if it is necessary to protect certain public interests or private interests of individuals or lawyers. Thus, for other reasons, the need for silence cannot be decided, e.g. based on the decision made by the superiors. In the c-mer 3. The bill, which would then be 43rd. Government law, is recommended for the limitations and discontinuation of confidentiality. It says that governments are permitted to share confidential information if they agree to what the information is about. It is then permitted to publish statistical information based on silent information if personal details are not included and the sample is large enough to determine which parties are not involved. The facts also fall down when the relevant information has been prepared legally, including when information is readily available to the public on the basis of a law on public information rights. D-join 3. Gr., who would be 44. Government law, it says that government or community employees are forbidden to take advantage of their position to obtain information that is related to confidentiality and that is not relevant to their work. This chapter is also designed to apply to experts and contractors whom the government directs to assist or administer services to citizens on government roads. A contract shall state that the matter of silence should be carried out according to the requirements of the chapter. Then the bill contains the regulations on the subject of silence, the witness and the reviewer who gains access to documents that contain silent information. If the bill is legal, the government will be obliged to advise the individual on the confidentiality that applies to the information and the violations of it. The violation of the confidentiality of public employees has so far been under the regulations of 136. or 141. gt. General penalties, No. 19/1940. In line with this, it is recommended in the bill that violations of the law generally defended the same penalty according to these legal requirements, financial fines, or prisons up to one year. Legal violations protected the fines, as did II. in the general penal code. The bill expects regulations to be set up to ensure the safe handling of confidential information from the administrations of the state, including confidentiality of information, preservation, responsibility and monitoring. It should be noted that with the Regulation, the prime minister is not authorized to increase the need for silence but is only to consider the management of information and documents that are under the law on confidentiality. The rules will be a model for community rules on the same subject. Finally, a total of 80 law columns are proposed in the library to contain a code of confidentiality for public employees to be referred to the new X section of the European Commission's Regulation on the content of the confidentiality. It is a number of groups of employees of state and rural society, from doctors to patrolrs to carry out the building of monuments, all of which have so far lived under different regulations of silence. This provides a basis for a legal unit and an assessment of an explanation of the silence required in Icelandic courts that have not yet been understood. The agreement with the bill was thus made that after the committee mentioned in the introduction of the declaration, media, and information rights legislation, they were introduced in a two-week open discussion by the government board of consultations. Reports were received from the State Department of State, the Bank of Iceland, and the government tax manager and customs manager. Changes in the bill were made in line with the reviews, as is true in general comments made in the report. A respectable president. I've been over the big lines in the bill where it's suggested that there be a uniform and clear rule of silence. My evaluation is that with its approval, the correct security of the management of information that is to be done in a secret way and that, at the same time, the staff's expression and information rights of state or rural society will be greatly strengthened. I have no more words for the bill than suggested that, following this discussion, be referred to why. Administrative and monitoring committee and 2nd over. at the end of treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for an important history in this important matter. As far as I'm concerned, there's an increase in the security of the people who are looking for community service, e.g. foreigners who come here to see the Foreign Institute. I think it's important to keep their rights in line with this case and that's what I think it's all about. Knowing that Hreinsson, the son of Pon, composed the matter, immediately brings a sense of security. This shows that we have got our best men on the subject, which is of utmost importance, for it is often difficult to find the difficult means of silence on the one hand to protect important personal interests, such as privacy - that is, on the one hand, the confidential obligation - and then it is also to protect public public interests. It's hard to find that average one. Hence, it is important that the work be done carefully, and it is a pleasure to see how this matter has been accomplished. I'd like to commend the Ministry of Presidency for that. There's one question I wondered about. It's 4 mg. c-joints 3. gr. For limitations and withdrawal of confidentiality, i.e. when silence falls by a person's own public expression. I think the committee will have to do very well with a person expressing itself, e.g. in the media, saying something about your own business. Does that mean he's done over all the silence? I don't think so. I think there will be a set procedure and that the Committee itself must provide guidance for this precisely, because it involves silence exactly the protection of private interest and privacy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that first of all, the bill is composed by Páll, the son of a Hreinsson son. Then work with it on the committee I mentioned earlier, under the direction of the son of Eiríkur Jónsson. Then it was again joined to Páll the son of Hreinsson, in order to feed them all. The job's done very well, I believe. The comment as hell. A senator makes such a note of the law, with the permission of the president: When information related to silence has been legally made public... So here's the deal: ▪... such as when you have obviously done information about yourself, the obligation of silence falls down from such a display. In itself, this is quite clear. You can ask yourself, " What is it? ' A senator is there asking about the words "How Would You Answer? " There is a possibility that if I choose to unveil certain health problems publicly, for example, I say I suffer from asthma, so I will eliminate the confidential information right here and now in the General Assembly's symposium, I am about to eliminate the obligation of silence. But that may be the problem. A senator would be wondering, then, if there could be some other instance where silence is lifted but when you choose to expose such confidential information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u31	Mr. President. I would like to agree with a minister in terms of gratitude to Páll, the Hreinsson of Pilson and Jónsson of Eiríkur. They are our very best in these things. This process is a well - known, elastic concept that we need to sharpen. I'm afraid there's the right to protect the individuals. If someone has, not asthma, but any other particular disease, is it permitted to inform the government why they have the disease? Or if we consider to be a source of alien protection, a public case, and a relevant individual gives certain reasons, can the government automatically inform us of the existence, presence, or position of the individual who may be applying for asylum, is a fugitive? This is what I want to encourage the highest. Commission and monitoring committee to review. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that this point will be examined so that a guide in that situation will be published so that, as it is mentioned in the media, not all ports will be opened? We must continue to be careful, not to violate privacy as we say, " Of course, public interests need to be guarded. ' I'd like to encourage the committee to consider this matter thoroughly, as well as the whole case. But I hope, of course, that this matter will be settled here at the spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u32	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has entered a very interesting point. I would like to state, because I referred to a previous medical report, that there is a particularly narrow list of medical silences, since this is very sensitive information. This is very clear in the report, and I agree with it. It is important that a board of directors and surveillance committee be thoroughly reviewed. I'll mention business information about real estate transactions that depend on silence. That confidentiality is lifted when property has been announced, and thus the contract is made available to the public. When an individual deliberately expresses himself in public about his private matters that would otherwise have remained silent, he has agreed to remove the information that has been published in such a way. Information related to confidentiality but has been legally made legally out of the issue of confidentiality. When a person publicly criticizes the government for its release, such comments cannot be viewed as approval that governments can be considered on the personal issues of silence. On the other hand, governments are permitted in their answers to refer to information that a person in question has made public declaration. Surely, then, this is important. The report also points out that in many cases such information can be very incomplete and even misleading or even false and that governments cannot correct or add to the silent information in public discussion, and as a result, it is often impossible to speak in a grammatic way about administrative matters without violating confidentiality. Thus, it is often all there is to do with proper government but not to refuse to express itself in controversial criticism with reference to silence. We interpret this clearly narrowly, but it is very important that we be very clear about the exact interpretation of this particular article and that the Lawgiver's will is made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u33	President. I want to start by celebrating the bill. I thank you for all the fine work that has been done, and I want to pick up the thread that had been gone since we have a little time to talk about it. I think that dot is very interesting. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier and the highest. Prime Minister answered, i.e. of confidentiality and public matters. You see, this has often been the case with criticism, e.g. the actions of the police or state prosecutor, or anyone under the order of the citizens, for cleaning that the government always has to refer to the subject of silence and cannot answer. I think many people's experiences are that they even deliberately don't have to answer. Without saying that it's true, many people seem to feel that governments do not respond to faults and refuse to participate in the discussion of important human rights matters or how various administrative decisions often involve force or power without even taking into account what comes from the relevant parties and always concealing themselves from the confidential talk to get away from the discussion. If we keep our cards right, we can raise a democratic discussion about this, about authority and authority in the community, and hopefully we see public employees taking a more active part in this discussion. My question to the highest. The minister in the previous answer is most concerned with other matters she mentioned, and this is about the protection of the informants. She mentioned that there was a place and that work was going on. Today, there is much discussion in the international community that the current definition of the informant is a little too narrow. It has only been placed in the framework that it is for jobs, but it is said that the definition of informers needs to be expanded, so it applies not only to those who are in a professional relationship with those who turn on but even to those eins Halldordótir's boat. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Because of the first thing that happened. A senator mentioned, when government agencies cannot answer for themselves and refer to the need for silence - it can be very normal in certain cases, as I mentioned earlier, e.g. If you are talking about the private address of some citizens - that is the advantage of this bill, and should increase confidence in society's institutions, that we are in harmony with these regulations, taking regulations from 80 law columns, and conforming these rules so that we do not have to question whether it makes clear, transparent rules about different institutions. Hv. A senator named a informant's protection. As I mentioned earlier, there is a short work on such a bill at the Committee for improvement in Communication legislation in the area of expression, media and information freedom. The timetable is that the committee will return its bill by March 1. It has turned everything over at the scheduled time so far, and it is expected to be followed by the bill in open consultation. I don't know if the committee's working with the definition of informers of the spirit. A senator pointed to it, but I can check it out. I believe that this is a relatively broad definition of what I have wondered about, i.e. that this applies to all people regardless of their general or public markets and whether they are related information in the workplace or outside. But whether that is exactly what it is. A senator appears in this broader definition, which she referred to, I don't know, but I can check it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the answer. It's a good thing to hear that this is a rather broad picture. I know that the Council of the European Parliament, where I take the lead in the legal and human rights committee, is to examine the definition from this broad foundation and to examine it. It would be very interesting and enjoyable to share what I have learned in that field with the committee and to be included in this work, whether here at the council or at earlier times. It's a bit of a complete package as the highest. If the prime minister enters the council, he will bring him. And I find the work around it and behind it interesting and intriguing. So I've wondered why a bill that turns to changing the law on how to establish a ban on the media was no longer put in priority. It is now all good and against matters that have brought about the freedom of expression and to clear it up, protect it better information rights, all of this, but it is now that the ban is placed on the press and its coverage a few days before elections. We have received a court order from the judges of the country that it could have affected the outcome of the election. It's a big democracy, a big freedom of speech, and I don't quite understand why they put it in the second part of this job, the second round. This is the way it is put in the command letter, so the committee is, of course, just following its instructions from the highest level. Prime Minister. But I wondered, " Why didn't it come before, because it seems urgent to me? ' I'm asking the highest. Minister if it agrees with me to prevent the government from returning to the county in the capital area 15 minutes before the campaign for media coverage of the country's prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u36	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here tore up a second commission on improvement of expression, media freedom and information. Now it is that the setting of priorities in a letter of command that I wrote for this committee primarily shows the position. On the one hand, we had an issue that had been working relatively hard, such as this bill that I recommend - but it was needed to go back over and put on a talk process and work in an adequate way. However, less recent cases were involved. That is now the only reason for this priorities. The current spring mismemerium is the bill for reevaluation of information legislation, which is in progress and is currently in consultation, including at the courts and at the General Assembly, there is a bill on the protection of the informants, and it is a bill that brings up a ban on the media. So that I expect them to be delivered at this time, before March 1st, that I may be right, and that I may be put in open words. I can assure you what. A senator that makes it very important for me to make changes in that environment, since she also asked about it. I think it's very important that we change that environment, and that's one of my clear goals by starting this committee. I believe she did a good job, and if we finish this job at the General Assembly - there are other cases here for a council that hear under any other minister but have come from this committee's work -- I think there will be a great improvement in the media and expression freedom in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u37	Mr. President. I would like to be delighted to see that the matter is presented and briefly review some of the things that I find important to me. V.E.G. When I was serving as a minister of education, a prime minister appointed me to the committee, which at first worked the case, and made Páll Hreinsson write the bill, which was very good from him. I see some positive changes have been made since then, with 2012 and a lot of time gone by. What a fine example! The prime minister emphasizes that he should complete matters that have waited for so long in the management system and that this work will continue at the highest level of the committee. Prime Minister's orders. In order to understand the importance of this matter, you must bear in mind that there are about or over 160 laws in various places on the confidentiality of public employees, which makes it extremely difficult for government employees to know exactly what regulations to make of their confidentialness. It is simply the easiest thing for public employees to assume that, no matter what they say, they will violate confidentiality in some way. This is very bad because it reduces people when it comes to providing good information to the public, the media, and others as needed. By doing what is done here, taking 80 different regulations on confidentiality and harmonizing them across the legal system, things are arranged so that it is easier for government employees as well as others to know exactly where the line is drawn. This just makes people sure that they can communicate information normally. So this is a big step toward light and freeness of information, increasing our understanding and certainty. As a result, there are over 80 other laws, but they are more involved in specific activities requiring more precise and more specific confidentiality. That's the best part. Of course, we need to take care of those matters in the future, but this bill is at least an amazing step in progress. I look forward to having other bills for a discussion from the Committee, and I am delighted that the matter has finally moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u38	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I just want to celebrate a positive debate. Senators on this important matter. I am convinced that we will succeed in handling it successfully at the General Assembly. I kept silent mainly because of what I heard. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy recalled that he was on a committee that I appointed as Minister of Education in earlier years. We will see that we will have to spend several more years if we are going to complete all the issues that we set out to take place. I think it's a special appeal to us why. A senator's being here even longer. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u39	V.E.G. President. The Government Treaty of the current government states that a white book on a vision of the future for the financial system in Iceland should be submitted to the General Assembly for review of policy decisions. It also stated that there was increased trust in financial markets, increased transparency, and financial stability, especially in other small, open economy and in other countries. Less than a year ago, I appointed a team to work such a white book on a vision of the future for the financial system to establish a solid foundation based on facts for the financial discussion. The White Book subject was restricted to business banks, companies and institutions that lend to the public and other financial services, including camp loans, savings and pension funds, to the extent that their activities and business banks overlap. Others, such as money policy, currency, and such items were not part of the defined work group, but they were considered in another group. There's been a lot of work here since the fall of banks over a decade ago. There have been changes in the regular work of financial companies aimed at improving their ability to cope, to reduce their risk of activities, and to reduce risk stimulus, as well as to reduce the expense of the community if banks run into difficulties. During the years following personalization, the Icelandic banking system grew over its own heads, was so much too large for our economy. Thus, in 2008 its size was about ten times the domestic product, but it is now only about one and a half of the land's productions and activities are reaching home markets. Monitoring has been increased, more emphasised on system risk assessments, and the total cooperation of governments has been made more formal in the decade of the past. Trust is an important foundation for the financial system. That's what we know. Although normal activity has been built in the banking system, when banks fell, trust has not been restored. In the preparation of the White Book, the staff had the public opinion of the banking system checked. It was observed that on the other hand, the main reason for lack of trust is the economic breakdown, which is still in the fresh memory of Icelanders and that the public believes that the banking system is too expensive. Thus, most considered lower interest rates and better terms could resuscitate trust. The White Book, all considered to be nearly 300 pages, is a major source of growth, but the project is also extensive. I'm going to the short time this is for a plan to account for the main points in the workgroup coverage. The white book's future visions focus on a constant and practical banking system that provides good service. They believe that this vision of the future needs to be developed in the light of three main points, as well as the main focus of the report. The first support is a good rule of order and a powerful surveillance that takes into account the development of the financial system. Another support is practical for banking, which provides the basis for the financial system to serve households and companies effectively. A third support is the solid hold of financial companies, which, with long - term considerations, contributes to good business management. The report says that changes in financial property will have a significant impact on the future of the financial system and on the plans for government sales on financial assets are important to protect these three key elements, especially by ensuring healthy ownership. As I have concluded, the work of order has changed over the past decade, and that is true both in Iceland and in the world. The risk has been reduced by changes in financial activities. For example, there are measures to reduce the risk of loans and limit the risk of currency, loans with mortgages in their own letters, rules to limit loans to owners, key workers, and linked parties. The responsibility of the management board has been cut off and the rules for bonuses that are to minimize excessive risks have been set up. The system's resistance development has been improved, and banks are better equipped today to cope with tragedy. That has even been true. increased demand for the quantity and quality of your own money is assured. The rules on scale ratios have been set in order to limit excessive bank debt, and the rules for greater amounts of money contribute to the failure of banks to meet payment bonds. There are also national regulations for the continuous funding of foreign currency, which are intended to regulate the composition of financing in accordance with financial institutions. National eco-efficiency has been promoted, and the SEC has been strengthened to increase perspective and clear responsibility. These changes include: in the increased literature of the Rapporteur to timely interventions. It has been developed for government cohesion, which adds perspective to the overall system, financial standards, and system Risk Committee. This so - called national economist has gained greater importance and cooperation with foreign organisations. The Union of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC, now in preparation, aims to further improve efficiency in these areas. Finally, with regard to changes in regular work, there is action to reduce the social cost of shock in the banking system. The 2008 emergency law is still in force, which provides extensive intervention sources which are involved in the implementation of other European directives which form further implementation programmes. All of this new setting has the goal of preventing problems and traumas in bank activities and to minimize the negative consequences of financial conflicts if they do. A respectable president. I'm just going to step back to technical development and a proposal in the White Book on debt. The rapid development of technology affects the activities of financial companies and monitoring partners as well as others, and it is predictable that technical solutions will be increasingly used to solve complex tasks in this field. The analysis of data is of utmost importance and the role-group suggests in their report that a central debt will be established. There would have to be a list of the commitments of all individuals and lawyers who were held in an irrecognizable way. The objective would be to facilitate the analysis of domestic and corporate debt development and the development of the risk of real estate. Such factors would also improve information on the application of national eco-weapon devices, monitoring the risk of loaning financial companies, high commitments and financial risk, and contributing to a higher financial risk assessment that increases the effectiveness of loans and reduces the possibility of ablation. The foundation may also be useful in identifying the distribution of debt with national interest assessments and economic decisions. The benefits of long-term and shorter-term financial companies and consumers from a central debt are of lower costs following a reduction of the risk in the system. It's only investment banking. There's been a lot over the years of connection or possible separation from business and investment banking in this country. In international comparison, Icelandic banks are very small and therefore highly dependent on the size and width of the economy in order to minimize failure. In recent years, we have appointed special committees to investigate these factors, and it can be said that the white book is based on work during the past few years, and the proposal is in the same direction, so to speak, and the previous committees that have considered the matter have found it. This white book does not suggest the complete separation of such activities, but it does establish a protective line due to the scope of investment banking work. The suggestion is that if the assessment of the FME for financial needs for direct or indirect inclusion of systematic important banks, there are two advantages to the bank, either to reduce or to establish a particular enterprise that would be handled systematically, governmental, and financially. The task force stresses that regardless of the suggestion of a defensive line, there is a variety of good things in the banking system, so it may be interesting for some banks to take steps to expand their ability. I believe we've come here with some suggestions that will work out a discussion over the past few years on the connection between business banking and investment banking. I believe that the suggestions can do quite well. An efficient financial system is one of the elements involved in the White Book and its importance in the homes of the country and the companies. Other factors that were born are central to the white book's work, an efficient banking system. There, cost is of great importance. In this regard it is important to distinguish between high interest and high interest. As noted earlier, lower interest rates and better terms are the factors that the common people generally refer to as best they can to increase confidence in the banking system. Then effective banking services are important for the competitiveness of Icelandic companies. The interest of loans in Iceland is higher than that in neighboring countries. Much of this is explained by the high level of non - risk growth. The Secret Bank's fruits form a sort of yurtall on loans, but interest roofs on loans. The natural growth factor depends on the underlying economy and is part of the outer environment of the loan institutions. These high steering growths actually reflect the prosperity we live in, or the function in the economy. The growth rate, on the other hand, is, in effect, the application of banks to the services involved in being between depositors and borrowers. More growth differences may appear in lower interest rates, higher loans, or both. In addition, banks collect a variety of services from their customers, and together there are total revenues from clients of remunerations and interest rates. When the growth differences in this country are compared with many European countries, it becomes evident that it is the second largest person in Iceland. This suggests that there is scope for increasing the efficiency of the bank management, even if size or inefficiency is taken into account in the case of the Icelandic bank. This conclusion is drawn from a comparison of Norwegian banks, similar to Icelandic banks. It shows that differences that are controlled by factors other than the size of the economy are 1.1 percent in a 2.9% interest level. A high estimate of loan risk compared to control countries is noted, but governments can also contribute by reducing specific taxes on financial companies. It may be that such a matter is in my Constitution for this council. The bank tax weighs heavily on operating costs, but the estimated reduction from 0.376 to 0.145% meant that workers would be reduced by 400 people at the three banks. The staff believe that banks in this country have several opportunities to make progress, e.g. by incorporation of digital solutions and increased differentiation or shelter and cooperation in infrastructures without the existence of cohesion. Such cooperation should not impair any competition where it will take place, but there are opportunities. That is why the group proposes specific measures to take. Some of this involves the law on the role of the Contestant for extradating. It is also suggested to evaluate the systematic importance of outside the competitive environment in order to ensure national response and efficiency in the banking system and to suggest that there is an effort to ensure access to international integration across borders. In the opinion of the head of the report, there must be an active competition in the banking market and a powerful consumer protection in order to benefit from economic management. V.E.G. President. In fact, since consumer protection is introduced, it is interesting to see the answers of the public in a fall - by - hour survey that has previously been mentioned to the question of who would search for people in the event of a disagreement with their business bank. Six out of ten respondents say they don't know where they're going to look, and only 5% named the person who's expected to be with such complaints, which are said to be the SEC or the Neighbours Office. Clearly, then, there is a need for improvement. Necessary protection of financial markets is important. It is designed to build trust and to reduce people's sense of having no objection to business banks if they hit hard. One result of the 2008 economic crisis was the total collapse of the Icelandic stock market. Despite the past ten years, the market has not completely recovered and is still relatively shallow and not as luxuriant as it once was. The largest investors in the stock market are the pension fund, but public participation is negligible compared to over a decade ago and even if further back in time. The share of individuals in the market value of registered stocks is now only about 4% compared to 11◯17% in 2002•2007. In the years before a crash, there were about 20,000 shareholders in registered companions, but there are only about 1,000 today. Active financial markets are very important when it comes to minimising the community risk of financial involvement and to increase competition for capital markets. The White Book presents ideas on measures to increase the effectiveness of stock markets that fall below four main objectives. First, increase the number of active and independent investment funds in the Icelandic financial market. Second, use foreign investors to create competition and diversity. Third, to increase the freedom to action to improve ability and ability to sell. Fourth, to increase public involvement in financial markets. Special emphasis is placed on increasing individual freedoms to the yield of additional pensions. This could open the way for new and independent persons to take on the product of special savings so far only on the custody of pension funds. Finally, further evaluations are suggested on the subject of unwillingness ways to increase the effectiveness of stock markets in Iceland. One thing I feel is how expensive it has been for those who intend to own stock today. The possession of the financial system is one of the key elements of the work that has been carried out in our lives. Therefore, I would like to give it here at the end of my talk. As stated in the Treaty, the government wants to look for ways to reduce its holdings in banks, although it is clear that a government fund will be leading investors in at least one systematicly important financial agency. The third and final sections of the White Book deal with the very matter of possession. It's no secret that healthy ownership is essential for the future of the financial system and I'll tell you here that it's not healthy that governments hold 2/3 of the banking system, at least When compared with nearly all countries near us, Europe, it stands out as a contrast to the affairs of the State in the financial system in this regard. There is a danger in having a big share. The wealth of government now has about 300 billion bound in the banking system. There are nearly 40% of public debt, or another standard of less than 17% of land production. Aggressive or changing landscapes in financial markets, e.g. Because of a new technology now being developed, or changing rules, the value of the State's property may be greatly reduced. In this large possession, there is also the cost of sacrifice. Money committed in banks will not be used for other projects or to reduce the debt of state funds. The holding cannot be supported by high incomes, since the profits of banks are changing significantly as compared to the last few years, and the appearance of lower profits is in the future. In particular, I'm here referring to the fact that profits have been made by means of a set and reorganization of banks' economy, a single economy that has been paid on high interest payments in recent years. The White Book highlights a competitive influence, but much of the future financial market has fallen to disrupt competition and to stop. There are already strict rules about who can own a bank and how to handle it. In this way evaluation will be based on the ability to have an active share in banks on reputation and experience, financial health, the possession of conflicting surveillance, and whether it will lead to the potential for financial theft or to the funding of terrorism. Rules that severely limit the potential of owners to exert their own influence have been intensified significantly since the last financial breakdown. These include new rules on how to limit payment to contacts, such as those previously attributed, rules that limit loans in their own letters, and hard - risk commitments. A respectable president. According to the head of the report, transpiration of the State's long - term plans is the prerequisite for selling parts of the state. This includes knowing how the State will use itself as its owner and what is involved in the social goals mentioned in the owners' policy. Since the U.S. banks were sold at the turn of the century, the rules have been tightened very much. The texting of sales is legal and the sale should also be consistent with the owner's policy. This makes clear what principles should be held in honor of preparation and sale, namely: Open sale procedures, transparency, objectiveness and practicality. These are the guides to follow when it comes to releasing the property of the state in banks. On various occasions, I have mentioned the possibility of getting a part of the public directly into the hands of the public. The direct approach of a foreign bank is likely to have a positive influence on the future competitiveness, stability, and risk control. There's a lot of ways to go. I'd like to state by the end of my speech that I don't feel that I need to be impatient. [[The president calls.]] We need not rush; we must be careful primarily in these matters. But it is important to provide as soon as possible a reliable and responsible plan for the release of property on one or both banks so that it is compatible with the future interests of the Icelandic consumers and the whole community. [[The president calls.]] It is my opinion that looking at Iceland banks is closer, giving it the time it takes for future property, but the development of it for the Lands Bank raises questions that we will face when the previous project is completed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of state-of-the-art review of this report. What's going on in this report is that it's just been a long time to take a step in the sales of banks. The state has been holding the Icelandic financial system for a decade. In fact, more and less have been said of this period of time that there is an unfortunate system of possessions, that reduces market competition, and clearly in this report, and that it reduces market competition, which is precisely characterized by lack of competition and competition. It is, in fact, consumers, who pay for this lack of competition, and it also makes it very clear that the banking system is expensive, adverse, and does not serve the basic needs of consumers, homes, especially small and mediumsized companies. At the same time, the government announces an increase in tax returns, including the U.S. In the form of roads, in order to finance important initiatives. So you must ask, "Wouldn't it be possible? " Better to speed up sales in at least a larger part of the second bank? I don't think it would take much to finance the projects mentioned, including in a transport program. Wouldn't be a good idea. Minister going to speed up this sale? When can this be expected? Because it's been spoken of for a long time and a class of the highest. A minister has been in the government for six years out of the ten banks that the state has held. In view of the ongoing discussion that this must be completed in order to develop a regular work done by a minister, it was a good idea to have taken shifts from collapses and devices based on European financial regulations, what rules must be changed before first steps can be taken for the sale of banks? But first and last, when are we going to start selling?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. Because of it. A senator points out that it may be concluded from the report that it is very time to engage in sales of the State's ownership, at least in the second bank, I'd like to think of something very brief. We set up the Bank Office when we reimbursed the Lands Bank. Then said we in the midst of the crash, This is a temporary arrangement of five years. After five years of release from our property, the bank administration will be shut down. There was no disagreement at the council. The mission to disseminate the State was thus seen to be completed in five years. May I also remind you that in 1st par. The crisis is the authority to reimburse the National Bank, to deposit tax money in the bank. It was an emergency. May I also point to the fact that in the legal rights of the state's holding of financial assets, the year 2012 was opened for sale of the State's share in the financial companies it held, only down to 70% in the Lands Bank, i.e. that the state should be held after 70%. The JóhannaSigurðardóttir government put out the budget bill and arranged for it to be sold from the Lands Bank. So we've been in this place for a long time, but there are some factors that have prevented us from covering up the discussion, including the following: The discussion of investment banking, whether or not we had paid for making investment banking work, would bring the business industry down to the root of the century, and would upset all the business banks and depositors. I believe we are now carrying this white book with a very thorough answer. I don't believe we can do anything but agree on it. Asks what needs to be done for preparation. I think we need to lower the taxes. I think we need to rethink the deposit of financial companies and end this with the defensive line of investment banking. The two important things are so important. Otherwise, this is so on the part of the government to listen to the council today, to listen to the comments of the White Book. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to make it my final statement in the previous year that although I've done a great job with the White Book, I'm going to collect all the views that need to be discussed before taking that step. But that's not far away to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I am pleased to hear that he agrees with me that it is long time to start a business trade process in the financial firms, at least in the second bank. However, the need to complete a reexamination is justified and sacred. It is good to remember that this principle applies also to all the other financial companies. The government does not have the entire financial market, and it can continue to develop that ordering, for it is a ongoing task regardless of whether it has a totally dominant share in the financial industry or not. The problem, however, is that nothing is being done to reduce this competitive hold of the State in a financial market. The fact is, when we read this report, we have an enormously adverse and costly financial system that is primarily responsible for the authority of the government. We have high base interest levels because of an unusable currency. We have high interest rates because of enormous demands, but especially taxation on the financial system. Most important, we have little or no competition for financial markets because the State is the dominant public figure in the market. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any sign of the state banks that they're particularly involved in the competition. For consumers and SMEs, the cost - making, expensive financial system is entirely the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u43	A respectable president. Despite me and him. A senator would agree that we could move faster, though, I think it is a fact that for some reason it has been too easy to throw moth into the cogs when these materials have been discussed with us. It has been too easy to say things, e.g. that there is still a great lack of review of regulations, that we have not yet resolved on factors relating to investment banking and other factors. It is out of the discussion that the White Book actually comes up, the ideologies to gather all these different angles, and to provide a basis for an objective discussion of real status and the real changes that have taken place. I believe that we have a successful success and owe it to the writers of the White Book for a well-worked job. I hope this book can become a basis for making decisions that follow a direct discussion at the council on these matters. I've been describing the fact that I see things happen so Iceland is supposed to be in the foreground for the first time. [[The president calls.]] I think it's unwise to have two banks for sale at once. We're supposed to test the benefits we have for Iceland's bank and then evaluate the situation further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. The White Book contains a number of good information that is important in making use of the preceding discussion. That's where they come from. published by the author of the report. When people were asked what they were most inclined to think of when they spoke of the Icelandic banking system, the words that often developed greed and corruption were what they wanted for a fair, stable system. But now there is no trust. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is not important for us to reorganize the system, we will determine how we see it as fair and trustworthy before selling parts of it. According to this study in the White Book, only 14% are willing to sell the banking system. The discussion from the moment it appeared, however, has all been about selling the system, not about how we want to see it in the future. We have yet to implement European directives that have been introduced by other European countries. There are many of them that are very forward, we can say. Technology is on its way. In some way, we need to imagine how the banking system can be favorable for consumers and that everything we do is going to improve the interests of consumers. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he can be sure that if we lower the taxes, it will make consumers profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u45	A respectable president. I'm going to start by answering the second question. It is, of course, that there is an active competition here, at the expense of the banking system, to reflect the environment in which the banks are in rather than their monopoly. Therefore, if we succeed in maximising the possibility of a financial market competition, all depositors in the banking system should reflect it, if we reduce taxes and fees. So I believe and believe the authors of the White Book, and they strongly suggest that we finish reducing the bank tax. This should be kept in mind regarding him that he does not burden everyone with the same weight, and he also has a competitive status in a loan market. For the rest, trust in the banking system, there are a number of ideas that we should consider and implement, which are directly designed by writers to increase confidence in the system by making the whole system more efficient. With more efficient systems and fairer markets, the authors feel that trust is increasing. That's important stuff. As regards how they're related to the possession, it's quite near. A senator that we have talked a lot about property, but we have also talked a lot about changing regulations and how we can consider improving the global response and despotity of the system, what we've done to reduce the risk of a government fund of disturbance in the financial system. That is what all the rules and changes made during the past ten years are about. We haven't just talked about it, we've legalized those changes. Specific reports have been published to draw this together, and this is still done in the report here. [[The president calls.]] I think it's time to think of the change in property. I don't believe anything but that. A senator would agree with me. [[The president calls.]] She has been a member of a government that has suggested a sale of property at the bank of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u46	Mr. President. The situation in 2012 was, in fact, very different when we look at technology, when we watch the program, as we watch developments in the financial system right now in 2019, indicating that the technology will affect the business of the banks. We know that. Therefore, we need to take down the Public Service and wonder if it is not quite good for competition to have state banks serving homes, to serve small and medium-sized companies, and to provide a firm point for the competition that is needed in the market. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider it important that the banking system serves a labour market of 200 people and uses scars that no one but us would like to use. [[The president calls.]] Is that not what matters when we talk about selling the banks and possibly buying them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u47	A respectable president. I don't think so. I believe we have a recent example of this: Double registration of Arion banks and large groups of foreign investors participated in the tender tenderoncerts, which marked a turning point in the history of Icelandic financial companies. We saw quite a new international investment into the banking system. I believe that everything that happened last year is evidence that the currency is no reason for the state's release of property. For this too, there is powerful evidence here in the White Book. I can't figure out what it is. A senator refers to the situation as being quite different in 2012. It stood here on September 25, 2012, and gave a bill for selling the financial shares of the state's holdings, where it was reasoned that it was now time to loosen all these property parts; it stood here by itself as secretary of finance, and recommended for the bill that the state cleared all of this except down to 70% at the Lands Bank. [[The president calls.]] It is very strange to hear the same senator come six years later, seven years later, claiming that the circumstances somehow changed, that people should be careful and not sell the property of the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u48	Mr. President. There have been three reasons for selling state property in banks. One argument is competition, and it points to exactly the same evidence as used in 2001, in virtually word - for - word sections. I don't know if there's a lot more to talk about. The second evidence is a risk. Then, for example, since 1624, the oldest bank in the world has worked in 1472 and the present form, so the collapse of a banking system is not a law. Of course, the nature of the act of order is important. Of course, there are plenty of banks that have worked for a long time. Then the natural emphasis should be on having a great deal of order. But the third argument given is an opportunistic cost. I find it quite interesting that the cost of an opportunity is given as a reason in view of this bank's personal budget of approximately 420 billion today. Same thing. The secretary of finance, and he has spoken for the sale of banks, has also spoken of bringing up a national fund of some 500 billion or more in the past. Then I ask: Is it not reasonable to reject all the costs of opportunism as an explanation of the need to sell the banks unless it is explained in a very convincing way how companies in Iceland, i.e. banks, binding capitals in a way that is more likely to undermine Kingdom funds for investments and other jobs than businesses abroad? I just want to know. Is there somehow a different opportunistic cost of these 420 billion banks and these 500 billion in future national funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u49	A respectable president. Hv. A senator does not give us one reason why the State should have a bank. Why not come up and really defend your government, if you come along and express doubts about the state's going out of financial business?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u50	That's not my job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u51	- No, it's not a role, of course. A senator, but if he is to mention the points he feels are insufficient to back up from releasing the government's ownership, he must take his place in the possession of the State. Ella's this poor statement on the cause that undermines credibility. Senator. If he does not trust himself to come up here and really defend the entire financial system or its brotherhood, far beyond anything else, it will just have to be his business. [[Up front.]] But it's a good argument I have in mind regarding market competition. It is not healthy for the state to take full possession of two large banks and to be at the control of an important part of the banking system in Iceland. That too is clear, though it may be. A senator can mention a bank that worked at a base of fourteen hundred and something, that running a financial business is a risk. It appeared to us all over the world ten years ago. It has appeared to us many times, both in private property and on government property in Iceland, and it certainly is a sacrifice to store money there. Of course, referring to the national fund in this context calls for a discussion of the underlying ideologies. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, of course, is also involved in the cost of sacrifice. Choices that humans have in their hands must be settled when they decide to set up such a fund. But that is a very long future. I am prepared for a special discussion of the case, which is actually leading to the council and is primarily about the ideologies, about long - term defenses for the nation, to suffer major traumas. That idea comes with the discussion of the funding of such trauma. [[The president calls.]] There are many ways to do so, and none in themselves is much better than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u52	Mr. President. I honestly don't understand why. Secretary of finance is getting excited. Of course, I'm just going over the reasonings that have been presented, which are poor. That's a bad argument. As a result, it is easy to address them. I will follow my argument in a talk about both why I'm proficient because we go in a certain but very careful way to sell some part of the banks, because I'm totally in favor of it, but also why we're not supposed to do it in the way that has been spoken of on the part of the government. So I don't think there's any reason to be upset about this. I was trying to get the highest. A minister to explain why the evidence is so bad that he proposes to sell banks in the manner that has been spoken. Because that's a poor argument: for competitive reasons. For competitive reasons? The competition didn't grow very much after the bank's personalization last time. There was something smart, not so there would be evidence to risk us into the places we were going at that time. So I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance finally: Is there any reason for his method and approach to the sales of banks this time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u53	A respectable president. Criticism. A member of the Parliament will present a discussion of a white book on the future of the financial system is critical of the report. I agree with the evidence contained in this report. They're well implemented. The report is about 300 pages. They're strong in my opinion. I disagree. A senator on the competitive show. To me, it is obvious that there is a reason why European countries do not focus on government affairs. As a focus on government interest, we generally have quite a different control system compared to Iceland. We're talking about China, Russia, South America, we're talking about a few states of Central America, a few states in North Africa, etc. If that's what it's all about. A senator wants me to believe that we disagree over a number of other issues besides the evidence of reducing the property of the State. Actually, something else came up in the middle of nowhere. A senator who just wanted to get rid of his property. He just wanted to do it with a reason other than the one here. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I haven't had them yet, even though I called for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u54	Mr. President. It may now be that the person here has completely misunderstood the purpose of this discussion, the purpose of the report, because I hear no better than to the highest degree. The minister of finance is so eager and eager to sell the banking system as soon as possible that he does not take the time to listen to the evidence presented or to the questions asked in reply, but he will hand himself a direct route to the man. I was disappointed with that because I was hoping that the report could be a groundwork for how we want to see our country's banking system, which is a banking system for the companies of the country, for SMEs, not for ourselves. There's a lot of good in this report and the highest. A minister did well over the debt, over the idea of separating investment banking and business banking. Of course, we need to take a good look at that idea and see how that independent society is thinking about having investment banking, whether the World Bank has a problem loan for that part of the operation, etc. We just go through it and decide how we'd like to see it go down and why we don't want it completely divided. Reports also stress that there must be a clear tenant policy and that the State must firmly establish a definition of what is expected of the banking system on community responsibility. Although the authors then recommend that property items be sold, this is something they feel they have to do before going to the sale. I find the public study published in the report very interesting. One author of the report was in Silfrina on Sunday and said that after seeing the results of the survey, they had changed a bit when writing the report and highlighting the importance of having no trust in the banking system as it is and that certain things are needed to regain confidence in it. How important it is that the public trust them so that they want to do business with them! I'm thinking we should be all right. Still, we need to stay on our toes and watch technology. It's an offer, e.g. Google, Facebook, Amazon, and other financial companies that will certainly influence the bank business in some way. Of course, the banks have to face these changes and find ways to survive and serve their customers with competitive financial resources. They must also be looked at where they are heading. We should not begin by going into a business process before we have told how we want our system for the future. But the question is, what kind of banks are for people and normal companies? In what direction will technology move the banking system, and how much does the government have to say? The European Union's new directive for changes in the banking system has been compared to changes in the telecommunications market 20 years ago. It's all out there, all over the world. Governments must ensure that consumers are benefited by changes and improvement in services. Speaking to economist John Kays at a meeting of the United States Group held at the Grand Hotel on April 24, 2016, and his book Our People Money, published in 2015, is certainly relevant to our discussion of the future financial system here. Now that the State has the most financial system in its arms, it is an opportunity to change it, not mostly to itself, but to serve the community. John Kay, in his book to knock around the world, is primarily a matter of communication. Instead of providing sound investments, they stake, gamble, and take risks that will happen in the past, as in the case of true Christians. That is why it is so important to watch investment banking and business banking and have fences and preferably separations. It's probably an investment bank business that takes risks and that people can choose to shop with such companies, but they have to be different, which makes less money, less risky. John Kay wants the banks to handle payment, to hold people's finances from their cradle to their grave, to increase their savings, and to minimize risks. We're supposed to focus on the structure of the system, on the activities and needs of our customers and to separate investment banking and business banking activities so that loans will not be used in risky investments. I recommend that we look at such things and take into account consumer protection and how public services can be inexpensively supported by e.g. Public funds and, of course, the services the public needs from banks. President. I've named John Kay and I'd like to mention another man when we look at the future planning system, Frosti Sigurjónsson. He has spoken to social banks and wants to look to Germany according to their role models. The fundamental difference between community banks and personal banks is where the profits are going. For private banks, the profit goes to shareholders. They usually want a lot of profits, and they do so quickly. They may not even live in the same country where the bank operates, and then they have no connection with the community where the bank operates, so the community has virtually little to do with their decisions. When it comes to community banking, it serves in close service, services homes, small and mediumsized companies, and does not make as much money as the private bank does. I think we should take a good look at those ideas. Time goes by, and I'm not yet discussing the proposals of the white book that have been placed into some number of joints, but I would like to point out some well - thought - out comments. For example, Dr. Brynjar Brafur Torfason makes a very clear comment. That's what I think we should do when deciding how to process this report. President. Finally, it is said that in order to meet the damage done to the bank crash, taxes needed to be reduced. I don't think there's any reason to turn those taxes down right away. We are still doing this harm. We can only watch what is meant by certain roads to compensate for a road system that has been neglected since collapse. No matter what anybody says, we can't be sure that paying taxes won't increase the profit of the bank owners. Can we be sure that this decline is going directly to consumers? [[The president calls.]] If so, I'm ready to look at it. Unfortunately, Mr. President, we can't be sure of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u55	A respectable president. It is not surprising in itself. A senator does not see an opportunity to reduce taxes, although the report is very well presented that the total number of taxes on financial companies in the United States is higher than paying on financial companies in other countries. At the same time we've got much bigger taxes and more pressure from the public paying on the banks, there's a greater growth difference in Iceland. But in spite of this strong argument, tax declines have a problem. This is not a senator's chance. This may seem strange to me, but it may not surprise me much, considering the Union's tax policy. Here's your investment banking business. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: thinks so. A senator did not suggest that the barrier line laid down in this white book on investment banking, that it will be drawn in line to a certain limit, and that the ratio of the bank's overall investments above these limits will be made to the bank to get back to the standards, the defence line, or to separate the business, to be good proposals to answer the concerns of investment banking? This is very important in the discussion. Then I'd like to ask who. Similarly, a senator with regard to his community bank: Wants to wake up. A senator changes the policy of the Bank of Lands, or Bank of Iceland, making that bank his own in the future? Is that what they're talking about here is that either of these banks, which are the closest members of the state, or are they going to be made into a community bank? Is that the idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u56	Mr. President. It comes as no surprise to the person here. The secretary of finance and the head of the Independence Party now wants to maximise the interest of rich people, as it seems to me he wants to do by dropping the taxes on the bank so that they will be more inclined to own money for the rich. But it's just not necessarily a drop in taxes on a bank. Rather, it only increases the interest of the owners. That's just the way it is. What are these taxes? These are taxes on banks' debts, which are most of them. It's a profit tax, a salary tax, and then there's a tax that goes into a deposit fund for depositors. The tax collectors were placed here to cope with society's damages because the banks fell and took us with them. There is no need to take these taxes off until we can say that they have somehow improved in some way for that loss. As I mentioned earlier in my talk, we are still struggling to find ourselves in a bad situation after a crash, in part because of the fact that governments, such as the highest, took over 2013. Economic and financial secretary recognizes, reduce taxes rather than add to the infrastructure. Yeah, this idea of investment banking and business banking is fine, but I want to check it out. I'd like to see what a special society means, what this standard means exactly, and who's going to run for trouble if this side of the bank gets used to. [[The president calls.]] I'll be answering about a community bank next door.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u57	A respectable president. Of course, it is quite remarkable that this is how I believe it is important to reduce bank taxes to financial companies to ensure rich people's better yield of their possessions. The fact is, when we take down this bank tax, we already have strong evidence that we have made the banks of every business more competitive to banks of the same size and thus have the ability to improve the efficiency of the banking system, which is designed for the benefit of consumers. Similarly, for every billion people we charge on bank tax from financial companies, we can expect up to 10 billion of us at higher financial prices. We're discussing this in the context of the possibility of selling banks and reducing government property. It is true that, in part, bank owners can improve the rate of lower taxes, but there is strong evidence that the growth difference in the country will be reduced by taking the taxes off. There is no doubt that higher taxes lead to lower sales prices on the property of the State. On this point, it should be easy to get expert opinion. I look forward to hearing about the community banking idea, as it were. A senator seems to be excited, and especially if they exist to change the nature of this financial activity, Iceland or Bank, turn them into bank banks, and what exploitable ideas should exist because of his own money bound there. We have over 100 billion in each bank, over 200 billion in the Lands Bank. It has to be taken in some context. Of course, it can be said: Social bank and social bank, there are different means of making it. [[The president calls.]] But the groundwork was being suggested that men should stop making money for themselves. [[The president calls.]] You only have to understand this kind of ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u58	Yes, it's a small requirement for me to explain in two minutes everything about profit and god knows what. But I'll tell you what I mean when I talk about one bank being a community bank. We've been looking at the Land Bank in the United States. It is simply to try to ensure some sort of competition in the low - level market in Iceland's banking system. It's good to have financial companies that handle payment services, but it's also good to have another option within the banking system. It is good to have investment banks that people who want to take great risks can shop, but it is also good to have a community bank that makes less money, which serves especially homes and small and mediums, which today actually carry out the banking system and carry the highest cost of what they are today. Hence, we should look to a bank that is thought - out of public needs rather than according to the needs of the owners. It is sufficient to provide good and constant services for the homes of the country, for SMEs. This would be one support to some type of flea that would be as varied as possible in this small market. Of course, we would have to sit down and visualize all of this together and do it properly, focusing on it before we begin to talk about selling. [[The president calls.]] Let's talk about how we want our system for the future, but don't be so crazy about selling part of the state in the banks that we can't take the time to look at the future system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u59	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for his passage here. Reading this White Books of the Government for a vision of the financial system, I cannot see the vision of the future. In my opinion, the book is more a summary of all sorts of ideas than some vision. But it's useful as far as it goes. She's well-dressed and comfortable to read. Those setting up the budget bill and the accompanying copy for printing should consider this setting to be an example of their own. The book also contains a copy of a good graphic presentation. For the results of Gallup surveys, see page 5 of this magazine. 33 of the Icelanders'attitude toward the State as owner of the banks. This is an interesting study showing that six out of 10 people are positive to the idea that the State will retain a share in business banks in the long term. It provides a powerful message that governments must look to when they face changes in property. On page 18. Thirty - five of these are also compared to the country's owner's policy on Norwegian. It is an interesting comparison and shows that the Norwegians are living in a very strict tenant code where the denial of the Norwegian State can be ensured if it is found that decisions against the common goods are to be considered. Of course, it is very important. The White Book recommends selling a total of 82% of the state's property in banks. That means we're selling about half of the nation's entire banking system. Let us not forget that the money of these two banks is 420 billion, or about me. So there are obvious dangers that could become too dangerous. This change cannot be made quickly at all. In fact, I don't think it should be sold that big, and it's probably worth noting if the buyers are over their heads that much, except at great discounts, and now it's better to wait on things. The bank's sales will need to be slow, and good time should be provided to discuss the policies and to prepare for the sale process. So I think it's very important to consider how the banks will be sold, both Iceland and the Lands Bank. As for the Bank of Land Bank, I believe it is proper to consider whether to use the opportunity to sell and rebuild the savings system, separate investment banks, business banks, and provide social funding throughout the country. The reserves have had a profound and positive effect on the social development of this country, as we know, through financial means. I think it's safe to say that they played a major role in the improved standards of public living. The aim of the savings fund was to promote greater savings in the public, to promote economic progress, constant access to capitalization, and to work on social projects. Also, I believe I can be considered on the sale of the National Bank, assigning a share to the public as a reward for his involvement in taking over the burdens of the crash. As we know, the public took on heavy burdens. This would bring us back a portion of what was taken from the public and is in line with the social importance of the system and the ideas of the Central Party in these subjects. Then, in the end, I want to come because I consider it totally pointless to the owner of the bank, a government fund, to have some kind of bank house built at 9 billion at the dock. The government is to have that mission terminated immediately. I ask, " Where does the prime minister stand in this matter? ' Little word has been heard of it. Moreover, the proposed building, aesthetically speaking, is totally unsuccessful at my judgment. Mr. President. On page 18. 147 of the book discusses the impact of the reduction in business costs. An example of reducing the number of employees by 20% is taken from 2,725 levels to 2,180. By means of it, we will save up to 7.6 billion. The authors believe that this will result in less interest or increase in interest of owners. I allow myself to doubt that this will result in less interest. Much more than that, I believe that making such a move is primarily thought - provoking to increase profit. That is how the Icelandic banking system has been. The consumer has never been first. In recent years the number of business banks has fallen substantially. By the end of 2008, there were 146 branches of business banks, which have steadily decreased to 84 branches, as they are today. In the capital area over the last six years, from 37 branches to 21. This has continued to reduce the number of branches in the last few years outside the capital area, which number 99 in 2008, now 63. Has anyone seen a decrease in financial services during this period? In spite of the fact that the number of workers is now down to the average number of people working at the contracts of workers'financial organisations has been offered in the bank. Technologies and automation are certainly playing a role in financial businesses, but in 2007 the bank business workers were 4,326 people; 1,450 at Bank, 1,076 at Copenhagen, and 1,200 at Iceland Bank, and 600 at savings. Today, the total number of bank business workers has become 2,850 employees; 1,000 at the Lands Bank; 900 at Arion Bank; and 900 at Iceland Bank; and 50 at the savings fund. So we see that there has been a big change here. These figures clearly show that in recent years the decrease has been tremendous. I miss not being mentioned in the White Book, and the so-called economy, naturally, in this regard. It is important that governments and governments recognize the current economy before there is a rich demand for an even greater economy. Let us not forget that the number behind these numbers is staff with families, and in recent years many have lost their job in banks because of the requirement for economic management. I don't know that if government workers were constantly working hard, they'd have to adjust and reduce government workers. On the contrary, the government, with the minister of finance coming from the Independence Party, has been making constant improvements in the State Department. On page 18. In addition, 172 says that increased economy is needed to increase the interest of the bank's regular activities as well as to improve public interest. I traced the number of staff drop in recent years, but I don't see any evidence that this has improved the growth rate in the public. It is a fault in this book, in my opinion, to put it this way and not to demonstrate the blackness of the whites to the management of the banking system is to the public. We all know that she hasn't done it so far, and there's nothing to guarantee that it will. On page 18. In the White Book, 157 discusses specific taxes and the official fees of a financial enterprise. The failure of the bank tax is under way. In fact, there's mention of more fees, including A check on the feds, but it was not stated that the rate of pay was reduced by the year when law was changed in connection with the government's budget. It is clear that the government is particularly concerned with reducing the curse on banks and financial companies. This, of course, is very special in view of the fact that the left green are taking the lead in this government. Then, on page 19. 168 said that the decline in specific taxes on the banking system is the greatest opportunity in the state to reduce interest rates. Of course, it is easy to blame others for the high interest we have in Iceland, all of which are to blame for the government because it is taxing banks so much. What, though, about the job life that has lived with high insurance fees since collapse? Even so, professional levels are high. On the other hand, I believe that there is a greater need for the insurance fee and that the Central Party even moved it. the adjustment of its proposal to the budget, which was sadly decomposed by the government. It is claimed that the tax on the banking system contributes to the high cost of consumers. I feel that there is no further evidence for that statement, Mr. President. Because of the time, I have to come back into the discussion later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u60	Mr. President. I thought it was interesting. A senator made it clear that there was no guarantee that a bank tax drop would return to consumers. For example, for example, there is a problem that persists in the political Empire that has been described as a reduction in the value tax. It is true that in the White Book, taxes on the banking system in Iceland are considerably higher than in neighboring countries and there is reason to lower them. But I'd like to have some. A senator to discuss only with me whether and how we could try to adjust things so that a decrease in specific bank taxes would result in effective and reliable results in consumers. This is a big deal of interest to Icelanders. If we look at how the interest level is in Iceland, it is not uncommon for people to have consumer loans that have an increase of 61.77%, though less with insurance than of course, all inflation takes place. In contrast, during the days I heard of a mortgage in Britain, which had interest around 1.5%, which is much closer to what we should be able to call normal. It is natural to talk back and forth whether it is abnormally low or what. At least it's clear that it's all too high in Iceland. How would that be? A senator approaches to ensure that a reduction in specific bank taxes can reach consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for the counter, nice and very important reflections. As in this case, if the bank tax is to be dropped automatically, it is necessary that the public sees that it will be effective when it comes to e.g. Expansion and interest and the benefit of the public. I'm sorry to scare the steps on those substances. We can see, as if I traced a speech, that the banking system has been adjusted a lot. There are a lot of people left out in the banking system, and many families have lost their jobs, which is likely to mean that the financial cost of banks has been reduced. These are the largest expenditures of the bank, salary and pay-related expenses, but we have not been seen in e.g. The currency says it's dropped. I'm telling you if someone in the hall responded to the registration of banks dropped something in recent years. I doubt it very much. I think it's our common mission here that we reduce the bank tax, which, of course, we can argue that it is necessary and perhaps, in the contingency of the sale of the banks, is of benefit to consumers. Like what? A senator mentioned that when it comes to products, etc. is reduced in natural prices, such as unions, which closely monitor whether the reductions of the type yield to consumers. Therefore, there is no need for bank access. It is a question of whether it is important to be monitored systematically to see if any of this type of downs will turn to consumers, since they have not done so far. [[The president calls.]] We can clearly see this in the interest of bank records increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u62	President. These are good points for a reason. In the context of this statement, a senator makes clear that when asked into the banking system, according to Gallup's White Book, the word most commonly mentioned by the Icelanders is greed. As you look at the interest rate, the specific taxes and charges in Iceland are certainly high compared to those in other countries. However, they weigh only a very small fraction of the total interest cost of the bank, i.e. From consumer loans. The largest factor, at least 60%, is the Management fruit of the Navy Bank. So if it were not easier to talk about whether some other economic control tools need to be applied at the Federal Bank so that they can reduce direction and try to control the inflation that is intended to be controlled by growth. There are a number of tools that give it back, so the growth is generally reduced. However, zeroing all specific bank taxes would reduce average loan prices only by 0.2 percentages and, in fact, less than 0.2 percentages. I'd like to hear what you're talking about. A senator considers the approach to less emphasis on this particular tax reduction and more emphasis on fixing the core financial and financial systems so that the management growth can be greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's interesting approach to the matter. I agree with him that we need to look for all the ways in which we try to reduce the financial cost that the public will have to live here. We discussed this when we discussed the money policy at the Assembly Hall, and then we were able to establish a peak in the Federal Bank, etc. That's where I think it's very important that state of state be transparent. It has not been, and too much secretism has been involved in the Federal homestay. It even came. The report says that this need to be adjusted and that it would also be necessary to publish the thoughts of the committees. The report noted a number of challenges. A senator mentioned this matter, and I'm sure he'd like to consider it. I think it's interesting too. A senator said that if the taxes were zeroed out, the loans would be extremely low. I don't know about that, and I don't know that. A senator is a mathematician and probably was over them numbers and I won't argue with them. But this is very interesting. What matters to me also when we try to reduce the interest rates and prices in the public when it comes to financing is that we get competition in the banking system. I think there's a need for a planned sales process that we're looking for every way we can get here to get a foreign bank and start our business. It's very important. Then there will be more competition, the more competitive competition we all need, and hopefully it will come back, and will without fail, in the form of a lower paying. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u64	V.E.G. President. This is becoming one of the most incomprehensible discussions I have ever witnessed. There is talk of a bank tax that may have no impact on growth, but there is a great deal of emphasis on reducing interest. They have even claimed that interest has not fallen; owners take it to heart. As growth continues to decline, there are reasons for this. Of course, what matters is the state of the nation's population and its decision for interest by the Federal Bank. What are the credit rates for the bank? All of this has an impact on the growth and also on the bank tax. If one is interested in trying to reduce growth or to decrease growth, it is reasonable to reduce this tax, which must have an impact on competition. So people here say that competition is not enough, but they are also special spokesmen, that one person has more and less the whole banking system and what he doesn't have should have bought, should have bought some of the bank. Then, in the other word, people talk about some competition. I'm just in some fake world. This is incomprehensible language, completely incomprehensible. If you're interested in competition, you don't have one person who owns the whole system. If people are interested in lowering interest in growth, they need to know what will affect their decision and growth. The required fees are one component of it. Gonna go for it. paritaprevir Does Þórarinsson want to object? Is it just this ideologies that you can't turn down any spells, because it just goes to some owners and rich people? It's not the owners and the rich who pay this bank tax. There are consumers. A senator, like any other spell we put on. It's not connected, it's never going to be unplugged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. He was placed in trouble. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator did not quite listen to my speech earlier. I've never been a spokesman for the government's possession of all financial institutions, I've never been. It's just wrong. Senator. In my speech earlier, I said that we must be careful about this. I'm all for selling this bank. It's just gonna have to be sensible and careful. That's what it's all about. Hv. A senator cannot accuse me of seeing a spokesman that the state has all the banks of the country. He's totally wrong. However, the spores are a source of anxiety in these substances. I mentioned it earlier, and I checked that the banks have severely reduced their workers, we know that. It's natural to think that the cost of these strains has been reduced, that's obvious, but it hasn't paid off to consumers, e.g. in the form of a lower repercussion. It's got to be. A senator can know and study. Another thing he specifically mentioned was that he did not understand that selling the banks and then having them, or buying the item, as he mentioned with Arion's banks. That's right. I used to recommend a careful approach and that the government would buy that part because it was very important in the process that was being carried out. There was great value at stake, and there was much evidence to indicate that if the State was to be sold on the watch, it was to sell the share of the State. A senator is referring to this. Other than that, I think I made it very clear that this case is already there. A senator is just wrong about me and my case in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u66	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator talks a little. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. Yes, there's nothing against selling, it's just not the time, it's time, it's the fear of fear, etc. [[The point is, it's true.]] This is the same thing to say: We're not selling anything. It's just that way. Maybe someday. In fact, those words cannot really be understood as different from those who are in great agreement with the possession of the State. When we owned Iceland and U.S. Bank, we wanted some. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm also buys Arion a bank, and it was a real struggle. There's nothing wrong with that. This reminds me of other senators who have said: "Well, yes, it's okay to sell, but you can't sell that much, and you need to be careful. Nobody's talking about the need not to be careful. There's nothing to start with right now. It has been observed that in 2012, people were considering selling property shares in banks. But whenever it is time, it is never the right time for some. That's how I understood this speech. I think everyone else understood it that way. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms are no particular amateur to sell the government's property, and he is no amateur to reduce the bank tax because he does not believe that it will affect consumer interests. Thus I understood the talk, and it could not be understood otherwise. I'd love to understand it differently, but it just wasn't possible. I'd like to get a clear correction on the fact that I'm wrong about the bank tax. Wants to play. A senator reduces the bank tax so that it is comparable to the tax we have found elsewhere in our competitive and competitive countries? Or is it just a misunderstanding for me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. I traced it in my speech earlier. A senator, I thought it was very important for a foreign bank to come into the country and have a business here. Got it. I'm not a member of Congress that I'm willing to sell the government's share at a bank like, for example. Iceland Bank? I've never spoken against it. I said in my speech, and you were right about what you said. A senator, that we should be careful in these matters. Careful. I think it's time to start selling things. It is a question of whether they should do so even in a scattered possession and allow the common people to come to it. I believe the time point has arrived in these materials. There's only one other thing wrong. A senator and he's misunderstood me in this regard. But so I contend with what I said about the bank tax, I also mentioned it in the speech earlier that in the leading process, the bank trade process, it's certainly true that the bank tax can be bad to a certain extent, but I don't see why it's so steep as it does. It is clear to me, and I have mentioned it before and more than once that there is no guarantee - and it specifically says in this report, this book - that this will reduce interest, that the public will benefit from it. That's no guarantee. We were discussing it here, me and what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, and trying to find solutions to make sure that a reduction in this tax results in consumers. It's very urgent, and I think that's what it is. A senator must agree with us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u68	How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u69	Mr. President. Of the main results, more than a portion of the white book can be agreed. The problem is that the White Book is a part of its discussion of findings that are given as essential: the possession of the state of banks is so unnatural that it is necessary to dispose of that property, and it remains immediately. I'm going to concentrate on discussing that idea, and it's incredibly amazing that the 90% of the white book that doesn't cover it is not the focus of the political bitch, but that little point is presented as a key point. As I mentioned earlier, we answered at the highest. The minister of finance is given three reasons to begin a private campaign, an irresponsible personal development in the manner of the Independence Party. There is a high risk of having a bank, high opportunistic costs, and the potential for competition is undermined. This argument lays the groundwork for a privatization blow. They're playing a song that we've heard before. That song is called the 'Einkavour' profits and national losses to make and has a pitiable theme that is played primarily by skirt - fold cunt users. But let's talk about risks first. I'm not going to quote the review of Dr. Ásgeir Brastrur Torfason's Brynjar on the White Book, which is very nice, and everyone should have read. But it can be added to the fact that the European Union has not yet been fully adopted in Iceland, e.g. on accounting standards, risk testing and risk criteria. Fearing people, as has been done, with another crisis is a very stupid way of trying to convince people to sell golden goose, especially when they try to talk up that these are so good things to sell. We know that if we're going to talk about some risky action, it's got to sell 16% of the U.S. holding-up conditions that are spoken of in the public financial law. At the sale, there's certainly an improvement in the state's funds according to the main excel accounts, but the flow of money from banks disappears. Nothing's going to replace it. Let's see if only the funds from the Bank of Lands and Bank of Iceland could be built once a year. There is also another risk of dealing with the kind of trade that has been mentioned. The amount of investors that spend hundreds of billions of dollars in cash and decides that buying an Icelandic bank is probably not the type of investor who is interested in staying permanent for an extended period of time in selling a successful financial company. Their interest is much more likely to come in, maximise soon - to - be - a - short - term profits, take out valuables, and get rid of the situation once the business has become dangerously low. Of the opportunistic costs, there is nothing further to discuss. It is fallacious to argue at the same time that this is a major opportunistic cost of binding 420 billion assets, not the opportunistic cost of binding 500 billion assets, although it certainly has the highest cost. To some extent, a minister of finance agrees earlier with the fact that this is fallacy. On the other hand, there is plenty to say about the competitive view. I agree with what is said about some competitive matters but remember that in the last five years, the bank has given 207 billion because of the State's interest, which is one of the very things that keep growth high. This is only realistic in the few contests of the bank market today, and we need more competition. But if more competition is to become, it might be the beginning of the tenure of banks today that would put a policy that would aim to compete more competitively with other banks in the world. The reality is that there will be an extremely low competition in the Icelandic banking market while the growth level of the home interest is so high that there is no natural basis for competitive management in the financial sector and while the currency is unstable and unstable that foreign people cannot trust that there will be a head of some value in the country after noon on some given Monday. If we want to promote financial competition, the way is not necessarily to sell the banks right away but to fix our rules, our markets, our economic basics, in the way of making financial markets that someone is interested in coming into the country from abroad. If we build this, they'll come. Now, Mr. President, I have reason to mention that I am no special spokesman for the permanent possession of the bank. There are many things we could do if we sold any part of them: financed the road system without taking up the road, building wood, etc. The Icelandic public is still burned from previous privatization rates and public suspicions about privatization practices are completely normal, especially when the plans come from the highest level. The secretary of finance, who has previously been involved in the privatization of state property, which has gone a strange way, to say the least. I'm not going to go back to that, but we can read about it in various reports. But there's just a few points left, since I have a short period of time. First point: In January 2016, government banking administration established four criteria for the sale of banks. That banks are strengthened and stable. There's not much stability here. At least he's improved. Respectability of financial companies is acceptable. We don't really have that information yet. investing is an interest. I don't know that they have him. And that financial companies are considered potential investments. I'd say they weren't because of the rule. But these criteria are good, and I suggest that they be applied. And then point two. Even if it is time to look at sales in some way, the emphasis should be, not on making a big sale to some degree, but, rather, perhaps, selling a quarter of a quarter of a year over a period of 203/440 years, as has been done in many other places. In this way, the foundation for a steady variety of long - term investors is formed that are interested in ensuring good business. This is what would be responsible for the situation. 3. We should first make up the parts of the white book, which are spoken, e.g. the common infrastructure of the banking system, consumer protection, the state of the camp loans and other things. There are many good things in the White Book that we should make available. 4. We sell the banks with just such a quiet arrangement, which would enable both of us to finance the road system and other things, it would be fine if we were to make an earmark of the items of sale, perhaps 30% or so each year, as a contribution to an investment bank that should be entirely owned by the State, which would be based on the arrangement that has been seen in developing banks around the world. He would have a special responsibility to lend on small interest to smaller projects that are involved in changing the environment and the climate and contributing to the development of employment in various ways. It has been difficult for an enterprise to finance such a thing, in part, because of the interest situation. And then the fifth point: When the public says that he has little confidence in the banking system and does not want to see the personal development of the independent party's manner, let us take note of it all. Instead, let us take very carefully to the earth, in a responsible way, which would certainly be a new expression of the financial system in Iceland, if it were to be divided. But we all have the opportunity to complete the order, to make this powerful, to do this good, and then to sell in a natural, calm manner as has been done in the countries around us. Mr. President. The role of the Icelandic bank is to serve the public primarily. Less and more reasonable growth is a step in the direction, a high level of service that contributes to good information to consumers is important, and a reliable possession for the future is to be the goal. We don't just do it by getting rid of the property like that. Therefore, let us not sacrifice these goals on the altar of Neonic economics, as has been discussed all too much sadly since this report was published and is in a sense the premeditated basis for this report, despite the fact that research is fundamental to its use. Religion has no business in the business of the country. And these are religions, Mr. President, trying to do this in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u70	A respectable president. I can't figure out what it is. A senator is going when he says that there is some religion behind the ideologies held in the White Book. The fact of the matter is, regarding the sale of banks, that many ways are pointed out to reduce the possession of the State. I want it to come, because of what you're doing. One senator points to studies and says that there is a survey that the public does not want personalization in the spirit of the Independence Party, some vascularism, and something like that, that there is no such study in this white book. He also feels that there is much suspicion because I have been involved with the personalization plans of earlier times. I just want to pray. A senator to explain his case and what reports he is referring to in reports - quoted here into the air - lies in the manner in which I relate to my previous personal development plans. I want to draw attention to what. A senator said that I wasn't at the council, and I had nothing to do with the privatization process of the time he referred to. It seems to me that what I'm doing is what I'm doing. A senator comes up here and wants to draw a line between the one saying in the White Book and its heading. His policy is to make it wise; his course is not to rush over; his policy is to be careful and do it well. I'm just gonna say, "It's my policy to be careful, do it well, don't rush over--and all the factors I've been here to count I'm going to be good in the White Book." However, it is noted that it takes a long time to prepare such a decision, e.g. on registration or sale. They need to think long into the future. I can see that we would look at the second bank first and have a chance to reduce possession of it and then evaluate it just as each step will take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u71	Mr. President. There's a lot of things in answer to the highest. Secretary of finance. Maybe first, I'd like to say that I heard him add two separate sentences. This may be because I spoke inexpensively, but to mention some privatary plan, which I understand at the highest. The secretary of finance is involved. I don't sell it any more than I bought it. On the other hand, a study in the report says that 14% of the country are not opposed to the sale of banks. It's religion that every debt in the state needs to be run down to zero. It is, to some extent, the religious friendship that leads to the idea of selling state property and thus cutting the flow of funds into the state fund in various ways will be considered as an option. Given the highest. When I asked him a few simple questions, a minister of finance answered me earlier, I think I have made a much better attempt to answer him. But I would like to ask an assembly, since I have the opportunity: Since we clearly agree, I think. Secretary of finance says he agrees with me in taking it slowly and doing it well, etc., can we agree to place some kind of maximum roof on how much money will be sold every bank every year? Could it be 4%?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u72	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to say we've been slow. We donated very large amounts of money into the Lands Bank ten years ago. I don't think it's possible to rule out the possibility of landing after other options were excluded that the government would have to go to register the bank and gradually make use of the market to dislodge its property. I don't think that should be the first choice. I've got to keep it up because I feel like I'm doing it. A senator overemphasizes the marvelous potential of the bank into the future. In his talk earlier, he said that if we sold the banks, we could pay as sensitive as domestic hospitals every year. Then I'd like to point out that if we have it in our hand, we have a total of 70 billion dollars from these banks every year, into the future, it will be reflected in the price of sale. It's perfectly obvious. Of course, the value of the banks is greatly underestimated in the white book. I believe, however, that this is a huge overevaluation of the interest capacity of the state banks at the time. Senator. It's not my religion, like that. A senator puts it, saying about the debt of state funds that they must go to zero, i.e. The value of the debt. I have said, however, that in the long run, and even in the years ahead, there can be no more debt. But I've recently written an article on how we need to keep out a set of minimum credits. And I just have to say how surprised I am. A senator should come up here to name City as an example of a case I have had something to do. Let me point them out, then. A senator says that here we have the administration of Bank County and Bank County, which selects today through the selection committees of banks. [[The president calls.]] I have nothing to do with it. The government and the government, in turn, make decisions on the behalf of banks. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator should only state in this manner what the minister of finance has in some case, especially in the case of paying, came to a decision on the sale of property. [[The president calls.]] Of course, listening to this matter here is amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u73	The president reminds the senators and ministers to hold the speech period, even though they are in a hot mood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u74	Mr. President. In the last five years, the banks have made 207 billion dollars for the State, and this is because the money - making industry is very high. This is one of the causes of high interest, and this is only realistic because there is no competition in the bank market. We can fully agree on the importance of increasing competition. Whether it is true that a whole hospital can be funded every year - okay, maybe not, but we must certainly see from these figures that it could go a long way away from it. Do we really want the government funds to stop getting this kind of money, like a flow, into the future so that any unnamed S-group in the future can permanently take that profit? I think that there's a point where we're going some reasonable way, but we have to be very careful about this, and certainly prices and prices are based on grounds and are one of the conditions that we can start with. To log the banks on the market and that we can get out, I think I'll be right on the road. But the reason why I have been going through my talk is because the fundamental concerns of people in the community are legitimate. People are afraid to go to other bank sales just because it worked so badly last time. There's an opportunity to improve the order. There's a chance to do better. But I'm not going to spend some time in a relationship right now. A financial secretary to various matters because time is up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u75	V.E.G. President. I think we're talking about what we're talking about. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr's even more contradictory than that. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. Hv. A senator claims that there is no particular interest in the fact that the State has the banks. Then comes the next sentence, which was first: Should the golden goose be sold and given to rich people instead of paying off the loss? How is this to be understood? I understand that man is a special amateur for the state to have banks. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator, because he minimizes the competitiveness found in the White Book: Be aware of the situation. A senator normal if someone else had 70,75% of the financial system? Would there be some competitive error in it? Is the senator's opinion of the Council of the Contestants that is expressed in the White Book and that is considered just of no value or lack of value? It is true that ownership must be credible. The holding of one party - even though it's the State - at 70-75% in a commercial competition in the United States, is not credible, even though we try to reduce it by 21.74% over the next few decades, or by what it was. It's a case transfer that's somehow out and south. You can't figure out the real policy of the senator or his party, how important it is. Counts 'em out. A senator matters that there are some competitive rules in this or not? Is it reasonable to consider the risks that the State has all these banks, or what? [[The president calls.]] I'm no closer than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u76	Mr. President. It sounds like a reason. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son are primarily interested in getting me wrong or having at least an interest in me. wrong after me. I've said, and I've said here just now, that I'd like to get rid of the property in a very calm manner. I'm saying a very quiet way, because I think it's more important that we do this slowly so that there's some normal fixation of property and distribution of holdings, rather than competitively, even if I agree with them. I'll totally agree with them. But I also said that for a competitive situation in Iceland, we have to fix the system so that there is a possibility that, for example, there is a possibility that we can. Foreign banks come into the market and strive to give them something other than credit card service, or debet card service. We need to be able to, for example. Get an consumer's loan. That wasn't vague. Regarding the golden goose, I said word for word: threatening people with another crisis is a very stupid way of trying to convince people to sell golden goose. Which is right. It's a stupid way of trying to tell people about one of these things: We've added the rule so much that we can't have another crisis even if we were to sell the banks, but at the same time saying, "It's so dangerous to have a bank that we have to sell them as everyone first - and threaten people with another crisis like that. It's important to fix the competition. It is important that we create a normal market. It is not normal, however, to do exactly what was done last time, to draw all things into the hands of some financiers, as the trial took place. Sadly, it worked very badly. In 2001 - I suggest that people take a look at this - all the talks that were held in this pit focused on the possibility of increasing competition, but the competition did not increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u77	V.E.G. President. True, it is wrong; the competition, of course, grew. We made money on it - until the banks crashed. I'm not mistaken. A senator. I think he's more likely to misunderstand himself. There is no disagreement about being careful. Nobody's talking about doing this with some class. We're just talking about an abnormal situation where one person owns 703/4.75%. There's a risk. I'm not threatening any collapse. Banking may be a problem. In case of a moment. A senator believes that we are taking 70 billion of the usual business of a financial company is not like that. The profits are against everything else. And if that were the way it was, like the highest. The secretary of finance has said that people saw 70 billion profits or 40 billion profits each year in the bank's sales prices. Of course, that is not to say that we are throwing some golden goose into some rich man. It's all about our interests, whether it's wise to have the banking system in this holding. The White Book points to all of this very well. No one is talking about going into some really good way to give and do something stupid because it was ever done in other ways in the past. There is, of course, a completely different work today. Therefore, I must say that I find this presentation so contradictory, for in one word it is said: "Well, I don't mind selling the banks, but there's no need to hand over this golden goose somewhere, and then we take the loss, and it needs to be done slowly - something no one doubts about. I think it's important for humans to answer whether they think this is a normal tenet based on competitiveness, based on business ventures. [[The president calls.]] That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u78	Mr. President. I don't misunderstand myself, but on the other hand, I think I'm wrong. A senator has not listened to the Supreme Court. Just before, when he said that he didn't want it to be the first way to start registering the banks and selling them over a while, he preferred some other way I interpreted, and I think it's the only correct interpretation, that he wants to sell more at once. Let's assume that selling 10% of those two banks, Lands Bank and Bank of Iceland, amounts to selling up to 42 billion banks a year, i.e. If we went to 10% a year. In fact, there is much more to be said to do. True, there has been no use of any number because it is never convenient. But I call it a long shot to plan on going a lot faster on this than I think maybe 21.74% a year. The other is so different that I find it extremely helpful to hear that the independents are picking up our lines of Pirata and, in fact, others here, that it is important to be careful, and I may come here to the buyers of the bank in my previous privatization. One of the things that went wrong was that the Council did not believe that it was a good rule, and was even taken into it, very earnestly, to remove all precautions at that time, what has been called the order or, by permission of a president. But by making sure that this is a good rule, we can create a competitive situation, so we can create a situation in which we need not worry about the collapse of the banks, but we have the possibility of having a bank that lasts for hundreds of years, as in many countries around us. The Swedish bank was founded in 1690, that reminds me, something like that, and it stands itself and has endured many trials. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need good rules, and then we can talk about selling things gradually. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u79	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u80	A respectable president. We'll discuss the White Book on the financial system in Iceland. I'm just gonna go over a few points in it. There is a passage in the White Book that the development of technology is taking over and by the process, the nature of a matter, the change for the better, which is also to improve financial opportunities. Legal changes from the European Union are said to lead to increased competition for financial services and will also be easier for consumers to move between competitive financial companies. The White Book estimates that by active competition for financial enterprises on the market, the profit will be derived from increased financial efficiency, due to rapid technological development, to a large extent, the consumers in the form of a better dresser. As far as I'm concerned, the lawgiver will continue to shape financial and financial services guided by consumer interests. It rhymes very well with our left green policy. Digit solution is also spoken of. These are the things that will come into that world, and they have begun their journey with great power. There are many solutions available that have caused branch offices and staff to decline. Of course, it is important that financial companies continue to respond to the pleas on high levels of financial services and render personal service in branch offices. We know what we live in small communities in the scattered places where the bank, the post office, and other stops feel that you are shrinking from your feet, especially for those who are not ready for much electronic services, as older people do. However, this has not changed the number of jobs that have been reduced, and branch offices have been closed. The White Book speaks of the causes of the financial collapse and the rate of growth there, the size of the banking system, the integration of risks, and the debt of owners, the weakness of banks' own money, the order and the monitoring environment. There's talk of subdiversive and lack of experience at the FME and the Secret Bank, his failure as a lender to the problem. Also, the internal insurance fund was too small on the basis of the size of the system and there is a lack of consistent economic policy. There is a very, very, very, very short period of time that one has to review such a dramatic matter. It is true that after a collapse we have responded to very much of what has been criticized. The risk for the bank function has been lowered and the motivation for risk ratios have been considerably reduced. The development of the banking system has been supported, e.g. with increasing demands for the amount and quality of money and the limitations of bank debt, so banks are now better equipped to cope with trauma. Changes in monitoring have been made that should result in better monitoring, increased perspective and clear responsibilities, e.g. with increasing sources for timely intervention and cooperation by the government. FME improvement projects, such as the induction of high-risk monitoring, have, for example improve monitoring. Also, the terms of an emergency song allowing substantial intervention in financial companies are still being used, but the implementation of the organisation is being carried out as a form of the bank action programme and the Rapporteur's response will result in difficulties. That directive is intended to replace the terms of emergency law. I wanted to come into the separation of business and investment banks because it's only been discussed. The left have proposed a matter of Congress before and more than once. Here, however, such separation is not suggested and talked about the size and width of our small economy, but of course the benefits of such banks. I think we should consider that and hope that the committee will consider with an open mind whether this can be limited, at least In some ways. V.E.G. A minister entered the defense lines between business banks and investment operations. It is considered considered to be a matter of view of interest within the context of the type of bank, and the White Book suggests that the FME will be committed to establishing such protective lines. It will be interesting to learn how this discussion will be discussed in the Committee. In itself, I find something very positive that appears in the White Book. The focus on the environment and society is growing in the activities of banks and other financial companies, and I think that the key is that such developments continue. The White Book discusses a bank, which has the basic goal of managing business primarily for the benefit of society and has often been called a community bank. As indicated, this can be done by e.g. focusing on community services in the bank's tenure policy and directing loans to SMEs in the near-environment. In this context it is also noted that the owner or owner of such banks would adjust their interest demand for the function to the point where the requirement would not be a factor in raising and promoting a high - risk ratio. It is not likely that such policies could have a positive effect on bank and other financial institutions to form my communities in the scattered regions, I do not talk about those who are involved. Such loans could be a strengthening factor in the development of new species and could provide a weight - support factor for the local job life and increase prosperity. We know the work of a graffiti, a Frustrated community, which has shown that small funds can be of great importance and have a profound positive influence on such communities. This may be one factor in stopping, and hopefully it will reverse the decrease in population that has taken place far too far in the country, as well as promoting more economic diversity. There has been much talk about competition and loss of interest or growth. I think it's clear that there's a lot of stuff in there that's been playing in. No doubt, though we need to do much better, it is not a secret that interest rates, including ones, have declined. Because the pension fund went into the apartment market. There is likely one factor, and other factors might be included in this context. I find good emphasis here, and to a large extent I can relate to the comments of Torfason Brastur Torfason, a financial lecturer. I hope that, as with any of us, she will receive good publicity on the committee when the case will be accepted there. There's a lot of tore I like. I also said that the environment has gone to bed in the focus of financial companies. I feel that one of the key factors in the fight against climate change is that the community all adds its weight to the scales to cope with that disaster, including the publishing of green debts and loans from more favorable terms for such a purchase. on eco-friendly automobiles. There are some positive developments in the area that will hopefully continue in the years to come. Then I'd like to say that the rate of economic development will change things in the financial sector in the years to come. Economics will open up opportunities, and hopefully along with a new order, there will be more competition. I certainly hope consumers are benefiting from this development in the form of improved fools, so it is necessary for consumers to experience that their system is working with them. We left the green have spoken to community banks, we have concluded this on our meetings. We think it's reasonable that the state has a large share in one bank, and I don't think we've changed. I also think it's nice to have a bank sale knocked off this year. I agree that it will pay to go slowly and see how the market will handle this. I don't see that some foreign investor wants to buy a quarter of an Icelandic bank. It may well be that it is exciting for some large foreign investor or bank, but it seems rather unlikely. Regarding the community thought, Gallup's survey is presented in the White Book, but the survey shows that the main reason for the lack of confidence in the banking system is high growth and expensive service. We cannot overlook the fact that only a little over ten years have passed since collapse, and this still affects the experience of people from the banking system. The second most people mentioned this as a reason for the lack of confidence in the system. In contrast, half said that the cost and cost could increase their confidence in the banking system and mention less than 40% improved business practices. In view of their findings, I believe that the factors I've killed on, that focus on environment and society, and new technical solutions, will be improved to consumers, and will be involved in growing confidence in the banking system for a long time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the review and perhaps a new member of the government class. I don't feel that the sound and image of the board agree entirely in this case, and I may not be surprised. However, this is precisely stated about the sale of banks in the government covenant and considered the case. What unites the ruling parties, including a sound and a picture, is overlooked at the expense of the dollar. It is clearly stated in the report, and I want to commend this white bookwork, to have the dollar, I don't remember exactly what it's said, our economy. It points to this high cost, and I don't think we can simply skate that we won't be competitive anymore with a dollar. I think it's a huge change to banks, to banks, like so many cases. A bank that is run naturally enters homes, and high interest costs are especially due to the currency. But okay, I'm not gonna ask about it. Hv. A senator rejoiced that the hall was knocked off at least once, and I agree that if and when it is sold, it will be based on trust and transparency. We are told to learn from experience and to set standards of wealth. However, the approach may be somewhat different. Especially in the board of directors, you can feel it. First, when does that happen? The senator will start the sale? Second, do the government groups agree that this process should begin during this terms? [[The president calls.]] Third, "wow." A senator agrees with the report, the White Book, that the bank tax must be lowered to that end. To make Icelandic banks more competitive and more commercial? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. She came in on a lot of things. It's true that there's been a section of reports on the dollar and the euro and whether it's better for us and whose kind of business it is. Perhaps this will be one of the points discussed in the Committee. I'm not gonna say anything about it being one of the reasons. Probably this case should get coverage like anything else, even if I have my opinion of it as a dog. A senator knows. I agree with her about the careful process, and it has been repeated that this is what we have to do. Of course, we burned ourselves so badly on the privatizations of the former, i.e. When we've sold our banks, that we have to have the people with us and show that they're a good, open process so that these discussions don't start again, that they're selling them into some kind of friendship prostitution. I think it's very important. I think we should get a foreign party. I think it's better. Regarding whether the process begins during this terms or not, this is, of course, in the Constitution. A senator entered, selling a part of the banking system. I'm not going to rule out that it can happen in this terms. I think all we have to do is watch the situation at any given time. This was the decision not to start the process this year because we do not consider the situation to be good enough. We also need to discuss this further. We need to discuss this in order to build trust, which is called very much behind, as shown in the poll published here. About the bank tax. I haven't been particularly excited about shrinking. I would have liked to have some sort of check on whether a bank tax drop paid off to consumers, whether it can be directly attributable to them. There's nothing in it. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, those who claim to know more about it say that selling banks with such a high share of property and such a high bank tax is burdensome. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u83	Mr. President. I must commend myself. A senator how well she copes with her role as a senator and keeps the government together because there are underlying opinions. On the one hand, there are green ones who stay awake on their watch, and then there are steps and independence groups that may be only on other tickets. But there are differing opinions. I feel that the crown denial has been characteristic of us today, but I especially want to celebrate. A senator speaks of the committee's special consideration of the crown. I feel that the government has taken any publicity on the dollar, basically off the board. I think it is very important that a dollar be taken into consideration when the White Book and its contents are discussed. It is also possible to agree with the foreign - language words. The sale has been mowed this year, and I must ask if the left greens don't trust themselves to go on a trade process while they're in charge, whether the left of them did not trust exactly to go in the process to control it a little bit and go on the process on their own terms, including, according to their standards. This, however, actually tells me that there is nothing that will be done about sales on banks during this terms. It is worth considering whether we Icelanders are supposed to have such large sums of money stuck inside the system. The prime minister himself has said that it is a question of whether we personally had invested in all these banks based on our current situation. Would we have gone now and bought in the banks ourselves? I don't think so. I believe that the investments all the people have inside the banks would be much better spent on the tremendous amount of transportation that needs to be done, including Here on the southwest corner, instead of going on the massive scale of the fiasco groups, with the Middle-City, we are headed for total dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u84	Mr. President. I thank the senator again for his objection and praise. Commendation is always good. I don't find it hard to be a council leader for the left green. I don't feel like I'm gluing something insurmountable together, at all. Life is full of challenges. It's one of them. Hv. A senator asks if we trust to sell while we are still in control. As I said earlier, this must always be done and should be done with the public and all of us in mind. We need to look to the environment. Is there an environment in which we can maximise the arrival of the bank's sales? As mentioned here, Iceland Bank is the bank we'd try to sell first. I thought the senator was unduly pessimistic. We've had just over a year of the season. We're just getting started, I hope. It's not like we're leaving out tomorrow or the other or I just hope we don't. I think we're gonna have a nice shot. But first and last, it must be about the nature of the world's situation that it pays for us to sell a bank, that we peak our entrance to the nation so that we can use it for good works. I agree that, of course, if we had had any choice, we wouldn't have bought all this bank. Of course, the reason for this is the financial breakdown we experienced and were left in our arms. I suppose we would have used this money that would have to go into the banking system at the time to build up social infrastructure. But it doesn't change that I feel, as I say once again, that we should think that it's a good, social possession of a bank, one of a large system-based banks. Then we're supposed to try to sell Iceland Bank when it's good, and we can maximise our arrival for land and country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u85	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a white book on a vision of the future financial system, which provides a solid basis for objective discussion, providing insight into the state and development of the financial system. It is suggested that the future vision of the financial system is shaped in the light of three main points that are also the subject of the White Book. It is a good rule of order and a powerful monitoring that financial services serve households and companies effectively, and third support is a solid hold of financial companies. All right. During the last October, a decade after the financial system collapse, the staff of Gallup conducted a poll on the public opinion of the banking system. The results of the survey indicate that the public in Iceland did not gain faith and confidence in the banking system in the decade of collapse. The first words that the public can think of to describe the financial system in Iceland are also. Greed, yoke, corruption, and high interest. However, when people's expectations of the banking system are checked, they include: forthcoming fair, honest, low interest, and trust. The situation in the financial market is that the state has two banks from three in the Icelandic market. When asked about ownership of banks, 61% of those who asked are positive for the possession of the state. The results of the poll do not seem to be a major factor for selling a part of the state's property. The recent effects of the financial crisis have not been established and have not been successful in rebuilding public trust to the financial system in the same way that has taken place abroad. The effects in Icelandic homes were immense, and many of them are still detracting from their vast, still seeking their rights in that matter. In the ten years since collapse, however, things have been accomplished. Rules have been revised and greatly improved in order to reduce the risk of the system, as well as the development of the system. As the White Book says, the banking system is now homebound, much less than ten years ago. There is increasing demand for financial status in the financial businesses, which increases their ability to cope with trauma. The risk in the operation has been reduced and the motivation for risk management has been reduced. The changes made in bank regulations also reduce the expense of society if, in the case of the systematic importance of banks, they face problems. But trust is called. The White Book makes it clear that financial operations in Iceland have changed for the past decade. There have been major changes in monitoring and risk assessment. The monitoring should be effective and should be interrupted if necessary. By uniting the monitoring of banks in one place, along with the United Nations and SEC, the overall vision of key financial risk factors will increase and further increase efficiency in financial monitoring and national security. The knowledge base for common monitoring is also more varied and the arterial force is increased. The Icelandic consumers call for a more reasonable banking system with lower interest, lower greed in the form of super-paying and innuendo, more transparency, and adrift of banks in the interests of the people. However, little or nothing is discussed with a so - called community bank in the White Book, which is quite a part of the discussion. Social emphasis in banking is discussed in various ways and what social viewpoints might be involved. However, the authors of the White Book, in my opinion, do not think of the box and try to find out the pleas of those who took part in the Gallup poll, how to find such a financial institution, social or possibly national banks, guide in the vision of the future, and to prepare for a objective discussion in that direction. It would have been intriguing to get these ideas out. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: In Europe, the government wants to look for ways to reduce financial management. Clearly, though, government funds will be leading investments in at least one systematicly important financial institution. The white book explains that it is important for governments to consider the possibilities for the release of their possessions in a complete way. There are several methods of sales, even as well as the trade process of both banks, which I think is pretty steep. It is important to follow a calm, balanced approach to the sales process, as you may be intimidated by your previous impressions. It is important that the entire process be transparent, targeted for the spread, variety, and security of goods. State rivalry is not to be overcrowded in these matters, and it is important for the public to feel secure and secure in the welfare of the community. Clearly, today's holding is not because of the government's will to run a financial enterprise but because of what was created in its time. The White Book has provided a guide from its authors. There is a discussion about the White Book in the Economic and Business Committee with visitors from the various directions that will no doubt shed light in a variety of ways on the subject. To me, we're on our way, but we're still off to shore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u86	Mr. President. It is proper to welcome the discussion that takes place here on the White Book on the future financial structure. This is a long, timely discussion. And while I have to admit that most of the things in this report are presented, we can say, some self-centered points that have been in the discussion for quite a long time - there is little new in itself that this white book really brings us to the truth about what it is important to do or what has been accomplished in the financial system - this is an excellent opportunity to take up the question of where we are going to take our financial policy in this country. It is proper to say in the beginning that during the past decade, there has been a tremendous expansion of the financial system. The rules are very different. We have tolerated it, including. in cooperation and taking into account changes that have occurred in the European Union at the same time. The financial system has been under way, and today the situation of the financial system is quite different from what it was here a decade ago. Systemic risk in the financial system is much smaller than it was then. The success of the reorganization, especially that of order and monitoring, is all of a great joy. It leaves you, however, thinking about the purpose of financial systems. What do we need a bank for? In the end, it's a competitive exchange of funding for homes and businesses. More important, it may be to look to small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, how the financial system can serve them companies and households as well. If we look at the realities here and the environment, we will see that the financial market is complex. Our largest international companies have little or no business with the national banking system. They go for their funding directly to foreign countries, to international banks that can offer competitive loans of foreign currency on a global scale other than the national banking system can offer them. Hence, it is mainly individuals and medium-sized enterprises that need to rely on the national banking system. This report makes it very clear that our financial system is adverse and expensive. In our neighboring countries, we usually have an increase of nearly 5%. It must first make clear what is stated very clearly in the report: High interest rates depend on high basals, high physiques, the cost of tiny and unstable coins. This will never be mentioned too often, and this discussion will never be avoided. We will never enjoy similar growth with our neighboring countries with the tiny coins we live in. Of course, there is a basis for such growth in our neighboring countries. But that is not a mere explanation. There's also a lot of increasing gap between banks. The average interest difference between the banks is about 3%. It's a triple interest difference between large Norwegian banks, about 1%. It's 50 to 100 percent higher than the interest difference between North American banks of the size of their size. This shows how indiscriminate and inconsistencies the banks are. Nor can it be avoided to discuss at least Half of this added interest, we can say, the excessive interest the banks offer, is explained by a high and specific tax level in domestic financial services. And I suppose that is another way to say that the difference is explained by lack of competition, which is also well highlighted in the White Book. The government's holding on financial markets in this country contributes to a far too little competition for a domestic capital market. That is the very point that governments cannot compromise. A costly, adverse financial system that does not serve its purpose, does not serve SMEs, does not serve consumer interests, is entirely responsible for the government. This is the currency, this is the taxation of the financial system, this is the possession of the state. All three factors are well controlled by governments if they are willing to change. On these three factors, the government is responsible for everything. Therefore, it would be absolutely possible for national governments to attack the necessary changes needed to create a competitive financial system that will benefit all the people of the land. What we're up to is a financial system in which the largest international companies are looking beyond the cliffs, financed directly by international banks on a global scale but offered on land. This same international company, such as. Seafood companies, at the same time, are increasing their investments significantly in the non-employed industry at home. Here perhaps the new octopus is being born under the cover of this one. Other domestic investors cannot compete with the interest levels offered by these companies abroad. The Pension Fund has eventually covered the land's housing budget, the individuals. In addition, the publishing and registration of companies on markets has tripled in just five years. It tells us that homes, the largest companies, and even middle-sized companies, the most trusted loans in the country, are -- everyone who can - escape this costly, expensive financial system. It must be to us here who are making a lot of thought that we can't have a national financial system that required law and order, the economic environment, the taxation required to make the system useful to the people of the country. There are other factors, such as ties to foreign funding, which are also said to raise substantial financial costs or interest costs for domestic enterprises. The fact is, the banks do not serve the role they should serve. They are not useful to homes, small and intermediate companies. The person who sits behind in the account is just an SME who can't go anywhere else. The last companies, the smallest of the loans that can't go to any foreign bank, are too small to go to the bond market, and do not get paid directly from pension funds as their homes do. This has to do better than that. It is clear that we will never be able to build a competitive international life if they do not have the service of a competitive financial system. Therefore, changes must be made. This includes a list of tasks that this government should have. First, the obvious thing is: The benefits of the currency must be objectively assessed, and we need to consider options to reduce the financial cost. There must be a review of taxation and a review of the government's ownership of the financial system. It brings to mind the ongoing discussion of when the right time is to sell. This is a question that we have been dealing with, in fact, in the past decade, since the government received the financial system into our arms. The reasoning has always been the same: It's not now. It's not right to sell at this point. We need to complete a reexamination of the book. There are no ideal market conditions, not suitable buyers, and so on. I don't think we'll ever get together on the perfect timelines to start sales. It is sobering in this and obvious that it will take a long time to clear out the government's ownership in the banks. So that my knowledge would be very wise to start with small steps. The white book specifically discusses the importance of getting into a foreign bank as a potential owner of one of these financial companies. A bank could be wrapped around Iceland in that context and given time to try to find a foreign bank that would be interested in buying the bank, even in whole or in much of it. However, during that search, it would be well to consider registering the Bank of Lands at a trade in this country, even sharing abroad, and starting sales in small steps. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In this way, it could be seen how the market handles the bank and how the postwar holdings develop while the state has all control over the process and would be working over a period of three to five years down into its holding part, to set a goal that could be a third and a half share in the bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u87	President wants to ask why. Councilmen to respect the time limit, and I remind them that the rosary can be registered again. In fact, members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u88	Mr. President. We'll talk about the White Book. I think this book, in case a book should be called, has some good things to say. But it's sad to see the way the people are taken back and packed together and thrown into a corner. Where's the discussion about the insurance policy and its delinquency? Where is it, in effect, tried to put the interest around it? Shall we, for example? to see what the people think and what they think primarily when we mention the banking system? Large growth, cost, yoke, crime, corruption, and greed have become what most people think of. Iceland has only 16% who have great confidence in the banking system while 57% have very little confidence in it. The reasons why people do not trust the Icelandic banking system are under investigation; collapse, greed, history, experience, dishonesty, corruption, high interest. The banks focus on their own interests and on making money. A survey shows that 62% of the people want the state to own the banks, but only 14% of the country's population want to sell them. V.E.G. The secretary of finance seems to have forgotten what happened to the last privatization. He wants to sell, not a question. True, it is bad that the State has to go into banking, but we know from bitter experience that a bank's private business is really dangerous to the country, much less the people who live in the country. The banks are big and competitive. Then it is better for the kingdom to have them, and to restore their gain to the moderation. Let's continue to have the banks, and let's change Iceland Bank or Lands Bank in a Bank of Society as a German model. Yeah, or we'll take them both even and turn them into one large community bank as soon as we can pack down an apartment loan fund and make it one share in that bank. How much would we save? We can also talk about - thinking that we've already received 207 billion dollars. in the last five years of making money out of banks. I'd like to say this here, of the highest order. Secretary of finance that such payment is not guaranteed for the future. However, the fact is that we have had over 20 billion each year in the last five years of payment. They say we'll get 330 billion if we sell the government's property in banks. But let us turn to the community bank, which is really an idea of how we can put our arms around the country and try to build up our confidence and faith in us, not just an elected agent here, but in the financial system. Let's talk about the Borg thing. This is one of many matters in which the common people did not have just one additional word. Community bank is public property. It can be a government or a community. The bank's objective and activities are defined by us by special laws and are to show that the bank's purpose is to serve the public first and last and his interests. The profit goes to the owners, i.e. to the public. Hence, profits can be used to support certain tasks or even to reduce taxes or anything that seems good. A social bank is a business bank, not an investment bank. Why do we talk so much about separation of investment banks and business banks? Yes, because what we watch, e.g. In the vast greed area that occurred in the banking system before failure, it is really that our depositors, the bank's depositors, were new as cheap money for investments. The bank that paid us ketel, a respectable president, for borrowing our money or depositing it into the bank, then borrowed it and borrowed it. We have not forgotten what happened. Had the wealth of state not already guaranteed the interest of deposit, many would have felt even more bitter to bind, but they did. A social bank does not participate in the gambling gambling machines of investment banks. So a social bank invests it in the real economy, not just a rubber check, but companies that produce real products. That is why it is much less likely to go bankrupt. A respectable president. When we talk about the future in a financial market, we step outside the box, we try them at least working in harmony with society. Of course, we need to keep it low - tempered and organized. We need to focus on how we can do things the best we can. Is it practical for the state to have a bank? In short, I have pointed out how I and the party of the people will defend the government's ownership at this point, when the public is really completely opposed, to a larger extent, that we are going to sell the banks right now. When we talk about, some of them, we're beinglittled that we're even selling a golden goose, that's just the way it is, that's the way it is today. We're taking enormous profits from banks, huge profits. But the community bank is really what we should look at. I think it's what should come, truly, if we want to be consistent and work for the people of the country. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep it any further, but I'm just saying, as long as we don't look at it, there's families, homes, and businesses having to get their balls done by 118 billion bucks. Only because of the index - this is not even mentioned. It is not even mentioned to eliminate insurance in any step or step. I wanted to take her off in one piece as she goes. The people say, " It's time to put the people first in this high council,'and that's exactly where we look.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u89	Madam President. We have reason to thank for this report. She's fine as far as she can go. Among the factors listed are that part of the banking system should belong to a foreign source. It should be noted that one of the big banks is owned by foreign investment funds, sometimes called hedge funds, at least Some of them. A minister in advance said that we need not rush, if correctly observed, but it was as if he was in a hurry. I felt like he took a little snout. Of course, the report is pushing to reduce the government's ownership of the banking system. It's all a matter of view, certainly. However, there is reason to step firmly toward the earth in that matter. It is absolutely necessary, Madam President, to sell a significant part of the estate under the circumstances that the market conditions are the best, and I would like to let myself mention three aspects of that relationship. The collapse made it clear that there was not all that would be involved in the surveillance of Wall Street and the SEC. There will be an even greater improvement in their efforts than there has been in the past. Let me mention that it has been quite prominent, to form in the news, that the executives in registered companies have been selling letters and causing certain disturbances and even the prices of markets by doing so in the late period of renovations. The sales would have fallen to create the idea among others on the market that these are people who have a clear knowledge of corporate infrastructure and think that their interests are best paid by freeing at least Part of its property. There must be much more faith in the accuracy of the surveillance process. On the one hand, in the collapse of an accountant's autographs, even though a foreign - style company was behind them, there was not a great deal of innuendo, as men know. It also requires faith in the vital role the accountants play that there is full confidence in the fact that their signature on their part confirms that the company's interests, in this case, are the means by which the annual accounts seem to indicate. Third, the natural protection of the participants in the market, which, in many cases, quit their own money or in the case of pension funds or other people's funds, is the protection that the justice system is designed to provide. The experience that we have received is not entirely conclusive. It is not surprising that there seem to be a measure of abuse on human hands, even in such cases. Really, to me it is an open question, Is the justice system fully equipped for this role, since there have been complaints and excerpts in the direction of human beings and difficult circumstances. Madam President. It seemed rather odd to me that a minister should take on protection from the high interest here, and his defense was not entirely convincing, that the high interest we have on reflecting economic success. Closer ones are viewed as factors that are closer to us, to form the high - control fruits of the Federal penitentiary, which are much higher than in neighboring countries and in Western countries in general. Similarly, it is reasonable to consider the possibility that the competition between financial institutions could be more powerful. For the interpretation of growth differences by the Minister, i.e. between the loans and the interest of national banks, it is reasonable to consider that interest in the practicality of banks management. But then they may not have been known, at least short-term, low-priority rate. The report has very little discussion of basic elements in the Icelandic financial system, the insurance policy that has been dug in ways known to man. If only this committee had been a great help, it would have been discussed more. I'd like to say that possible sale or privatization of parts or all of the government's holdings of the banking system will not always be the hope that it will be possible to import the land in financial terms into areas of the West where the prices of that kind are generally not - and not at all. It is naturally unknown for individuals and homes and less industry anywhere else than here. Thus, for the first time in a thorough manner, a reference was made to the insurance policy, taking it into consideration. This is the committee that discussed the future of Icelandic money policy. The results of studies conducted in the field of this committee were the making of a fundamental change, which includes taking the mortgage out of the index box in the shape and implementation of the Secret Bank's money policy. I say a fundamental change, because that joint, the housing team, has become a factor in the index of 30 to 4.40%. Other characteristics of insurance are that, as you know, all risks due to change in prices are placed on one side altogether. As discussed in the report I quoted, the Committee does not believe that the housing team actually reflects inflation, but problems on the market's forward side. The increases in indirect taxes result in increases in index, etc. Very detailed discussions, such as the separation of business banks and investment banks and the role of the Office for a problem, are necessary. This is where a decrease in bank taxation has been made. He seems to be primarily on the command of the government's leadership class in the belief that he will necessarily lead to a similar improvement in the interests of the bank business. It cannot be said that it will necessarily happen. I'm going to say that it's dangerous to link a discussion about the sale of banks to the necessary structure of infrastructure. There are other advantages. There are ideas of a national fund. It would be more natural to use it for that purpose. I know I'm going on a lot of ideological issues that the Secretary of finance could do, but there's a reason to discuss that. Finally, I'd like to say that I know that the secretary of finance would like to focus on council and savings. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I allow me to encourage the Minister to see that the fall from the building below the harbor, which I understand should cost 9 billion and seems to be building over banks of a much older kind than modern age. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u90	The President reminds me of why. Once again, members of the council are to respect the session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u91	Madam President. At first, I will commend for what is well done. It does not matter in itself whether we agree fully with all that is said in a white book about a vision for the financial system or not. The work is well done and is exemplary. What a fine example of handling matters in the process of making a white book on important subjects! Some of them can be controversial here at the Hall of Congress. However, it is laying down a basis that could lead to at least that there would be a more meaningful discussion of the subject. I look primarily at the white book that we address here as tools for us, but also for the media and the public, to determine how we want our financial system to be shaped for a long time or as far as we can see. We may not see further, so technological advances make our vision a bit blurred. There is no debate that the business of the State in the Icelandic financial market is vast, greater than in any country we would like to compare with. It's only in Russia, China, the states of North Africa and South America that the government's campaign in financial markets is similar or greater than this. We most likely have about 330 billion bound in two banks, Iceland banks, and Lands Bank. This is about 13% of gross domestic product. We have another 120 billion in three loans. Then the state is directly or indirectly responsible for 857 billion and may remember most of the apartment loans. The white book we discuss here points out that these assets are not without cost of sacrifice. Although significant payments have weighed in recent years the cost, even in part, of the cost of sacrifice, will not be in the years to come and will be much less. At the same time, we are faced with an effort to find out how we are going to finance very much, essential investments that will result in an unambiguous social gain. The White Book authors point out that in these two banks, Iceland and Lands Bank, the value of property is equal to five new university hospitals, or 30 Hvalf Vows. We are faced with the issue of whether we think - and we have to convince ourselves about it - that it is wise and best to serve the interests of the public to bind this money, 330 billion, in the financial system and not transfer it into social infrastructure, whether it is hospitals, transportation infrastructure, schools, etc. I am personally convinced that money and investment in the health - care system are more profitable than the binding of risks to the bank. I also think public quality of life will become bigger, and I am absolutely convinced that the structure of the education system is a more effective way to secure the equation than any other way we can manage, to make sure that everyone can grow their skills regardless of the economy. It is better to place money on such an investment, in education, to ensure education regardless of the economy, that everyone can get an education and a new talent, than to bind 330 billion in the financial system. These are the benefits we face. I'm getting close to this subject. When I answer the question, "Is it right and wise for the state to eventually get out of business?'I keep this in mind. Besides, I believe that the state should not have bank or financial companies, especially those who are competitive. In the long run, this will interfere with development and competition, and it will affect Icelandic and Icelandic companies. The purpose of the State is to be primarily to shape the box, set the financial system order that ensures its health, and contributes to its ability to knock on its own role, i.e. to serve individuals and to serve companies at the lowest cost. This is to be the principal role of the State in the financial market. To me, it is not a matter of whether the government's ownership of banks will be sold the year before or after. It is most important to have a clear policy about where we are going, that it is clear to everyone what we are going to do in the financial system, whether or not we are going to take over some role when it comes to holding, which I seem to be a very large number of people in this hall count as necessary. But I'm not entirely convinced of it, as I said before. We need to answer the question, Will the State merely consider the role and the necessary rules and legislation to ensure the healthy competition and financial stability I left behind - or is the State going to have a permanent share in one or two banks? What is the underlying reason? What are the arguments? Now we are faced with the need to reason on why we decide to place a mutual sum of money on a high - risk budget and not transfer it into social infrastructure or to make the best of it. To place the upcoming price of the government's property in banks in the national funds, in the state's Pension bonds, or in other ways. If it is the conclusion here that it is necessary for the State to have a share in a business bank, then a decision must be made on the question of who the owner is, what is its policy, and why. What is the purpose of possession? I fear that the government's possession of a systemally important bank may have serious consequences when it comes to a financial market rivalry, that it will reduce and inhibit competition. In fact, it is spoken of as being under the hat of a so - called community bank - I'm going to understand exactly what it means - subsidized financial services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u92	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a meaningful and extensive speech. There are many things to agree with, but there is also something else that makes you think about it. Basically, I share it as a boy. A senator said here. We especially need to ask ourselves, " Is it right at this time to hold 330 billion fast, everyone in the banking system? ' I'm the opinion, especially in the experience we have to learn from, that if and when we go to the bank sale - we could start, as some have said, at an Iceland Bank in some parts - the process must be clear and we need to consult, not just between the government parties, but across the council, and most widely in the community, about how we are doing it. I think we need to consider how to get this money out of the way to build up other aspects of society. I thought why. A senator describes his vision of the education system very well, and can strongly agree with it, to use the educational system, including. to promote the equation in society. Now, or take that money in monotonous action. There is an enormous amount of action that we need here in the southwest corner in order to keep clear of the tax increases that the greater part is going to proclaim. I want to ask you why. A senator, since it has been found that nothing will be done this year, and left greens have especially rejoiced: How will men use the year to build up the rules and policies for this trade process? After today's discussion, it is obvious that the board of directors is making a huge disagreement. There are two classes that talk about community banks, and there is especially one class that talks about selling. But then we have a government contract. How can you tell? A senator of this matter comes forward? Without going to some pits, we may have the mature discussion that we are trying to approach a common goal in trying to get rid of this government's holding in the banks to do so. spending money on other clear, strong community projects like that. A senator came in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u93	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may be reasonably hoping that in this discussion, we have just what is necessary. The committee I'm serving on, the Economic and Business Committee, has already started a discussion on the White Book. We will continue that discussion, calling out to our guests, getting different attitudes - and gradually improving our thinking. I'm not necessarily saying that we'll be one of the committees and agreeing in all things, but I think that's a basis. This white book provides a good basis for our success in discussing the matter in a balanced way. There's no rush, as I said in my speech earlier. It doesn't matter to me whether we're talking about selling some property in the financial institutions of the year before or after. The main thing is that we're here to make clear a future policy. Of course, it would be desirable for all of us to be able to unite in the viewpoints that I believe are right. I realize, however, that I have something in the country - but I'm still working on it and I'll do my part. But I also call attention to the fact that it is true that starting the process may be wise by turning to Iceland Bank. Maybe just start by registering the stocks and selling them slowly and by bites. There are already fixed rules about who can carry an active possession and what role they need to meet. But I remind you, the Independence Party, and the Supreme Court. Bjarni Benediktsson, in particular, has discussed that it may be wise to give the public some of the property that the State has placed in the business banks. [[The president calls.]] There must be something we should discuss open in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u94	Madam President. Yes, I agree that we need to build a strong foundation here. I know why. This will be done thoroughly by the Economic and Business Committee. It is important that they develop faith and trust in the process. It simply gives us more to the banks, and we also have a set foundation in our community to help them function properly, and people start to trust more fully what is happening. I'd like to say, though, that trust in financial institutions has increased. It is also important to draw it out. I agree that developing this course is the most important thing to do. The discussion, however, is also not to be abandoned because the discussion is difficult for the members of the board of directors. We'll figure it out. We have to be able to shape policy, we're going to take part of the trade process? And I would like to make it clear that I believe that we should have a solid object, e.g. in the Bank of Lands and speaking of a policy of a Norwegian role model that has been extremely successful, how are regulations regarding the seat of government representatives? I don't think we need to look far beyond the limits to gain confidence in the banking system, and we can especially look to the northern countries. It has been characteristic of the debate that there is no convergence between the categories on the decline of the bank tax. While one category, the Independence Party, speaks of the importance of lowering the bank tax because of the competitiveness of banks, including To increase prices in possible sales procedures, other management groups have been concerned about taking such a reduction. I'm asking why. A senator on the subject. Other than that, I am glad to hear that tone. I think it matters that when it comes to discussions about the sales of banks, the council has the opportunity to look carefully at all the speculations that are natural.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u95	Madam President. Take the initiative. This white book was used for this discussion by the secretary of finance. That discussion continues. It's not over today. On the contrary, any speculation that the government parties avoid a discussion of the future financial structure is not valid. In fact, we are so proud of the government class that we considered it proper to approach the vision in a specific way in the government covenant. So it's a matter of exactly where the government groups want to go. There is also a possibility that the government intends and believes that the state is holding the upper hand in at least one bank. I don't think so. But I do support the government in achieving that goal. But as for the bank tax, to turn down the bank tax is not about that, like before. A senator was wondering, therefore, that the prices on the banks would rise - which is true. The decrease in bank tax is about the competitiveness of Icelandic banks to provide services at competitive prices. Unlike most of our Icelanders, who have the power to do business with foreign banks, it is a home, but especially small and mediumsized enterprises that do not have to carry the much tax laid on Icelandic banks. [[The president calls.]] These are special spells that reduce the competitiveness of Icelandic professional life. That's why it's so important to turn down the bank tax. It's very important to have a good time. Councilmen came to realize the simple fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u96	The president again reminds members of the Council to respect the time limit, both in speeches and in the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u97	President. This is the finest discussion ever. As we have seen, there is a fertile and positive discussion of the future of the financial system at the very best. Governments. It's starting at a council hall today, and I'm sure it won't be the last time we discuss the future financial arrangements here. The White Book is the ideal foundation for this discussion. It contains many fine thoughts that can benefit us who will make the decisions regarding the work that lies ahead. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason got in just a few minutes ago, we're sure about the financial system in a government contract, by permission of presidents: The financial system is to be stable and to serve the community in a reasonable and practical way. The State's holding of financial companies is the largest in Europe, and the government wants to look for ways to reduce it. It is clear, however, that government funds will be leading investors in at least one systematicly important financial agency. This is government policy. By it I work for the government's sponsorship. However, there are a number of factors involved and the ideas we have discussed that are worth considering exactly what we are referring to, where we are going to go, etc. But these are the lines we're working on. There has been much discussion of the government's holding on finance. Thus, some have found a measure of despondency. I mentioned earlier that there are good things in the white book. Here is a fine quote from a report from the World Bank Fund that I intend to quote directly from the White Book: Since 2017, the benefits of the establishment of state funds from banks are considered to be social and economic support. The social role includes that state banks are likely to be involved in projects that contribute to social welfare, e.g. by borrowing to areas that other creditors do not have because of market failure. Thus, the arrival of the State as owner is in the context of running a sort of evolutionary bank that systematically finances important jobs that the private sector does not want or cannot care for. This suggests that private banks reduce the financial value more rapidly than the financial bank. And shortly thereafter in the White Book, which we have been talking about today, and rightly so, for many good things are there, says the president's permission: ▪ Nothing has been shown during the work of the White Book, suggesting that banks owned by government over the past few years were less effective than rivals who did not play the ruling property of the State. In general, the Kingdom is considered a solid owner. In addition, if a government is in trouble, it may seem that it has a stronger position than others to support a bank on its property. You see, research shows, and scholars find that, in various advantages to the possession of the State, and perhaps because the government has the policy that the State will be the leading investor in at least one systematicly important financial agency. You see, I have, and as a result, I have expressed myself about it in this place before, to some extent, the discussion has gone a little out of the way when it comes to the future of the financial system. We kept from getting a white book, which is fundamental to our discussion, our device to discuss that matter, and we wondered how we could spend the money we would get from banks. We let go of everything in between. When I talk to him, I mean the general discussion in the community. That is why I have been delighted to hear how many people talk about being careful about such matters, having to set a lengthy course, and doing so slowly, whatever the decision may be. We cannot overlook the fear of the steps. That's not possible. We cannot stand in this hall shamelessly ten years after the collapse of the economy and talk about the privatization of banks as if from loose air and in empty space. Trust is important. Therefore, we have an obligation to be good at all aspects of our work. We are under obligation to examine every possibility, not to rule out any possibility. I have thought that if I jumped from the discussion or from the White Book to spend sales money, we would be very limited, because we would not entertain all the possibilities. What does it mean that the state is going to be leading investors in at least one systematicly important financial agency? Does that mean selling one bank? I don't know. Does this mean that two banks may be united? There's nothing to say that banks need three. It is noted in the excellent review of Torfason Brumur, a financial council member, that the ideas in the White Book that three are magic numbers about size or number of banks are somewhat loose. The statement that the minimum number of banks is three is not based on particularly strong reasoning. Is it not worth one Mass to consider the financial structure of Iceland's economy? I think we need to talk more about competition outside. I think that after 20 years, we're going to talk about the financial system on a completely different basis. Then we will look at the fact that competition is, as it already is, most important from abroad. President. There was a reference to a community bank. I understand that some reason, saying: These categories talk about community banks, others don't, and some even make fun of them. We don't know what a community bank is because we haven't agreed on the outcome. Mr. President, I'm going to quote the controversial review of a representative of the Council of Financial Affairs, Torfason Brastrur Brynjar: ▪ The white literature on community banks, savings, and social viewpoints in banking are relatively limited. The 2014 Commission report on the savings fund is not referred to. It may well be that one of the three banks of the Icelandic market will be all owned by the people of the country or by an autoemployment agency who employs the profits for community projects. This may contribute to a wide range of fleas from banks that customers can choose to serve from different holdings of emphasis rather than to visualise three banks, all of which are registered to stock markets. Germany, one of Europe's most powerful economys, for example. on a bank system which is only partially via registered partner type. This needs to be discussed carefully.◯ Because the last thing I agree with. This should be discussed carefully. And that's our job. That conversation is about to begin here. How do we want to see the financial system? What's a community bank? What difference does it make to have a community bank? Should a bank be united, as mentioned? As a community, what are we going to profit from banks regularly rather than receive exchange payments through the market? And you can continue. In that discussion, we need not be afraid to go out of our way. We need not be afraid to go to that conversation with someone without preconceived ideas that the only thing in our lives is to decide which banks to sell and when. It's all below me. This may be one of the things I'm sorry about in the White Book, but I think it's some way too much of the language of the stakeholders on the market, some of which I feel I've had a shipwreck in the collapse. She doesn't really open her eyes enough for what we can do. We should not be afraid to do so. The bottom line, I don't know in advance. At least I'm not afraid to discuss anything in that matter, provided we're not finally at all on anything, just ◯ of it only,
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u98	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his speech and enthusiasm. You can identify specific ideals that are in line with what the left movement has proclaimed. Of course, it's not just a government party, I'm not going to tie myself to it, it's obvious that there are opinions not only within the governments but possibly other categories. I agree with what's been said. I think the White Book is a good foundation for us to keep going. I hope it will not be just some book of salvation for the Governments. We have to think about it a lot more broad, and we have to work this way. You're absolutely right. A senator said. The track's starting to scare. We must learn from experience. We must do everything within our power to do so, if and when we engage in a trade process, have built up a reliable process, credibility, so all the people understand the political affairs of the financial system. The fact that we're seeing changes, have a vision and a policy that contributes, in particular, to an SME's access to the same inexpensive capital as the big enterprises, which have long since left the country because they're making up for another currency. So I don't talk about the homes that pay three times in interest of what's going on and what happens in a foreign field. I welcome the tone that appeared on the left side of the offer, ◯ green, that they are ready to discuss the crown in this context, because it says in the white book.: A currency risks the European Economic Environment. The crown section cannot be overlooked. The first question I'd like to ask. A senator, after which I will bring more, agrees with what happened to him. paritaprevir Oir Óli Kárason in his speech, that the decrease in the bank tax will contribute to access, especially to SMEs, becoming more expensive capital, and will contribute to a better banking environment? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and sincere and open interest that I think of the future of the financial system. You're absolutely right. A senator that there are differing priorities, whether within the governments or not, one would be that the Independence Party and the left movement offer, the exact same policy as the future of the financial system. I'll just say, Mr. President. Everyone sees it doesn't happen one, two and three. However, where the government is going to go and what minimum goals there are. And then we all have this white book to discuss this common policy. I repeat it as a matter of course. And there came to pass a certain senator, that the plans should be put to fear. It's my main guide when this comes. Regarding the exact question why. The senator's decrease in bank tax is obvious that there are factors to consider. Not all agree on exactly what it returns. I quoted earlier in the review of Ásgeir Brauns Torfason's Brynjar from the financial council. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to quote it again. The reduction in taxes on a bank may not all be less interest. Rather, it only increases interest in owners. It must be reasonable to make sure that all the financial costs of the community have been recovered before it is decided to reduce any special government spell on the bank. This is something that we need to keep in mind when it comes to these matters, like so many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u100	Madam President. I appreciate that. It is obvious that there are differences in opinion about the bank tax as well as other factors. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of Parliament: Does he agree between the members of the administrations on what is involved in a community bank? There have been two groups of three special mention of community banks. Or is this perhaps an idea that will be further discussed - and should be discussed, of course - in the White Paper Work on the Economic and Business Committee? Does the senator think that the committee will succeed in explaining what is involved in a bank of society? Is it possible to have a solid object, as is said in the government covenant? I agree that we, at least for the moment, should act in a similar way in Norwegian, or even Swedish, where the State has a share in banks and landings. Is it a kind of community bank or is it? A senator and other members of the left - motion team, with another in mind, are they offering a green bid? This may be the first question. Then I'd also like to draw out and say, kind of, VG in this case that it must be done with caution as soon as we don't have time to sit down. We need to prove what it is that we really want with a change in the banking system. You can't hide that it wouldn't be good if it were just an advance party and an independent group who were in the privatizing of banks. I don't think that would contribute to confidence and credibility in that process. That's why I want to ask you why. Senator: Is it not preferable to go on the banks for sales while the left movement is green in the government? People smile here and say that I'm sure I must express a certain level of credibility. Yes, I do. The important thing is that there are different voices involved. We can't do this like last time. Then we'll have to look all the ways, and I'd like to have cross-cutting consultations and agreements about how we're doing it if and when we go to the trade process on the banks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. A senator felt that it would be as good as getting more classes into the trade process as just the forwarding party and the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u101	President. Hv. A senator asks if I believe that there is a harmony between the board of directors of a community bank, i.e. The definition. No, I don't think you could sneak up people on an elevator that would agree on what a community bank is. It is in some way a fashion word, much like a system change, which you can almost have translated whatever you want. One of the suits of the White Book knows that it says, "Science bank is a savings fund." And then it's just talking about savings, but unfortunately it's not deep enough, as shown in my case earlier, since it's not even a research report on the savings funds. There are various kinds of social banks. And when I say, "No, not necessarily in harmony with the parties, it doesn't apply to them. " I think we in this room understand community banks each in a different way. There's a flaw. We may need to wonder what a community bank is. Is it a ◯non-protttet caused by a knock? Sorry about the sleigh, Mr. Honorable President. Is it a bank that is, in part, not in the form of a registered partner like Germany? Hv. A senator named Norway. We're talking about the South House Savings Department? There's a point. The answer is that we're not talking about the South House Savings Fund. That was to be the point of my criticism. You can't just say, a social bank is the same as a savings fund. If I find that the process is more convenient with a VG inside the table, it's simply because most of the time I find it more convenient with a VG inside the table. I just want to say the word. A senator told me that it is very important for me to hear, as the variety of views is heard. But I did it after a while. A senator always spoke of a decision that will be given to bank sales at the end of the week. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That's right. A senator to me. But I think it is very important that, as the most diverse views are heard when making decisions about the future financial structure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u102	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss the financial system, a white book on a vision for the future. V.E.G. In a government covenant, the government gave up and confirmed that they would trust in the future social stability. The quality of life and the basis for it are economic strength. Economic strength is based on trust and money policy, as well as on intervening agreements. It is important that government policy and money policy work together to work together on a more stable economic environment, with equal balance, prices, and a stable currency. In this context, trust in financial systems is of great importance. In view of experience, it is normal to work to trust the financial system and the routine around it, as suggested in this work. In a government contract, the highest. Governments say that financial systems are supposed to be stable and to serve society in a reasonable and practical way. The State's holding on financial companies is one of the largest in Europe and wants the highest. Governments are seeking ways to reduce it. It is clear, however, that government funds will be leading investors in at least one systematicly important financial agency. Then it's just a matter of time. It is summed up in a government covenant, which simply means that a careful return to the earth is being accomplished. The Guide for Work on the White Book is this: to increase trust in an Icelandic financial market, to trust in transparency and financial stability. And while important improvements have been made in the legal environment of financial companies, better management is required. The possession of systematicly important financial institutions must be transparent, and this is the highest. A government is going to work toward further efficiency in the financial system, with the goal of reducing consumer costs. That's what's at the core of it. The government puts in place, and now we're standing here to discuss the report and the results of the assigned task force, and hopefully the plans will go well from here to now. It hangs with a steady economic plan, consistent with the conclusions we read in this fine book. I agree with them. Parliaments who have talked about professional aspects of the White Book and the basis for discussion and these support for safe, efficient and economic systems that are important to every community. The central role of such institutions is to enable homes and businesses to produce savings, speed up loans, and is the key to greater wealth and quality of life. At the same time, there is a risk of such activity. That's what we've been trying to do. Orders, monitoring, and healthy ownership must be followed in order to ensure effective systems and to increase safety. A respectable president. That's what I think everybody can agree with. For the possession, as discussed in this report and in the media coverage, there is a further need for further consideration of how the government will be handled on two of the three major banks, what form of property are appropriate in this regard. And it is important to separate property from property. However, as mentioned in the discussion, a survey by consumers, it is far from a mere joint or majority inspection. In view of this, it is almost easy to give an examination that the work group had Gallup do for the White Book work, about the public view of banking services. That's where even the two of them come from. to 61% is positive for the possession of the state. It also shows the lack of trust in Icelandic banks. In the context of improvement, people include high growth, expensive services, greed, and high wages, and the fact that the faith in the system has not come back since collapse. This is important to keep in mind when we take up the discussion. I think it's important to do that. The EEA and Business Committee has these factors in mind, and the discussion here today that I find very well mirrored, and then deepens what is missing in this fine report, which provides the basis for the discussion. The report certainly does, she's a good entry. The goal of work is to create this vision, it is included in that discussion. Of course, when it comes to property, you miss the fact that there is no detailed decision but only to partners and the purpose and policy of such financial companies. I feel that this is very clear in the discussion, e.g. about what is called a community bank. It is absolutely true that a community bank can translate things. In any case, it is a principal policy for which society can be happy, that is, in the word. But it will never be more than what we define. However, I feel it is necessary to discuss this subject. In this report, I miss the evidence with and against it, the prowess and defects of it, and the social sacrifices that are obviously involved in binding as much money into financial systems as it really is at the same time as we ask ourselves if it is absolutely necessary, in terms of the circumstances we are living in today, which are different for ten years when it comes to order, that the state of this money is binding in the system at the expense of using it into social infrastructure, reducing debt, or building up the systems we believe the state should do, and there is enough to take it. One might wonder, " Is it possible to turn the bank of the bank of a community into a German role model? ' Then we have already defined what a community bank is. German savings have confidence. About 40% of the budget of the financial system there is savings. They work for the closer environment and have their policy in caring for individual and business practices on social grounds. This is done in very precise regulations, i.e. This does not mean that financial services are being subsidized or that growth is being subsidized. That would never be permitted. This, however, involves making a certain amount of money for ourselves. It is made up of a social fund that goes to social projects. In a speech or two. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Proppér of Dietus, was critical of Ásgeir, the Brynjar of Brastrur, the son of Torfason, facing this point. It is the discussion of the wide variety of property. I agree with the speakers that they could have been added to the discussion further in the report. A few of them. Public speakers have complained that time is fast. I think it is right to bring it up here in the final words of this report, that there is good reason to take the initiative to minimize the risks and reduce the cost of the state's holdings without risking the aims of stability and solid wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u103	Madam President. This is an interesting lecture that we receive here, good talks, I think, as members of all classes of Congress. That's the harmony, that's what I hear, for most of them. I would like to commend the government for having built a good foundation for us to discuss this enormously important matter, continue with it. I hope that all the factors that have been implemented will be considered very well. I agree with that. A senator, after his fine speech, is that within two, three, or four years we build a trustworthy trade process. I don't think the state is supposed to be in a huge bank operation at 330 billion. As soon as I say so, I agree that the government should be insinuated in one bank. I think we have to learn that, and we need to take a good look at what it means exactly to have a community bank. It reminds me that at one time, ten years ago, the banks of Germany needed help. Whose is it owned by the community banks? It'd be nice to be diagnosed. I believe in the work of the Commission on the Economic and Business Committee will include going over it because a good mind is involved, because in the end we need to know how a system we're going to create; a system that is primarily responsible for the domestics and the small companies and the general commercial worlds in the country, to offer low interest levels. Once again, I want to make it clear that we cannot offer practical solutions and lead until we change the currency. It is not to be discussed. It may be discussed on a committee. That's a big part of the picture. I'm not gonna get into that argument here. It's good to sit here and listen to each other's man, from different categories, express ambitions in building banking systems and discussing specific missions and masquerade stones that we can agree on. [[The president calls.]] I'm still saying that all this funding for 330 billion has a better place in other areas to build up the wood we need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We face the tremendous task of building them together. [[The president calls.]] That's not what I'm saying, we're supposed to take all the parts of the state out of the banking system, not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for her speculations. I'm going to agree specifically with what she said about the harmony. I think that points out how good the report is to start the discussion. I'd like to encourage some guys, too. Economic and business committees, like what? A senator came in to expand this discussion on the possession of the state of the second bank. This is shown in the government contract. Governments are proposed to share in the second bank. The track's starting to scare. It can be said that the privatization of the collapse, when the system went down, has actually failed. But the sales frame is very different today, and it is under way in the report. In fact, it has changed completely since the last sale of the banks. That's why I think we should be able to make that process more productive and selective, and it's important that we clear our approach to it. I'd also like to state that this has to be considered in the context of the huge financial resources we're tying into the system and that we're treating them well. They're in public service. There is a high degree of physical development, transport, education, health systems, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u105	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. I could say, after listening to the council talks and, in part, the delegates, that there was a lot of baloney conflict between the parties. We know that. We will not get anything out of trying to fan the issue because, in my opinion, we are putting it into a materialistic way, which also calls for a challenge to the opposition to government when it is time to do so. This is a challenge to all of us, to stand awake. Whether we have certain opinions about social banks and the sale of banks or not, we need to keep a proper guard in this regard. I agree with what. A senator who will surely be honored one day, that it is absolutely true that the rules of the banking system have changed completely. It is much better, safer, and stronger than it was at the time when the personalization was started. We also need to ask ourselves the political question: What is the most valuable value? Where to invest? Could it be that some of the money we have in the banking system as a government and nation is better spent building up elsewhere? Then we must be careful to cash it with financial resources, be careful with the most solidarity and cooperation. It depends very much on how the work in the Economic and Business Committee is conducted, but also on the state's tone of voice in this case. I'd like to underscore that I'm proficient in increasing freedom and liberality as far as the wide range, but we also have, as we've talked about today, to learn from experience. Freedom With responsibilities - if we take steps toward freedom, including Within the financial system, it will be freedom to have a responsibility, and this time, with some privacy, not without exception as it was at the time. This is the challenge facing the Council, the huge challenge to the next issue, to try to work best on the fine foundation of the White Book, which is here to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for the counterweight and agrees that we are facing a great challenge. I respect that. A senator does not wear the bullet holes or in the gear to talk about nonsense. Of course, things can be arranged in a variety of ways, but I don't think there's any difference. I think there's a very serious discussion here, critical discussion, which is absolutely necessary. If we look at the financial value, 339 billion is the property of 2017, and possibly something more as a result of a trade process - we don't know, of course -- I think that the cost of sacrifice, as assessed by the sacrifice of reducing debt, reducing taxes, curses on people and businesses, building roads, strengthening the school system, the health system, the nursing home, is much higher. So it is important that we consider these things in all contexts and in a critical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u107	V.E.G. President. Here is a white book on the financial system in Iceland. And what is it about? It's about building trust, credibility, and a good financial system. It's a good foundation for us to use here for discussion. Today, in the United States, three quarters of the entire financial system are under way. The evidence in the White Book is that this possession is far too much. This is way too big a ratio. And what is the basis for that? What are the reasons why we sell most of our property in banks? The book has several views. It is primarily referred to competitiveness. I think we can all agree that if one person, other than the state, had three-quarters of the banking system and the financial system, we'd have raised our hind legs and we thought it was a violation of all competitive rules and totally inappropriate that one person should do this. It's not like the government wanted this. Of course, this happened, and it was necessary after the collapse, and then we get another bank in the settlement at the ready. It is only natural that we release this property to create a healthy, competitive environment for a financial enterprise. It's absolutely necessary. The U.S. Governing Body itself has published a report on this matter, making it necessary for the State to sell his share even if it doesn't have to sell it all. This could be a picture, as suggested in the book, to be insinuated in the second bank, to form a third or so in the bank of about 3% of the gross domestic product. Now, however, we're bound with about 17% of the state's property in banks. It is also the viewpoint regarding competition that there is much movement and predictable innovation and changes in financial and financial markets. It is clear to everyone that, as it always is, government is not very likely to be involved in a novelty or a follow - up or to have such drive that is needed for such competition. So the risk is quite high for the United States of England to have such a big share. This risk is high because it is so much of the government's property. If there were a situation where there would be another bank crisis, whether it would fall in the sense that was ten years ago, or just a major setback or a relapse, it is clear that there are taxpayers who pay much to do that damage. But I do understand that we are a little burned after the collapse of the bank, naturally we are burned, but that doesn't make the risk of relapse much more for the State if it has all the financial system than it is spread on a number of parties, private people. It's all about the fact that this place is a healthy possession. The way a man visualizes the matter is discussed in the White Book. In this context, you must consider that there are all other rules that apply today but to the sales of the old state banks of their time, which, of course, were only government agencies, they were not even communities. There are now other rules and detailed rules about who can own banks and how to handle them. Therefore, concern should at least be given. not to be the same as was at that sale. In this white book, people in general have very little confidence in the financial system. There is great distrust, though the State has three fourths of the whole system. But the same survey shows that there are about 60% positive that the state continues this, as unreasonable as I think it is. There's a lot of work to convince the public where our interests are in this case so that we get a real healthy, varied, reliable banking system where the risk is spread, where there are people who know how to act and who are different from others so that it doesn't seem to be the same risk for everyone if there's any kind of setback. This is what I think is important. I think most people are pretty positive for some sort of sale, at least In another word, but then in the other, people find all the things to avoid selling the part of the kingdom, calling it a golden goose, and we hand it over to rich people, and all of a sudden they don't care because it's the State's. There's talk out a little bit, and south as far as I'm concerned. I have, for example. I'm not properly aware if the deputies of Pirata and the United States of America are over their heads ready to sell the item. Some talk about selling some of them over the next 40 years. We just have to evaluate the situation at any given time. Nobody's talking about doing anything with class or acting, just being careful. Although Iceland's Bank was e.g. Selling one piece doesn't mean painting money, if it's done very well, so that it's a natural holding that's taking over the bank. Finally, I just want to mention this discussion about a community bank that I, like many others, cannot really understand. One thing I can assure you is that some kind of bank in the state-owned pursuit of this service in the name of a community bank does not match Iceland's competitive law, so it will never be done. Of course, there is no basis, then, for some societies and individuals to establish some kind of community bank with social goals. There is no basis, but I am not sure that the State should take up such service. All of this is about good, reliable, and wholesome financial systems. What we should use this book is to review how we can do this best, instead of being suspicious of everything when it comes to selling the property of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u108	A respectable president. I, like many other senators, am going to thank you very much for this discussion. I am very pleased with the way this is done, that we receive a white book, a detailed and good report, from experts on the position on this market, a summary of the experiences we have, and a certain light is then cast upon the vision of the future in which we are assigned here. The book discusses various factors to form partners with financial institutions about certain structures, which I believe are one of the factors we need to do well and may be important. The work of the stock market is being dealt with, which is certainly a major concern, and I think we need to look for all ways to enable and strengthen our trust in the Icelandic stock market. The interest rates and interest rates are discussed and entered the bank tax, which has been talked about here today. I would like to express my opinion that, of course, it is normal for banks to pay taxes, such as all other companies and banks do not have merit tax returns. But what is being noted in this report is that banks in Iceland pay considerably more taxes than financial companies elsewhere. Surely, then, we need to look at ourselves for a little bit and reflect on the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies. It is natural to point out that not all who sit at the same table, since the pension fund lends a considerable amount of money but does not pay the same taxes that the banks do, since there are few who go to the bank today, to make up about loans to buy an apartment house. What may have been most discussed, both here and in the public, after the release of this book, is the share of the State in banking. I must allow me to interpret those who have spoken here, at any rate, in that we do not agree that our future in this country cannot be so that the State is the principal financial operator. It may be, and many have spoken of, that the state should somehow come to the business of one bank. I do not believe that the State is in general running market jobs and competitive jobs, but I shall not allow the situation to be in a way that makes it wise for the State to have a share for at least another time. During this discussion, I feel that something important is important that we do not panic in some form of station. I don't think parking's the best thing. I see few figures in general that the state should be the largest person in the financial market. And where do we see, as well as the report, that the state is known to be as prominent in financial management as in Iceland? These are the countries we would rather not compare ourselves with, not at all. And the Western countries that we join with, there are not so known for their rich estates. I think the conclusion must always be, in our view of the future, that we need to move out of our position today. I'm glad that there's a great deal of agreement that we should be careful in this work, I agree with that. In fact, I think we've already done that, to form with this report. I'm kind of going to let me say that we've been working on it for the last few years. I don't think it was a long-term goal that the state would run a bank here. As mentioned in the discussion, it has been proposed by the former governments to loosen the ownership of banks, and I think there must be no general vision that the situation will be just the way it is today. That's why I want to reiterate that we can't talk on it and frighten us in some way that quietness is the best solution, because it's not. We have to look to the future and how we want the financial environment to be here. For my part, I don't think it can be as it is today with the state as one of the main operators. But then we may find out what a great deal has been discussed here, i.e. Some kind of community bank. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé also answered that it was true that it was a form of fashion, and no doubt we would agree on exactly what is in that word, a community bank. I'm going to say the word. A senator who spoke before me, Brassier Níelsson, that if people are really wondering if there is something to be called a community bank and a bank owned by the state, there is nothing that can resist the environment we live in today. But if any people are interested in getting into such a business, I think it's a good thing. I'm sitting on my own. A financial and business committee, a respectable president, and I think we're going to go over them well on the Committee what people see when people discuss this, a community bank. But I would like to come because I believe that, in fact, I want all my companies to be socially responsible and to have the vision of the future that companies working on the market and wanting to stay until the long term have to be socialistic, need to consider the world goals of the United Nations. It may well be that it is one of our greatest goals in making such plans for our systems, either by our motivation or by some kind of legislation, that an enterprise generally develops the thinking of social responsibility, which is to make up the global objectives of the United Nations. That's what I'm saying, I agree with what's happened here. When it comes to selling the banks, we need to be careful. If there is no agreement that we should sell the banks, I think we must at least agree on selling banks, and, of course, we need to be careful about that. We've been talking about golden goose, like the banks are some sort of golden goose to us. It is true that the banks have paid considerable pay on their last year to the State, and we also took them into our arms, and when it fell, everyone was hurt. It is good to think, though, that in recent years we have received something back. But as has been observed many times, and I think it's quite clear that you can't look to such resentment as the next year's fast. And if that were really the way it must be done with the bank prices when thinking of selling. So my opinion is that, a respectable president, when it comes to financial management, the role of the State is primarily to promote strong, orderly works and to monitor that order is being followed. Then we can ask ourselves: " Is our order being good enough? We've mainly adopted the directives and laws that we're dealing with in the European Union and we're completing that journey. I won't predict a new crash, and I really hope it won't be, but if it did, it would definitely not be exactly the same as the last crash was. I'm just saying that as a lawgiver, we always need to keep an eye on how the work is best handled. In a changing world, we need to consider changing things as well as everything else. And of course, as we learned so clearly from the last collapse, the surveillance will have to follow up on that. It's our primary part here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u109	Mr. President. We're discussing the White Book here, i.e. A report on the future view of the Icelandic financial system. Here, many members have introduced the most diverse issues, although many have been told about a similar factor, but what may be involved in this discussion is that there is considerable agreement that there is a basis for following in the activities ahead of us in the financial system and that the report is a good foundation under which a good work has been done. Many senators are aware of this as a result of having been interviewed by the head of the press as to what their vision was on the project, and I think that in that respect the work was really good. I would like to discuss a few things that may not have been much inconsistencies during the discussion today, rather than in detail that everyone else has said. The report discusses some of the risks of banks that are business banks as well as investment banks. A review of how unfortunate this has been in the leading of the crash and even that it had some role in the collapse and at least A big part of how hard the landing went. The social security of the bank itself had become so great or had become so high - risk ratios, including the U.S. Because of investment banking, the result was as bad as it went. Reports do not suggest that we separate between investment banking and personal banks or business banking, but they suggest what they call a defensive idea. This line of defense is located between 10 to15% of the share of investment banking activity by the overall work of the financial organisation. I would have wanted to see some suggestions for going even beyond this, i.e. Either that the defense line was even lower or that the authors just suggested the lower line of defense or that they simply said that it had to be seriously examined to separate the two entirely. I would have at least Even if it makes sense, it will be one of the speculations that we take into consideration. The Economic and Business Committee, when we discuss the report there. The report speaks of self-finishment rates, and I feel that in some part, it is suggested that the amount of money in the budget is high. It is rightly pointed out that the price of having a very high self - worth could be reduced to the bank's interest. Money, in the same way as loans or other money that the bank handles, does not have the same interest as that can be, and cannot provide the same basis for interest to owners. But it can also be said: This is actually the price we pay for more security in banking. We do not want the banks to have a thin self - payment, as they had before a collapse, and we do not want them to be able to handle any tragedy. That's why the amount of money is much higher. I count at least that, for now, we have not reached the point where we can let down much of that material. The report speaks a great deal of technical solutions and how technical solutions will develop in the banking system. I think it's very important. But I think it is also important that these technical solutions are taken into the services of banks, when banks, as it were, put their solutions into business with the banks. It will not only cause the increase in interest and the increase in the interest of banks in all respects, it will also affect the users. The same is really true of economic solutions, branch closure, etc. A few of them. Today, members of Congress have established that they miss not seeing the banks bring more benefit from these changes to their customers. It is difficult to get away from this discussion different from discussing the ownership of the banks, as it may be said that this discussion was one of the highest ones and has been talking about the most about it today and, in fact, the past few weeks. Congress officials have established that we have written into the government's cooperative covenant that the government is going to reduce the property of the state on banks. But I completely agree with what has happened to so many senators today, both in government and in government, that we must be careful there. We have to make sure that the rules are clear and that banks are not being sold just to sell them, but because they matter what they do. I personally believe that it is very important for the state to have one bank. I think the experiences of the past few years will show it to us. It is not wise for the state to give up, at least not to a substantial extent, the share of property in both banks. I agree with what was presented in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance before we're supposed to be Iceland Bank that we'd start with, thinking that we should go that way without having some separation in advance that we'll sell the next bank. Take one step at a time without any commitments ahead. Let us not forget, too, that the state has a dominant share in one bank during this time of change and perhaps into the next year, it may well come to realize that the state can have a premise for it, the State Bank, that the technical solutions to form or the tax depletion actually come to its users. If the bank to which the State is taking its lead sets a good example in bringing this benefit to the customers, no one needs to tell me that the other banks are not following. I think it's totally morning light. Mr. President. I look forward to discussing this report more closely at the moment. Economic and Business Committee, including This fine idea of a central debt base that I could not discuss in my speech today, but I look forward to having further debates about it. The members of the Economic and Business Committee at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u110	A respectable president. We're discussing the white book of the financial system. According to a poll carried out by Gallup for the White Book staff, the majority of Icelanders are positive for the possession of the state on banks. There's only 14% in favor of sale. The White Book says that the public's trust in the financial system is far away. Taking into account surveys carried out by group members in connection with the work of the White Book, the collapse of the financial system is still high in the minds of people and reflects their attitude toward the banks. Business banking and investment activities need to be fully separated. We need to realize that the state has 100% in Iceland and 98% in the Bank of Lands. There's a lot of value in those banks. Their combined money is about $450 billion. The White Book is kind of disappointing from A to Z. It's basically whitewashed or scratched. You might think it was put in a scratch to get this white color on it. They need to take out insurance, yodel, and they'll be dealt with for the benefit of consumers, and they'll look at all the general ideas of community banks. We need, and the nation demands a community bank. That tells us completely because there are only 14% who want to sell it. Once again, financial interests are to be put ahead of domestic interests. It also highlights the relative content of the banks, but what about the financial system and what about, for example, the situation. A pension fund, insurance companies, their interaction like they used to be here in banks? Doesn't seem to be a problem. Most of the population trusts the State as the owner of banks, but mistrust and corruption were created after the sale on banks last time. Thus the bank's bank property will never be sold to eliminate the risks of banks where they store locals. Icelanders are at the top of electronic and technology. How unfathomable it is, then, that one of the largest banks, the Lands Bank owned by the State, is considering building headquarters in one of the most expensive centers in the city of Reykjavík! And judging from all of this, building that building will cost tens of billions, just as technology brings forth it. I say in my opinion that, based on government construction costs, it'll be better off than that, it'll be good for another dozen billion that's going to be destroyed at headquarters and down here in downtown the most expensive box. I think that money would be far better spent on other things. I'm sure they're needed. We must also remember that during the past five years, the banks have made money over 200 billion. I am, in effect, still in myself, and probably a large part of the nation, having a bad taste for the collapse of the bank. I think we need to take some time. We have to watch our backs. We have to be careful. And we are to listen carefully to the majority of the people. More than 60% of the world wants the banks to go on. And as we have seen before, 14% wants to sell. In view of this, we should just give ourselves a little bit of time. We're in no hurry. The banks aren't going anywhere. What's been done before is scared. That should be enough for us to stumble and think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u111	Mr. President. I appreciate your discussion on this important subject. I'm going to go back to the place where my speech was turned off, couldn't get it finished in the first round, so I was just talking about the Bank of Lands. I'm of the opinion that at the sale of the Lands Bank, when it comes to making these paces, at least In part, if the bank is sold, I think it's very important that more than 30% be owned by the state, so we can at least have a negative power. I also think we should take advantage of this opportunity when this comes and rebuild the savings system. The savings funds have had a very positive effect on society over the years, and much regret is there for them from this market. We know what happened to them, and there is great regret. Today, a few savings are employed and small in formats, but do good things in their area. As we know, the aims of the savings funds were when they were started to contribute to the growth of public savings and to economic progress, access to capital and social projects. At first, the work was simple, and they focused mainly on small depositors and small loans to individuals and smaller companies, but they took care of bigger customers. By then, such loans were usually used with caution. To me, it is important that we be examined as far as the Lands Bank is concerned with rebuilding the savings system. Next, I would like to consider what is stated on page 24. In the White Book, 169, the cost is discussed. There is a requirement for high self - esteem that can lead to more expensive financial services. Here I think authors are trying to suggest a little bit of the need to lower the requirement of self-finance and perhaps it's true, but from the source of experience, I think we have to be very careful there. It is certainly a question of how wise it is to leave large amounts of money in the banks. This has been discussed in this discussion. ... pastthewrong. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. There are large amounts of money that are locked in and that are of no benefit, so to speak, money that could be used for the various community projects. But if the amount of money is to be relaxed, it must be guaranteed by order order so that there will be no temptation, i.e. that one cannot take advantage of the situation in which to marry, so to speak. I think it is important to try to get an international bank in this country and to have a rule opening so that circumstances for European banks are available to work here, if they can and can do so. On page 18. 179 and further reviews on consumer protection in financial markets, showing that the establishments are complex and necessary to set total laws on consumer protection. I'll take my mind off this. This is very important, and it is important to strengthen the consumers and the SEC and consumer protection especially on legal costs. Sadly, when people decide to sue the banks or at least have to seek their right to the banks, when individuals get involved in that situation, it is all too common for banks to turn around. It is simply a fact that it is far too expensive for individuals to make such a move, so change must be made. In this connection, I'd like to end up with only a planned union between the FDA and the Secret Bank. The white book has little to say about this. As we know then, the Swedish lender is a lender and a publisher of all state paper, and then it's the SEC that monitors everything that is published. This does not agree with my judgment, that the same person is a publisher, and then he supervises the publication. The role of these institutions may be unique, but they are different, and I would have wanted to see that this would have been discussed in the White Book. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I thank you, President, fine discussion, and thank you very much. Secretary of the budget, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-29-58.u112	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I would like to let it be noted that we have chosen this way to prepare objectively for the future of the financial system in Iceland, to have a special report for the council that has this name, the White Book. I'd like to start by saying that although this is not an isolated case, I usually have the ability to open up the discussion and lay a good basis for communication, based on a summary of data, and even a list of evidence and a list of some legal development, but views on the options established by the government. I feel that when we've gone that way, it's usually done well. I think it also applies this time, that it has been very helpful for us to get a discussion about the future of the financial system in a better way to get a good group of people with good perspective and knowledge of the financial markets to do this work. I would like to thank the publishers of the book, the people who worked in this group. Under these conditions is an extremely important community project; to continue working with this position, to discuss the need for changes in order to reduce both the risks of the State, but then the consumer views are also made very strong in this white book. It's taken in for this classic conversation that has been very popular during the discussion today, such as growth differences in Iceland and comparison with other countries. We have clear examples that governments have the responsibility to take action that is designed to reduce the growth difference. We must accept such indications with joy and great seriousness and put them into practice. Then we are given a deep discussion of many other matters of opinion. The preceding talk specifically mentioned the point of consumers. I agree with the importance of that chapter. However, the importance of trust in holding, the effectiveness of stock markets, the torn potential to reduce the possession of the State, and to provide some strong perspective on the importance of thinking into the future, and the time needed to prepare as much time - consuming measures or time - consuming programs and plans for selling the State's holdings. This report contains a number of other factors that are relevant for the discussion, such as. what I talked about earlier today and about the barrier between investment banking and business banking. It has been my experience during this decade since the sentence of the emergency law, in which we were in absolute distress in the position that no choice was made other than that a government fund would enter the Bank of America as a new owner and reinvigorate it, that there have occasionally been a brief discussion of the future. It has usually impacted on some of the points considered in this report for a deeper discussion. In this respect, I feel that we have a report that will help us to develop the discussion further and then make decisions about the next steps and future, based on this report, based on the suggestions found there, and on the discussion presented here at the council and the comments we receive. What I hear here at the Senate Hall today is no surprise. The report repeatedly shows that there is little confidence in the banking system, the entire financial system. This will be a good time to have clear suggestions on areas likely to build trust. It's only been taking over, but it's completely inadequate. Second, you hear the general lack of confidence in a personal development process and the requirement for transparency, caution, and long - term guidance. I think it's easy to get along with this in itself. It is also easy to get into a fight and to do things suspiciously if a person especially wants to go along. I also hear differences in the scope of state ownership into the future. Nor do I think that should be a special concern or problem for us to follow the suggestions found in the report, regardless of the longer term state ownership of the Bank of America. And for him, I've often described my view of the press and anywhere, for a long time I can see that we should set up a solid share in the bank of the United States. But no effort is needed on the part of the future financial markets in Iceland while we have enough money to eat. At the end of this discussion, at the end of this discussion, I am quite optimistic that we can continue with the suggestions that should be relative to the situation of consumers, how we can strengthen the position of consumers, so that people can have a strong and good feeling that they know where to look when they feel they have a right to deal with financial companies. We have an example of the fact that this report does not seem to be the case today. We also follow other indications that are expected to increase the effectiveness of the banking system, which is to improve the interest of households and businesses, and that we will continue to understand the subject of investment banking and business services. In fact, we are underlining views from the previous committee that there are good ways to draw a certain line of defense and put it, you might say, roof, the extent of such activity when it deals with business banks. As for all of these, I hope that we can achieve a broad solid solidarity at the council. My solution, as well as other members of the government, must be discussed in more detail, possibly following proposals from the Bank Office, what steps would be considered regarding the emissions programme. In this regard, I just want to reiterate what I've said earlier today. I don't think it's possible to have two banks for sale at a time. We have enough money to work on e.g. Tests for possibilities and market conditions, including the release of government property on the second bank. If we can agree on that, differences of opinion regarding the Bank of Lands and its long - term ownership should not be a barrier to our success. And in that respect, I feel, at the end of this discussion, a reason to be quite optimistic about the process of sowing, that with this white book, with this report, we have made a deeper, well - thought - out discussion of these key elements. I'm assuming we'll then have a discussion from the Economic and Business Committee, and we'll look at the reports received and interact with the council at every step of the process. [[The president calls.]]
