ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. Witchest. "The Guðjón of the Son of Brjánsson Brunns, "that he will soon be absent in public affairs. A letter has then been received from a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Booths that the rest of Ingi Pétursson, the 1st Apostle in the Northeast. "have proclaimed pasturage, and therefore will be replaced by a council as guardian to the daughter of Þórunn Egilsdóttir. So today, on Monday, May 6th, we are taking our place at the General Assembly, who was a deputy of the 1st United States Group of Norway. " Arna Lára Jónsdóttir, and 2nd Specialist of the Church's Future in Northeast. "The Bogi of Hafliðason. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u2	The president wants to announce that at a meeting of the budget committee earlier today, on May 6, 2019, Inga Sæland, was elected second vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u3	The President would like to announce the change in the work programme agreed by the Commission that the Wednesday, May 8, will be turned into a committee date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u4	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-need counsellors to provide written answers to queries: From a foreign minister for the requested application. 1281, for the protection of interest in the export of Britain from the European Union, from the Trausti Friert Friðbertsson; from the Minister of Justice for the Sspice. 1147, of the buyers of the highest stocks of the apartment loans, of Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson; and finally from the social and child-registry for the inquiry of the inquiries. 1034 of the subscriptions for newspapers, magazines, and other media, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson; on the icicle. 1089, on committees, staff, professional groups and Ministry council, from Inga Sæland; on deck. 1002 on the responsibility of protecting children from harassment, from Jón Þór Ólafsson; on deck. 967, for suggestions on changing arrangements to nursing homes, from Konráðsdóttir Brá Cons Councildóttir; and at last for an inquiry. 1289, about the release of the tax agent, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u5	To answer these questions, Ministers of Transport and Foreign Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Organic Ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u6	President. I want to direct you to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the income of a prisoner and the income of a prison agency from their work. In answer to the highest. Minister of Justice to the inquiry of Eymarsdóttir Oymarsdóttir, why. The district council of Pirata, a 148th legislature of work time, income, and the implementation of prisoners, discusses the average income of prisoners in Icelandic prisons. It shows that the average income of prisoners per month for work is about 20,000 dollars. ... in LittleHare and in Hólmshön, but not half a thousand in Sugni, Chevíbóggku, and Akureyri. In accordance with the Regulation on the terms of pay for work and study and money for prisoners, 415 cents are entitled to pay for their jobs. every hour. On the other hand, if you don't get a job, you get a daily amount of 630 bucks. daily. Recently, the minister answered another inquiry from the above. Pirata's deputy on what the income and expenditures of a prison agency were due to the work of a bailiff. Information from a prison facility does not directly dissipate on the work of a prison prisoner. Many factors would not be defined. Thus, the pay of prisoners would be part of the total success of prisons and would be secondary costs of total cost. No annual bill has been published for the Prison Department since 2016, but the budget of 2019 is estimated to be 132.6 billion. K. Business income for the Prison Department. I find it obvious, Mr. President, in view of the amount of income involved, that there must be some overview over which part of the income comes from a prisoner's work, even though there is no overview of the cost of it. In short, we do not know how much money a prison agency earns from a prisoner's work or how much money it costs because of the work of a prisoner. I'm asking the highest. Minister if this information was not normal. And second, whether it is not necessary to make a prisoner's income on account of their work is in any way consistent with the income of a prison facility, including the Icelandic state, which is responsible for their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's been a while since that answer came here for the council, and I inquired about things that might only overlap. A senator asks around here. As it turns out, this answer is based on information from the Prison Department. I can say with what. A senator, or I'll take it at least to look into it further if it can't be better handled and with at least with some sort of overview, despite the fact that it is not divided at the moment. Hv. A senator asks why no further information can be published and what it takes to publish at least More information is being done. I'll tell you right here, I'll go right back to getting some more answers to why it's not, and what needs to be done to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I'd like to follow a little bit more closely after my second question regarding the pay taken by prisoners. I asked if the highest. A minister would not have normal or necessary a prisoner's income for his work to be in any way consistent with the income obtained by a prison agency and thus by the Icelandic State for their work. The reason I ask is the natural fact that the Regulation states that for all the work of a prisoner, 415 will be paid. every hour. It is independent of performance, and it is no matter how much money a prison facility can earn from that work. I wondered - when prisoners experience that they have a salary whatever their performance is and regardless of what income they earn in prison - what kind of reform policy we run. We tell them that no matter how well they do, they get paid under the teenage school schools for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u9	Mr. President. I'll let me direct it to what it's about. The senator, urging her to send a query. At any rate, I would be very careful about it if I had a written request with this information, where I could dig deeper into it and also only worry about the context of all of this. Of course, it is important if we consider that as many prisoners have something to do with it, but part of the context is what they get for it, as well as what others get for a similar job and similar work. But in order to answer it this way, I'm going to allow myself to be motivated. A senator to direct a written inquiry to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u10	A respectable president. The news reports last month show that 1,000 people are still on the waiting list for orthopaedic surgery. When people have been waiting for orthopaedic surgery for three months, they should ring the alarm. Once people have been on the waiting list for six months, things are starting to be bad. Once you've been on a waiting list for nine months, 90% are likely to never go back to work. If people stay on a waiting list for a year and swallow thousands of aspirins, it is a serious matter. Then they're making drug addicts. I'm not saying anything because I know it from my own experience. It's scary when you get to 20 tablets a day and take pills for the side effects of tablets. There's something wrong with a system like this. We are at the same time trying to rehabilitate and create consultation groups for the rehabilitation of disability. But the State is producing drug addicts. The government is producing micro-employers, adults who complain that they will not be treated with surgery, replacements, eyestones, any type of action they are on the waiting list. That's a serious matter. Is there follow-up for three months, six months, two years, three years? Is there a priority? Is there an urgent need for action being observed? How many people lose their jobs and fall out of a job market because they don't get in time the procedures they need? There are no files on that? Doesn't it look good?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Last year, a three - year assignment was completed under the title "A Waiting List campaign. " I requested the surgeon's office to determine the success of the three years so that we can respond properly, i.e. Find out where the bottlenecks in the system are if they're anywhere. However, significant improvements have been observed in both hip replacement and knee replacement. For the campaign, 480 hip replacements were performed each year, but during the final year of the campaign, this number was up to 750 operations. For knee replacements, we were talking about over 300 a year, which went up to about 700 operations a year. The result, then, is considerable. We make it a goal that nobody has to wait more than 90 days. We set that goal in a five - year financial program. Before the campaign began, 20% waited for three months or less for a new hip. Now you wait for 35% for three months or less. For the knee it was 12% but now 30%. It's getting a lot of results. However, the number of waiting lists is a big concern. Clearly, there must be a better grip on a waiting list, so we have a complete view of how many are there, how long they've had to wait, and why they've had to wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But she did not answer the question: Is the use of drugs, the condition, the working people? In that article, a minister himself says that he must see to it that those who have the greatest need for an operation go back in line. You're not doing anything about it? It is a serious matter when people wait for so long, although the ratio has come from 20% to 35% for those waiting for a shorter period of time. But the people are getting old. We're getting old. Are we following our tails? It tells itself that we must be clear that the state will not harm people by injecting them, making sure that they get these actions so that they can continue working. That must be a priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u13	A respectable president. Of course, certain methods are used to identify who are in the greatest need and who can rather wait. One thing you see is that people can work hard, that they can do what they do every day. Actions are also of great importance. Because of what? A senator asks if there is really nothing being observed, as it is indeed being done. That's even. what I wanted the surgeon general's office to explain the results we have obtained. When I review the results, I'm primarily talking about measurable things that are waiting for, how many are waiting, etc. They factor as a good thing. A senator speaks of a situation that is unacceptable, having to have a very severe, intense pain and strong pain medication for many months, including what is considered. I expect a record from the surgeon's office in the middle of the month.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u14	V.E.G. President. In recent news, fish evaporation has been prominent. It shows how fully monitoring technology has become and is effective. All agree that a fish dropout is not meant to occur, but the catch is that it is not always permitted to go along in the fishing business. Knowing many structures and many sailors, I know that no one wants to throw fish in the sea will see the benefits of landing the fish and its resources. The national relationship between small boat owners was requested to include gray - eyed wasters, who have, for example, such as GDP. receive resources, be allowed to record the nets temporarily without counting the days of the gray-free pass. It was refused. The power of VS, often known as Oceanus, is the authority to develop to countries at 5% of the year's non-fishing resources. 80% of the resources would go to the state fund and 20% to the particular one. If the warrant were e.g. an increase of 10% would immediately remember half of this warrant, and that would be my problem. I'd like to ask the highest. A sea - out minister who has taken a look at this matter and has a solution to it so as to see his advantage in bringing back all the fish that comes into a fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u15	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Yes, I've had this discussion, and it comes up on a regular basis. I'd like to be the first to remind you of the work being done, but there's a job that has to do with revising all the fishing in the country. On the basis of the report made by the People's Accounting, the council was granted, following the request. Harðardóttir I started a mission, and the first steps have been taken. It is not easy to deal with this, but the law is relatively direct, and while it is not changed or rules, it is simply a matter of obeying the instructions given there. I'm just saying, it's impossible in some circumstances to follow the letter exactly. I know it myself from the past. This is a project that we have to work together somehow. It's not easy. It is absolutely impossible to assess the overall extent of the event. Hv. A senator mentioned the past gray cover. Throughout history, it has been said that it is a process, and you have heard almost ridiculous numbers in it. Most people think that a relapse on a gray patch is a significant one. In some way, we may need to look for ways to handle these problems. At the very least, the stories I have come to my ears are that, in fact, it's not a paradox to let it be blunt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u16	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer and correct what I mentioned in the talk earlier, if you could look for an increase in the VS Quantum percent. I'd also like to follow that question by asking the minister about what I see as a evaporation in many cases, which is a drawback in a fishing system. Now, without hooks, especially on lines and handles, the reins should be cut so that all nerds enter the sea. Nothing should be brought to land, and even the dead door is thrown away. He says that there is a lot of survival for the Agency to want this to happen, but seaman's fishing studies tell me that a lot more is killed than men realize. Would it not be proper to allow the complete amount of hatching to land so that we could see an overview of the real survival of the hatching? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u17	A respectable president. I requested that Merition Research Institute be accepted as the rules set for the lubricants. I think it was totally undisputed and unmistakably needed to set the rules. But I hear from the seamen as well as from the rest of the article that there is reason to believe that the hatching stock is getting much stronger. That is why I asked to get an opinion from the Oceanographic Institute to see if there was any reason to change the order set. We have not decided to do so. However, it is quite obvious that tomorrow's plans for such activities lead to an increased catch in the land. An example of the change made during the coastal storms was 60 percent more of the coast area in 2018 than in the previous year when the restrictions were relaxed. So there are some examples that we can make more positive changes in relatively small ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u18	Mr. President. Tomorrow there are eight weeks, 56 days, since the European Court of Human Rights issued a sentence in the National Court. Previously, the state court, the National Court, and the Supreme Court had discussed the official transfers of Sigríður On. Andersen, by the order of the national court, and led to the conclusion that it had violated the law on this project. Every time a judge fell, the then minister seemed to disagree with the conclusion, and it seems that she succeeded in convincing her fellow minister of the government and the members of the government that all three courts were wrong. This has been clearly evident, as the government has responded in a small way to the uncertainty of the situation that has occurred since the beginning of the National Court's work in January 2018 and has been warned here and elsewhere. But it's done, we can't hang on to what should have been done. We have to watch what the government is going to do now. In the same week, the Court of Human Rights issued an appeal to the government to bring relief to the court. Four judges at the National Court do not participate in judicial work, and that fifth judge will be added in the fall on account of a study permit. This is a third of the judges in the court. The numbers of the court case fall only less than that, and this is a per se in violation of a court of justice, apart from the seriousness of the delicate cases that are being brought before the court. Mr. President. There is no way to await the decision of the head because of the Icelandic government's fortunes that are not yet gone out to Strasbourg. Whether appeal is permitted or not, light is present. National rights must be assisted. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Is it not right to take care of the responsibilities you have to have the legal system in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's request, and he intends to start by holding it in my place, as it were, the judicial system is functioning. I don't agree that the justice system in Iceland is not functioning. The question is, What will the government do? Yes, the sentence came eight weeks ago. Then came the process of identifying the judgment that had to be done, for although we could have won the case or lost it, we could not know what was in the court. It's been three weeks since the request for a revision. It may take a few weeks to get the answer. The Supreme Court has said that the judges are duly appointed. The Supreme Court has not taken a different stand since then. The question is, What will the government do, and what will the government do to help them? When I made the decision that we should request a revision, I said that I would not take action until we decide whether or not the matter would be addressed. I sometimes feel that there's no big issue, no small issue, and no problem, that there are suggestions, and we just need to choose which one of them is better to fix it so that we have an unscrupulous 15 person rights. However, I have not seen a suggestion to correct the situation we are in. There are suggestions, and some have been suggested. But it must be thought in this context, whether it be me or any other, that what a justice minister does at any given time may be involved in the judicial system. It is not as if there are a legal code that we simply need to correct in order to be judged in another way; rather, we know what kind of intervention a minister is, i.e. The Commission, for the court also to have some effect. Therefore, I say, these judges are legitimately appointed, and we are simply waiting to determine whether or not our request for revision will be agreed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u20	Mr. President. Righting System functional? The car's riding on three wheels. Maybe he'll make it, but he won't get far. The same thing is, if the government isn't gonna do anything for the land's rights and make it work on three wheels instead of four, we all know what that means. They are the victims of what should be least. These are those who do not have proverbs, such as small children, who are waiting for a decision, or those who are accused of wrongdoing. Thus, it is very irresponsible to say that a court on three wheels instead of four wheels is functional. It's been three weeks since the government thought of, five weeks after the death of a sentence, an appeal. However, the request for appeal has not yet come from the Icelandic government. That letter is still being won. So it wasn't right that it went out about three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u21	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u22	Why? [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u23	No, I said the decision was made three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u24	The decision was possibly made three weeks ago. [[The president calls.]] The law book is a court law. I'll make three suggestions for the highest degree. Minister. provisional regulations in the Court's Law can be set out to replace four judges in the court. [[The president calls.]] Permissions can be granted to those who now have no work. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of other rules I can set in a side room when I have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u25	Mr. President. I'm really good at talking to what. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand to help with this situation. It was a decision to request a review, and it takes time to do this. I'm not ashamed to take the time I think it needs to be taken to get it done properly. I don't have a problem being criticized for being too careful. Justices are independence, and they say that I can help them on leave. I didn't send a judge on leave. It's not like that. Judges consider themselves appropriate. They have said: At this point we do not think we can judge. They haven't been on leave. They haven't stopped. The Supreme Court says they're duly appointed. [[Up front.]] People cannot be removed, and the Supreme Court says they are legitimately appointed. I know all these suggestions. A senator crossed. I've never published it, and not the government, but that the government isn't going to do anything. We made a decision, or I decided, to request this review. [[The president calls.]] It's the next step. When we decide whether it will be done or not, we will take the matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u26	Mr. President. The government has not kept its political course secret when it comes to the personal contribution of the health system. It will not be interpreted in any way that an army against any private action within the medical sector in the past few months, and it appears to be primarily due to some political requirement. Our health system is our most important system, our most expensive systems, and it is crucial to our making wise use of funds and efficiency at all times. However, this policy of the government has directly led to the direct reduction of measures in the areas mentioned above, such as replacement operations and eyestone operations, over a period of 12 months. [[Up front.]] According to the surgeon's records, the latest available, they have been reduced by 20%. That's when I'm the highest. A health secretary to further examine these data. At the same time, more than a dozen percent of the same measures have been held, and at the same time, we look out that we are spending a huge amount of money on health care. It has to be that when it comes to the health system, not who provides the service, patients can be confident that they can have good and timely health care when needed. I'm asking the highest. Minister, in view of these figures that the minister claims he did not recognize, he is on the land surgeon's website: What is she going to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. We agree on the fundamental importance of public access to health care and also the provision of public funds. Since 2015, the number of replacement operations has increased significantly, the number of waiting lists has decreased, and the duration has been prolonged. That's the way it is. Hv. A senator then asks that he does not care, as he puts it, who does the service, and then he is likely to care whether it is public or private. I have noticed that at the Council of the Council, restoration has taken on the role of special spokesmen in a health care professional. Then I want to know that 40th. A law on Iceland's Medical Insurance says, on the permission of Presidents: It should be taken into account that the health care programme does not interfere with the services to be performed according to health care legislation. What does that mean? A report on this directive adopted here to the 2007 law says, by permission of the president: ▪ It is not expected that if it disrupts the public service system, it will be negotiated to a private provider for services. Thus, it is not possible to pick out the most profitable aspects of the service if this means that a public agency loses the ability to provide services in a practical and safe way. This is in law data with local laws. Hence, any decision made by a minister or health - care professional is a major responsibility. We must watch our steps so that they do not compromise their ministry. That's why we need analysis, so I'm waiting for the surgeon's report on the results of the waiting list program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u28	Mr. President. According to surgeon's records, when combined with the total number of lens replacements and replacement operations in 2017, the latest 12-month comparator period from October 1st to September 30, 2018, was reduced by a total of 1,200, from 6,200 to 5,000 during the two consecutive periods. The struggle to shorten the waiting period after replacement operations is not effective. On the contrary, the list of waitings for a period of time is increasing. There's no point in hiding that we're better than we were in 2015. There is also much greater need. We've got to do something here, topv. Minister. This does not refer to the public health system. It is the direct policy of the government to bring them the same tasks from private sources to the public system that, however, seems not prepared to accept them. Patients must be placed in the foreground, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u29	A respectable president. On one occasion, there was a group that spoke of the most important interests of public interest and less personal interest, but for some reason, this same group here repeatedly speaks of the interests of those who are traders in a private market. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u30	We're talking for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u31	A respectable president. It is also important to keep it in place that when Iceland's Medical Insurance Act was passed, these total interest laws were being taken care of. Hv. For a review, the Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson was then the health minister and assistant of the health - care minister named Hanna Katrín Friðriksson. Then the decision was made to accept the law that it could not be done and that it would be impossible to pick out the most profitable component of the service just to profit from the sick and injured. We need to look at the whole thing. I'm in this office to look out for the overall interests and including the protection of public health systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u32	President. Last year, in its issue of February, something happened that did not occur too often at the Grand Parliament, when all of them agreed to vote in the same way when the votes fell. Parliaments agreed to a synonym signed a signing proposal to hide an education and cultural minister ordering a group of employees making a cost-and-time program for digital printing that will be available to read online equipment and will consider meeting contracts with the authors of such digital redundant writings. In a discussion of the matter, I would like to use an illustration like a Web we know of many magazines, for in the shortest cases, this proposal is designed to look into the practicality of writing Icelandic languages of books that are no longer marketed so that it can simply be looked up on on on the entire Internet. Madam President. Because I'm angry with paraphernalia, I've had a clear understanding of the highest degree. Ministers have not yet returned a report to the Generals on this matter. However, since I am benefiting from the expectation of news reports, I decided to use this opportunity to talk to the highest degree. The minister to see if the report or report is ready, what the case may be. Is it suggested that we consider this matter? Could Allallis's conclusion, agreed with 50 unanimous votes, become a reality and we see Icelandic digital redundancy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for putting this matter on schedule and for being a zealous spokesman for the matter, for which the situation is extremely important to Icelandic culture. By spelling, digital technology would enhance the public access to writing in English and short - lived goals to promote the state of the Icelandic language in a digital world. Already there has been quite a remake of Icelandic printing and e.g. has moved the National Library to some 70% of the books published by 1850, 1,700 books. However, as indicated in the case of the day, it is clear. A senator, that we have to do a little better in these matters. A respectable president. I will present the report shortly, but its main results are that the plan should be aimed at the spelling of Icelandic printing, or at least In one phase, to books in Icelandic, both original and translation, written in the library system Against. The number of registered publications from 18501⁄2015 is more than 88,000, and based on the estimated total number of pages in this period would be 9.3 million. A respectable president. The report is on the final meters. We've come up with a plan. This is a big national agreement because it is also related to the grammatical project, i.e. putting it all in the same context as additional access. In my later reply, I will be more aware of the progress of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u34	President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to give clear and clear answers and are excited that the next step can be taken. I hope that in not too calm for the Generals next week, there will be more time to discuss that report. It's like the highest. The minister came in, it's a rather important matter. I think it's unexpected that it's the 9.3 million - page books from 1850 -2015. I knew we were a book people. It is interesting to see how many pages we have written in those years. But like the highest. A minister came into this room is of utmost importance and will, in effect, make it possible for us to look up books wherever we are, whether we live next to a library or outside the world or to live in the street, to advance the progress of Icelandic literature that we all support.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u35	A respectable president. This issue is so growing that it is important to us that we control it in the way that the results of the group are drawn out. It suggests that the digital recycling will be performed in six years, with three work stations in two places in the country. Based on estimated pay due to the use of capital rights, there is an even increase over the processing time and the cost of the project could be about 600 million. K. and the annual cost of operating is then more than 41 million. K. It's obviously an investment, but it's a very good investment because I think we can use it on the grammatical project in the future. I am truly ready to look at ways to finance the project and then begin work on progress issues for Icelandic culture. Thank you. A senator for putting the matter on the program and the council for agreeing with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u36	President. Here it is suggested that the fee for a particular service be increased by 100%, double. This is a price for a service that should generally be considered a positive one. This, however, is only the basic cost, for it is not a matter of primarily meeting the cost of reviewing such applications, and it is added to the cost. If the cost of the office is tried to review these requests more, the cost is at stake. So here it is simply a form of barrier to search for services and another obstacle to people who want to invest in society, want to build something up, to innovation, and, of course, first to those who have less money for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u37	Mr. President. In the 3rd. The bill is a double-priority bill, as has been tore in here, which I didn't feel was enough support for the committee, especially since the entire fee is actually charged at the end of the case. We can only support more of the rules in the bill, but this article will be held at the Porta Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u38	The general rule is to pay for the required service. This is certainly a raise in terms of pay, since the cost of a taxpayer is primarily paid. In recent years, about 60% of the required ones in recent years have not resulted in more payment. In approximately 40% of the cases, if I remember correctly, people have had to pay the exact amount of time, which is approximately $7,500, because there's more work to it than that. It is reasonable and reasonable for us to ensure that those asking for binding opinions depend on the cost paid by the tax manager, otherwise the tax manager will have to pay with and pay the cost of the money he is paid for other projects. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it is wise and wise to make a decision to raise the cost in the way suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u39	Mr. President. Of course, this is a good step forward by reducing the cost of e - mail. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that the decline is not much. There is almost no record of anyone involved in the operating of database systems behind each entry. I hope this case will be resumed after some experience finds out, and the pay will move closer to reality. The reality in this case is really about zero, if not just zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u40	A respectable president. I'm just going to make a quick explanation for some technical changes that need to happen, so it's going to straighten out right on the stick. It is in the process of a change in government shopping law, instead of ◯1. 5 mg/m2 in 2 g. Come on: 2nd mg. To explain further, the bill was wrong at the beginning. There are no e-digits 1st. but at 2 mg. They'll fix it up here. On the one hand, it says after 4. If there is a new article, as follows: After the word "no." 1st. mgr. 66. g. The law comes: or inaccessible. Here we are changing a headline that is not only about an invalid offer but also about an unacceptable offer. Finally, 13. Which shall say, This law shall come to pass. Still, between 10 and 11. value of 1st September 2019 and 8 pars. 1st January 2020 That's where we're primarily changing our chain responsibility, i.e. Her time. We discussed it extensively on the committee and on the discussion of the matter, i.e. that it does not go into effect until January 1, 2020, as is the case with the government's shopping arrangements at chapters 10 and 11. change in value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u41	President. This is a case that is very vivid, unfortunately, for the way people approach the environment all too often with what can be called mere showyness. Plastic and its problems over the past few years have been discussed, especially with regard to plastic pollution in the seas. People have looked for ways to deal with this, but this is not a view of the overall impact of the problem or how solutions are really best to reduce the problem. If we look only to plastics, it has been shown that about 90%, even more, of plastics in the ocean come from just ten rivers of water where there are eight in Asia and two in Africa. Not much of the plastic we use in Iceland is available in packaging or store plastic bags. If that were the case, it would have to be more careful that bags were not on foot and ended in the sea. But there is more. In Scotland, for example, in 2006 a bill like what we are discussing was considered. However, the English Parliament decided to take two years to try to assess the overall impact of legislation and whether others might be better. The conclusion was that banning the plastic bags would be environmentally undesirable, making paper bags that would rather affect a number of environmental factors. Six years later, in 2012, the British Environment Ministry examined the same issue and had a very extensive, thorough study of the effects of such legislation. The results there were more interesting and indeed clearer in this regard, and they revealed that cotton - carrying bags, which were then excrementing, were highly recommended in their shopping trips, had 176 - fold negative effects than plastic bags. In other words, a 176 - sachet would need to be used instead of using a 176 - plastic bag. It is only assumed that the plastic pouch is used once. Of course, they usually have an afterlife, even though it is nothing more than a bag of refuse, holding them around the other garbage and hopefully preventing it from going all over and out of the sea. No matter what factors were considered to be involved, whether sea, marine life, or climate, the effect of other solutions, especially cotton bags, but also paper bags, maize bags, and other solutions, overall had more environmental negative effects. Therefore, we must want to examine other countries when they indicate that there are better ways to go than the ones we are going now, although they may not easily fall into the era of the day to say: Well, we are going to ban plastic bags as well as solve the world's problems. It is not that simple, and even in the end it can have harmful consequences, as was the case when everyone was encouraged to drive through a diesel truck before a person examined the bigger picture and research, showing that these conclusions had all been based on false reasonings. Finally, I would like to encourage the Council to approach the environment in a more complete way than men do, not just from some phrase or simple, visible solutions, but from trying to find solutions that work. There is no indication that if humans really want to look to science, look at the bigger picture, solutions like the one offered here will have a positive effect. It can even have negative environmental effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u42	Mr. President. In the past, it was customary to be ashamed of Albania when the people were actually scolding China. I thought of it when I heard it. For of course, this particular bill alone, which is an EEA induction, does not address the world's plastic problems or Iceland. This, however, will make a 18 - step plan that is in the consultation guide. That's a complete approach to how we're going to overcome too much plastic use in Iceland. I don't know why. A senator is aware of that strategy. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was in that company, and I visited there several times. We even mentioned the work of this group in a debate on the day before, I think, or Friday, and the planned operation schedule. It can be shown here. Regarding plastic bags and paper bags, the paper bags used instead of plastic bags usually come from forests that are shown to be replaced in the wood - made rhythms used. I refuse that these loads are worse than plastic. The cotton bags used here in Iceland are primarily from recycled cotton. I've got a bag like this, and I'm sure I've used them more than 200 times so that way. A senator can be quite calm that we are not here to do the cotton bags he mentions to the point that it is in any way close to the use of plastic bags. So this is a small step and the EEA-injury in the direction we're all going to aim to limit the use of plastics, and I'm not saying absolutely not, because it's so absurd but to limit the use of plastics that we can do without. This is where we used the sharps. A senator's word is phrase. I'm going to make that impression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the inn. I just want to hold one thing here. The head of the Committee, which I believe to be correct, that I wasn't on when the matter was settled from an environmental and transport committee, made it possible that the matter would be worked on the basis of the implementation of the European Parliament and Council's Council 2015/720 and that this would really be the basis for the case presented here. I would like to make a special point in a talk. Minister of the environment, Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson, when the matter was at hand. Um, at that time, the following was specifically taken, with president's permission: ▪ Here is going beyond the directive in view of the obligation for all carrier bags. It is important that we be aware that the European Union's Directive goes on a thin plastic bag, the thin layer we know, which is actually for single use, and the sachets that are in fruitsheves and such. However, the European Union's directive does not go to the natural, serious bag we all know, and most of us use in the trash at home and so on. Just so you know, if you keep it, you're going beyond the order and I don't think it's wise at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u44	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator and, of course, I should have said this was building to the EEA that went further. She's going further. And this is precisely in the interest of the environment. It is common for the EEA types to go further in individual aspects. That's right, here we are going further, but in a positive way. I think it is clear that we forbid this bag after some years, and we also do other things to meet the store here, which has a considerable supply of these thin bags. We postpone the execution of this prohibition to meet the store here that has some supplies of them. I believe that we have the introduction and support of this case taken care of the environment and, on the other hand, taking into account this particular business of interest in trade in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u45	A respectable president. I would like to mention the leadership of this important case, Gauja Gauju Magnúsdóttir, who proposed in 2013 a pact proposal to reduce the use of plastic bags, a proposal that was finally approved for 2015. However, I would like to mention Margrete Auken, which covered the directive here being adopted through the European Parliament and was able to modify the weak proposal recommendations in the clear and binding targets set by Member States. This ball began to roll in 2013. There was no need for prophesying to see where it was headed. Plunger embezzlement will at last be taken at 2021. Our future, our action now! cried out in the East. We may be wondering, " It will take eight years to complete an operation as simple as banning a single - use plastic bag. ' We need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u46	President. I recommend to the members of the greater section the subscription proposal for a bill to set short work hours. The bill suggests that work hours to work in a work period during the week's active days will be reduced from 40 day work hours to 35. In the treatment of the case, the committee received a presentation on Reykjavík City's test project on thebbreviated week of work. According to the city of Reykjavík, abbreviated workweek included the workweek. Reduced mental and physical symptoms of stress, increased job satisfaction, and reduced short - term illness. Then there has been no change in the language files of the workers involved in the project, suggesting that the workweek's shortening has not affected performance. It was also stated by the Committee that more agencies and companies have been working on similar tasks on the shortness of the work week with good results. The reviews given to the committee provided considerable support for the ideas behind the bill. A review of the Age of Sustainableity and Democracy states that Iceland works longer years than people in controlled countries and that the scope of this work is more than in other countries in OECD. On the other hand, the description of the company of women in the workplace points out that according to the recent findings of the Hauspology, there are a number of hours of work in Iceland of about 16◯22% less than previously thought, as well as the more the production of workers. Hence, there are factors that are modified and cannot be fully addressed to the subject of the bill's report. It was also noted that during the past few years, the work arrangement has changed considerably, and with cell phones and laptops, employees are constantly linked to their work. It would be reasonable to review laws about 40 hours of workweek and otherwise the labour market legislation in relation to the changed circumstances. However, the view that changing the law was important to ensure greater consultation between the labour market partners and the government. The Commission supports the main objective of the bill to improve the production and quality of the labour workers in Iceland, and in this regard the Commission points to a general success of experimental workday project. Is it therefore time for the government, in agreement with the labour market organisation, to meet the demands for the changing work arrangements. In the absence of such extensive consultations, the Commission cannot recommend the bill's approval but direct it to the Department of Social Affairs to work systematically to review the labour market legislation with the aim of increasing the possibility of achieving a balance between employment and family life. This can also help to help you to cope with the feelings and anxieties of growing children. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the case will be referred to the Minister of Social Affairs, which should be carried out thoroughly and in consultation with the labour market organisation. Under this opinion, the one standing here, along with Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Friðriksson Friðurkssson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Infantóttir, Guðsson of Brjánsson Brunssson, The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, the Hair of the Signý Kristish Kristjánsdóttir, and the Vilhjálmur of Árnason. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for the history of the case. As mentioned in her case, I am on the committee's opinion, but the reason for my being here is because I didn't seem to be clear enough in the matter. The senator's reason for this form of deduction is this way, i.e. hiding more work from the Minister of Social Affairs, is that, in itself, there is no solidarity. An article on the procedure discussed in the bill. Although we support the committee and support this approach, we do not. Then there are the other factors. A senator came in, and is absolutely correct, that it is very important to make extensive consultation with the labour market partners, and most likely the Ministry of Social Affairs is the most suitable one to agree on such discussions and to bring a holistic bill. But I'd like to remind you, we're in business right now. Therefore, it may not be the time when the council will act in a specific way and establish new legislation, but much more so that the council will express its will in the way shown, but in the past, it will agree with the above. On this basis, I and potential other members of the Committee, with differences of opinion, agree with this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u48	A respectable president. As we have seen, I am one of those who consider myself to be a welfare committee in this matter. I'm not gonna spend many words on it, but I just want to talk about what this case is a good example of how a debate that begins on the edge of the politics and is the imagination of people who bring it into this scene can move into the middle and now become part of the main flow of the political debate and that in a relatively short time. I looked, for example. In an article that Sóley Tómasdóttir, the city councilman left green, wrote along with Magnús Guðmundsson, who was then the mayor of the United States, and Helga Jónsdóttir, the director of the BSRB. This is an article in March 2015, four years ago, when the test report was launched by the city of Reykjavík, mentioned here. The point had been won especially by these Councillors and by those sitting with them in the mayor's return to guess the year since the first idea was proposed to the city council. So we're talking about a five - year period in which abbreviated workweek, as a way to establish a family - life society and ensure an improvement in the balance and quality of life, varies from being a peripheral concept and of being an idea that's getting a pretty well- meaning here at the General Assembly. While this term is a deportation proposal, we are directed to the government to take up this conversation with the labor movement that is fully involved. I am here mainly to thank those who went before us and to rejoice that we can continue our fine work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u49	A respectable president. I just want to thank you for the review and maybe mention that this bill was submitted on 16 October 2014, which is some time before the article refers to. So you can find an even older reference to this shortened work week, so that this 200 - year story of a short work week we're still working on is not named.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u50	A respectable president. I'm not going to go to some finesse with the senator, but because he snoops because the proposal was proposed in October 2014, it was a few months after the proposal was submitted to the mayor and the test project began to start rolling. Let's just let them have what they owe. Although the members of Parliament who have brought this up within the Generals' walls deserve all commendation, the concept came from grass root, and it was introduced into the countryside first. Let's just be happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u51	A respectable president. I can further trace Pirata's policy on this, when the policy of Congress was adopted. She's even older than that, but let's leave it between parts. An article describes the description of the company of women in the business world, where the report is not entirely supported by a new set of statistics that need to be considered. Nevertheless, there are isolated cases, e.g. in the research project of Reykjavíkburg, in the Humvee's experiment project, which is not even an experimental project, which shows an increased production by the shortening of the work week, there is really no basis for saying that the report such is smiled on this matter. Although the general figures are somewhat variable in the Habitat, we know that these employment market numbers are relatively inaccurate. The research, however, greatly supports the results of the report. Other than that, we are at the General Assembly with a commission from the voters. Of course, we're working with the statements from stakeholders, the partnerships of industry, employers, unions, etc. I interpret the bill and present it in a way that makes it more correct to define day - to - day work. What is done within him then is a contract between employers and employees, but it is totally up to us at the General to take a stand on this right. That's what we do when it comes to everything, regardless of the bigger conversation. While it is a good thing to get it out of the way, we can make that decision, no matter what it looks like, on the rights of the people, from where we receive the authority. I agree that the end of the matter is just fine professional. For me personally, with my authority and my convictions, the arguments presented in the report are sufficient to accept the bill. But I have nothing against taking this shorter step towards more data, I never complain. Then just follow-up with the Minister, making sure he's doing his part as all members of the council pointing at him, and I look forward to this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u52	A respectable president. I'm offering a proposal for a resolution on a Western partnership in the sports of children and teenagers from the Westnoric Department of Iceland. The General concluded to challenge the government to promote the cooperation of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland in the field of sports between children and adolescents. It follows the following article: This proposal is presented on the basis of Western Council's conclusions. 1,2018, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body on September 5, 2018, in Thors Harbor, Faeroe Islands. It is important for a youth of the Western countries that she meets in sports and culture. The basis for success in sports is the potent role of sports and sports activities and investments in infrastructures such as soccer and sports halls. The Western countries have all good experience with child-adolescents in handball, soccer, or basketball. There are many conventions in the United States in these articles for younger classes of boys and girls. In winter there are conventions in basketball and handball in many parts of the country, as well as soccer in the summers, where more than 1,000 participants are involved, and numerous parents and helpers follow each other on land. There's a lot of interest in these conventions in Iceland, whether or not they're in girls' groups or boys. To further connect the Western nations, a systematic sports team could be established, e.g. by inviting young athletes from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands to participate in the international conventions or to establish Western sports events held in three countries. In this way, the link between the countries could be enhanced through the entire generation of young people. Or it could be a global success for the Western nations in team sports. By sharing national experience with the development of infrastructure, training, and facilities, the Western countries can improve their effectiveness in this regard for the future. The Council therefore directs them to the government to fully investigate how the cooperation of the countries in this field can benefit from the development of Western national youth and contribute to the continued confidence in the future cooperation of the countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u53	A respectable president. That's a good suggestion for the Western Council's Iceland Department. However, there are a few things in not a very long report I'd like to make up for the continued progress of the situation in the Westnoric Department of Iceland. The value of connecting countries through sports and leisure, creating personal relationships between individuals, and above all, sharing experience, as presented here, is not necessarily necessary. That's how to win things, like you say. That's very good. But the first thing I have to pause at is that the report contains only three sports articles. I realize that this is only an example because we regularly have many large conventions in these articles on the land and the other nations as well. In my opinion, though, it can be extended only, and it can't be listed merely. There are a number of other articles that hold larger and smaller conventions and that could be opened as a Western mold or that would specifically invite Western participants to join in. I wanted to point this out, first of all. Then I pondered the words both at the beginning and at the end. I am relatively direct by nature, but as tradition would have it, the Council concluded that it is a recommendation to the government to fully investigate how to strengthen cooperation. According to the outset, the General concluded to challenge the government to promote cooperation. I was particularly concerned about the downside, whether it would be right to say this just a little stronger, not necessarily an extensive study, but just to strengthen cooperation, as it says at the outset. You might add that a team would be set up to prepare further cooperation in that area. This is one of the many good projects that have come from the Western Council's Iceland Department. This is usually the way I mentioned earlier, that certain recommendations are directed to the government. And it's natural that the government will depend on when and how things are done. I'd like to remind the council that there's something in our hands to follow up on such projects and take care, if it's of interest, that they'll be able to succeed. That's our job. Finally, I would like to say that I had the privilege of visiting the council to both the Faeroe Islands and Greenland last year. It was the first time I visited the nations and the wonderful things I had to come to both countries and realize how well we have and how much these neighbors and good friends look to us. We're a bit of the big brother in that partnership, and it's a responsibility for us to lead it together and share our experience and knowledge with those good friends. They look to us, and we have advanced in some areas, e.g. with development of sports and leisure activities for children and adolescents Of course, we should share that experience and promote the cooperation. So I will support this suggestion when it comes to votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u54	A respectable president. I present a synonym proposal to cooperate with the Western countries in a digital world from the Western Council of Iceland. The General concluded that the government will challenge the development of the formal area of the Western countries for the future of the Icelandic, English, and Greenlandic. The first step will be the establishment of a team of one to two representatives from every country that has knowledge of grammar and grammar. The role of the task force must be prepared by a review of the status and outlook of the three languages as well as a summary of the products of language (nerves and databases) available for each case and suggest that cooperation in the language equipment and other responses to the digital revolution. The following report is included: This proposal is presented on the basis of Western Council's conclusions. 2/2018, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body on September 5, 2018, in Thorsla, Faeroe Islands. Today, the digital revolution has a profound effect on all languages. In the digital world, English has been said to have a greater proportion of the official languages of Europe's European nations exposed in this field, even at risk, to the risk of the literal death of their own. Since language status in the digital world is usually worse than that of fewer numbers, it can be expected that Icelandic, ecstatic, and green - eyed palaces will be kept in place in this regard. In 2012 a 2012 survey of European projects revealed that the second - largest of the 30 languages studied was Icelandic. The Faeroeses were not among them, but it can be seen that their situation is even worse. Because the languages are faced with a similar threat from English, it is important to consider how Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland can work together in this field to protect and strengthen their language. Although they are all young, their situation is certainly quite different. Icelandic and French are very close to languages, but in Iceland they are not related to Brazilians and French have long been in a close home in Danish, but Icelandic has been the next monotonous man in Iceland. In spite of this, there is no doubt that the three countries can benefit greatly from cooperation in this field. The Western Council is an obvious site for such cooperation. The first step in national cooperation could be the formation of a group of workers with one to two agents from each group. These agents would need knowledge of grammar and grammar. The role of the task force would be to create a report that included a summary of the status and outlook of the three languages, each in his own country, the overview of the language equipment (superfines and databases) available for each case, Suggestion to co-operate language equipment and other responses to the digital revolution. The first factor included will take into account the research project the grammatical consequences of modern digital language living in Iceland, which includes: aimed at using other microspheres as an example. The second factor may include: looking for examples in the above reports of META-NET. Recently, there has been an ambitious grammar programme for Icelandic and the Federal Autodiversity Agency has been assigned to run the centre of a grammatical programme to manage the implementation of the programme. It is important to pay attention to this work and see if and how it can also be used in support of Hellenistic and Greenlandic. It could be a partnership, for example. This includes using methods developed for Icelandic language technology (e.g. to create software or databases) for the rest of the cases as well. It is also possible that the three countries work together to connect with international software companies in order to get their languages into their products. If two representatives from each country were in the service group, maybe a few would come. to suggest that one of them had an understanding of grammar and grammar but the other one was a political or political official who had a political authority. Of course, this depends on how the committee's role would be defined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u55	Mr. President. The value of the language of the mother doesn't have to be varied, but I'm going to do it here. I think it's a very good suggestion from the Western Council's Iceland Department. She's entitled, and she's absolutely necessary. Like what? Friðriksson In the electronic world, you personally feel that children are very young even when speaking in English and in everyday English. Not so many years ago, children of Iceland were not speaking English at all, nor did they fully understand her until she was ten years old or even longer. And adults never even got any skills in the English language. But now the English language has become the second language of most people in Iceland, and it's going to be if we don't do something radical, even the first language even with this continuation because our devices speak much of English and all this stuff is on TV. We are, for example. with Netflix and there is no paediatric communication kit. The children are natural sponges, and they learn it as if it were nothing. It is good to know more than one language, knowledge of language is valuable, not if another language begins to take over, slow down, and confuse normal language. There are a number of studies on the subject of speech development. It is unmistakably true that good speech, a fine foundation in the mother tongue, reading ability, is a tool for study so that people will get a good grip in the community for an extended period of time and gain a measure of knowledge. One is that our mother tongue is part of culture, both personal and cultural identity. Therefore, it is important that every nation take care of their tongue and cultivate it. An article on this subject refers to a work now being carried out. First, an analysis of the grammatical consequences of a digital language community and the rest is an Alversian grammar project, a self-employment agency. It is looking for technical solutions, how we can get tools to speak Icelandic and how we can speak Icelandic with the tools, that they understand us, and we understand them. This project began in the past year if I recall correctly, this education minister's grammar program so that it may not be very far off, but it has been very busy looking for information and considering what is available so that it can continue working on it. For fun, I found an article from Vera's 12th year magazine of 1993 on equality. Before I continue with my language and native tongue, I would like to say the following of a discussion that was about 40 hours of work: A few members of the Parliament brought up the subject and took a little evaluation of who had invented it first, as it were. It's fun to relate the concluding words of this article, Mr. President. The occasion is the suggestion of the Women's List, which was dropped at the council, to increase Icelandic education for immigrants. This will be discussed in this article, very pleasant 26 years later. We still have that subject on our table. Here's the workweek, too. I want to read it here for pleasure, even though I didn't intend to. I can see why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who participated in the discussion about 40 hours of work week earlier, is sitting in a side hall. It says, by permission of the President: TWO parents of Iceland do not have time to talk to their children during the great formative years of childhood and much less share their literature. It's a social, political, and cultural problem. I want people's attitudes of value. I would like to set aside a short period of work to allow people to have the right to spend more time with their children. It's been 26 years since it was written, which is interesting. In this article on the value of the language - it is the subject of the question, i.e. The cooperation of Greenlandns, Icelanders, and New Yorkers with searching for solutions in the digital world to strengthen the position of these three languages says, on permission of the president: ▪ The language is a mirror reflected in both individuals and nations. The language focuses on our thoughts and attitudes. Go on says: ▪ The people, their occupations, and the land they build help to shape a language for them. In this case are just the words and just the grammar that the people need. A change of language is like a change of personality. The conclusion is that a good foundation in a language is of utmost importance to us. It is our tool for further study and development, for our personal and cultural identity molding, and for all of us to look for ways to share our experience and knowledge with our neighbors in the United States and Greenland. I second that this is a good thing, and I hope it's agreed and won.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u56	A respectable president. I have to jump up here to answer the senator quickly, since she specifically directed her words to me when she read about the female list's accomplishments in the past. The Senator actually proves what I'm pushing into politics more and more, that no matter how good you feel you have, when you start studying it, it turns out that this is an idea that the Women's Art proposed 30 years ago. This is especially true when it comes to matters related to family life, which involve achieving a consistent relationship between work and personal life, whether we talk about preschool, workweek, birthworm, or any setting that we have reasonably tailored to those with young children. All of this is rooted in the female list and in the broad context of the women's movement, which has been speaking for decades. So 26 years ago, I found that reading Vera's words was a success to show us how well that message applies to us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for coming here and underlining this because when you look into history - and in general, you're supposed to learn from it and be able to do more of it - you can tell that in the women's list history in this case and in the issues that he stressed, such as that. In view of today's discussion, #metoo and the women's freedom of choice, a senator went over, is the focus of the family. We had a pregnancy-cation bill from the highest level last week. Health Minister for discussion, old-fashioned cases from the Women's List. We have sexual violence, and now it appears in more forms, digital violence today, and other things that did not exist at the time of the creation of the Women Art. I agree with what. A senator described the ladies' art as a highly progressive political movement. He certainly had the right and the right to show us and may remind us that the equal division in a church hall - or that is equal, that feminine views are, and so that man - made - is always the best mixture, that it is a state of equal superiority. Because there is a certain difference between the sexes, although it cannot be overcrowded, but to determine a balance, the hall reflects that half of the nation is female and half are male, and we need to have as many places as we can divide. We're moving in the right direction, but the percentage of women is shrinking in the Council, has just decreased in recent years, and that's not good. [[The president calls.]] We were discussing the language, but it was a nice ride.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u58	A respectable president. I now recommend a proposal for the Council of the North of Iceland. It means that the Council of the Council would ensue to assign prime minister to appoint a advisory committee for the removal of administrative barriers to facilitate the free movement of individuals and businesses in the north by promoting and harmonizing the work of the administration and other members in this area. The advisory Committee shall include: The members of the Council of Iceland are appointed as members of the management board of the Northern Council. According to one report, for a long time in the Norwegian partnership, much emphasis has been placed on the struggle against the administrative barrier. On behalf of the Norwegian Ministers of the Council, the Council of Governments, appointed to be officials and politicians from the five Norwegian countries along with the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and the Islands, are to be paid for the free movement of individuals and businesses in the Northern states. The Norwegian Ministers Committee also directs the information services of Info Norden to assist those who move between the Norwegian countries, study or work in a foreign country other than their country. In addition, Info Norden collects information on administrative barriers that are impacted by individuals in this situation. The Northern Council has established a administrative conglomerate appointed to members of all countries, groups, and committees of the Northern Council. At the Northern Council, held in Oslo on October 29 to November 1. were accepted recommendations on the removal of administrative barriers, and now I read them directly from the report, by permission of the president. ▪ The National Council directs them to the states of the Northern countries to consider how the decommissioning of administrative barriers is conducted in each country, both for information, for the analysis of government obstacles and problems, the communication of information for recruitment and coordination and the solution of such barriers, as both the administrative rights to detect and that the government and the local Ministry recognizes. A review of the national work of decommissioning the administrative barriers can learn much from the work of the Finnish Advisor Committee. Mr. President. The Norwegian Advisor Committee in Finland for administrative restrictions referred to in the motions plays an important role there in the battle against the administrative barrier. The advisory board is the head of the preparatory meeting held in Finland for a meeting at the Council of the Council of the Norwegian Ministers. The committee gathers three or four times a year. The advisory committee will discuss on a broad scale the administrative barriers that have developed within the administrative board, and will employ and appoint representatives of Finland at meeting the administrative rights board. The main task of the Committee is to provide information, identify and report administrative barriers at the first level. In the Finnish Advisor Committee, there will be a group of members. Councilmen, Finland's members of the Council of Human Rights, State Department representatives, Department of Employment and Employment, Department of Social Affairs and Health, Department of Justice, IRS, Social Security, Education, National Affairs, and Hello. The National Council of Iceland suggests that by order of the Advisory Committee to find a Finnish model, it will be possible to improve the activities of the national bodies working on the outing of administrative barriers and to strengthen the position of Iceland's representatives in the Council of the Council of the Norwegian Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u59	A respectable president. I welcome this synopsis proposal from the Council of Northern Iceland, where the violation of administrative barriers - and perhaps not least preventing administrative barriers - is one of the most important things in cooperation with the European Union and particularly in the Norwegian partnerships and the Northern Council. In this regard, we feel that we are trying to ensure that we will become much more informed as a legislature on the importance that administrative barriers are not there, so we have much more in mind in our legal profession. That's extremely important. So I think this council mishap is a very important one. It appoints prime minister to appoint a advisory committee for the removal of administrative barriers in order to facilitate the free movement of individual and business in the Northern countries by promoting and harmonizing the work of the administration and of other members in this area. In other words, we place in constant limits what I read here, putting in constant limits how to work against the administrative barriers, not only to eliminate those present but also to make sure that new ones do not exist. Government barriers are not very vivid, and it may not be easy to understand exactly what is being said. They can be many. For example, when the public citizen intends to move abroad to work or to study, to get a witness, to fill out various forms and document family compositions - tax factors and rights, there may be some administrative barriers that make it more difficult to go to other countries to work, educate, and so forth. For example, when a certain airline consistently made a passport requirement when we went to the Northlands but did not accept a driver's license, something like that, it was a form of administrative obstruction. Important administrative barriers that we are working with now - which have often been discussed when working with administrative barriers in the Northern Community - are administrative barriers within the EEA or the European Economic Area, whether we can co-operate in the Northern Countries in making the European Union a requirement to establish national legislation in order to reduce the administrative barriers within the Northern and within the European Economic Areas of the whole. One of the problems we are currently working with, as the Norwegian Health Ministers are trying to figure out a solution together, has to do with the electronic medication package leaflets. The legislation is now being made to include package leaflets in the local language in the medication packages and out of the strict control systems for the medicines, how to open the package and other items, this has become more expensive and complex, a process that increases the cost of medicine in Iceland. We have requested that in order to obtain a more payable business and a more practical drug, we can deliver the Package Leaflet electronically with the medicines in the language requested by the customer. In a population - here, the percentage of immigrants is increasing, and we are always moving toward the population - it should include increased service to the inhabitants of the country and to all the northern countries where this would be permitted. This is one of the great obstacles we're working on, so I'll take an example. Otherwise, this is often family registration, tax communication between countries, business, and so on. I think it's extremely important that this case be accomplished so that the Icelandic management department, together with the Council of Northern Iceland and the General, will be aware of trying to reduce these administrative barriers as much as possible. Thus, if we succeed, we limit the quality of norse cooperation. It will also help us to reduce new administrative barriers, and preferably not, when we work on legislation here at the General Assembly. I'm here to celebrate this case, and I think it's a great deal of interest to the people of all the states of the north. This is a fine example of how much international cooperation can make a difference - most of which are the most important international cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u60	Mr. President. As a member of the General Assembly of the Council of Iceland, I am a member of the European Parliament's Council for this proposal to conspire to a hearing of counseling the Commission's suspension to pay for a free journey in the Northern countries. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir traced the subject of the motion and why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason also spoke about the importance of this and various governmental barriers. In particular, he traced to the electronic leaflets that I believe are very important interests, and especially to us who are part of a small country where there are few who speak the language. It is especially important for us that not all medicines are needed to insert the package leaflets. If well controlled, this will lead to a loss of both costs and to better security for patients who will be able to get this information in their mother tongue rather than in Icelandic. The main reason why I keep silent is to discuss this synoptic proposal that I would like to address the most likely hostilities before which the Council of Northern America faces. It comes from the existence of the world's welfare systems, though they are about many corpses, all of them based on their own legislation, which particularly affects pensioners. What do I mean by that? To further explain my issues, the purpose of decommissioning the administrative barrier is to pay for the free movement of individuals and businesses in the Northern states by promoting and harmonizing the work of the administration. There are many things that are going very well. This will do just fine, though there are certainly certain obstacles to the rights, in order to form hired people. In Iceland as well as in other northern countries, people are encouraged to go to other northern countries, even settle there for a longer or shorter time, study, and participate in a workforce. It's going, I think I can say, in that large, fairly well, and rights follow people. However, if something happens while people are living abroad, and this is really true anywhere in the world, if they have a serious accident or a serious illness, and if they have lost their skills, they are stuck with limited rights within the national public security system because of it, as I entered the past, that the systems, the social security and welfare systems in the North countries, are built up in different ways and by special legislation. This is a matter that needs to be considered both in the domestic context and in the international context. But I think it's very important that we also deal with this in the Norwegian context because the North countries boast that they have a highly integrated system in their countries. Therefore, if an Icelandic student makes his move to Denmark, a 24 - year - old person, and suffers from an unfortunate accident of car injury and spinal cord injury or a severe neurological disorder and loses his ability to perform the task of a microenergy pension in Denmark because the system is in a different structured environment. No one under 40 gets a disability pension. If that person takes him back to Iceland, he'll also not have the right to be in full biofuels here because there's a number of residence years in Iceland to have the rights for the system. There's no patent solution. This has been discussed in various groups and groups. of the Council of the Management Board. It's just one of the things that have been insoluble so far. I don't mean to pretend to have the magic solution to the way things are going to work out, but I think it's very important that we keep our eyes open that the second fine system we've created in the North countries by integrating the countries has this big flaw in terms of security, welfare, and financial survival of people. This should be kept in mind when changing national legislation and when considering issues related to the administrative barriers in general. So I think the council concluded here, although it doesn't solve this problem, it's an important suggestion for that, at least so that the site of the advisory committee suggested for the General to give prime minister a order, and it can be arranged. The first step in solving problems is first to recognize that the problem is there to begin with. I want to finally say that I believe it is a great benefit to be set up by a advisory committee on the removal of the administrative barriers. It depends, of course, on the person sitting in it as to what will be done in the ministry. The administrative barriers are some giants, like the one I've described, and others are like those that run to the electronic leaflets, pretty large, yet technical, that can be solved. Others are things that can simply be solved by being alert to what is going on. Certain countries in the North can solve some problems by showing support. I believe this is a very important step in the right direction. I think all of us who are interested in the Norwegian partnership agree that we want the North countries to be integrated, and we want to live up to our integration. Therefore, I hope that the Council's dissecting proposal will be accepted and that we can continue working against the administrative barriers at the Northland scene.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u61	A respectable president. It is my pleasure to make a recommendation for a hearing of the shape of emergency services outside the hospital. It is fun to say that, in line with 1. Twenty-six. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1991 has been discussed with a welfare committee on non-meditation matters. It is a new word for this, out - of - hospital care or emergency services, where services have developed and changed in nature and have come to a new name. According to a warrant in this legal case that I mentioned in the General Assembly, the welfare committee took this group up on its own and decided to dive into it. The committee met with a member of the Federal Ministry of Health, the Southland Institute of Health, the Fire Department in the capital area, the Orange Company Association, the National Contact of Fire and Emergency Services, and the Land Security Department of Landsbusters to discuss the situation and cover the scene. The management committee has excluded medical and emergency transport and emergency services from those who become acute illness or serious injury, i.e. Emergency service outside the hospital. In this discussion, this synoptic proposal arose as a continuation of the initiative work by the Committee. It had to be concluded that the committee, all members of the Committee, decided to submit a synoptic decree that reads: ▪ The General concluded to assign a health minister to shape a comprehensive public policy on business and emergency care outside the hospital. The aim of the policy must establish the cooperation of those who are engaged in the ministry, in a clearer way define the responsibility and workforce within it, and to promote education, re-education and training of those who work in emergency transport and provide emergency services at the scene of accidents or other emergencies. The committee considers this proposal to be a challenge, and happily it can be applied to those best known in this category and to the committee. The level of health and emergency transport within the medical system has increased substantially over the last few years. Various factors have led to an increase in the frequency and requirements needed for the ministry. The change in population age, the growth of tourists, the decrease in place of birth, and the closing operating rooms in the country have played a major role in this development. In parallel to changing circumstances, technology has advanced, and the potential for emergency transport and emergency equipment to save lives or prevent permanent damage, such as disability, due to serious accidents is greater than previously. It is important to remember that the correct first reaction and treatment given between an accident site and a health care facility can make a difference in human life and health. A powerful emergency service outside the hospital is thus an essential link to a powerful health system. Because of this situation, you've got a bad feeling. The welfare committee needs to put more emphasis on the system, so to speak, on this case, it needs to get more attention, according to Article 1. Health Care Programme, No. 40/2007, that all the people of the country have the opportunity to obtain the most advanced health care that will be available at any given time. Over the past few years, government and health - care experts have been tested for the best way to respond to the increased importance of the ministry in accordance with an earlier objective. However, there has been a lack of perspective and future policy in the ministry and in the distribution of responsibilities within the seminary. Several factors can be summed up on the basis of a service contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance or the Ministry. Implementation regulations and emergency transport procedures, No. 262/2011, all transport of the sick and injured outside hospitals, whether in the air, on the air, and on the uterus, is discussed. According to 1st mg. Section 4. The Regulation will proceed with the medical premeditation of the country by a head of emergency services outside hospitals. That's 5th. A review of the emergency procedures to provide the Ministry of Health, now the Ministry of Health, advice on all professional matters relating to the use of medical care. Otherwise, health care laws or regulations on the grounds of the law do not discuss the means of medical transportation. An ambulance is operating on the basis of a service contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance, and the Red Cross has taken care of the ambulance operation on the basis of a contract made at the Ministry of Health. That contract expired at the end of 2015 and has not been replaced. Other people come to the use of medical equipment, including Fire Department in the capital area, the accident - control society of Landsjörg, and the National Guard. These people have developed a workforce and a partnership with which there is good reason to form even more. The institutions that come in one way or another with the ministry also exchange professional employment and rural society. For example, in the administration of social and child - care ministers, the Human Rights Office is responsible for harmonization of fire defenses in the country and guidance by local authorities on requirements for fire control and firefighters, as per Article 6. Law on Fire Prevention, No. 75/2000. Municipals are responsible for the operation of fire fighters. Then the Ministry of Health handles the affairs of hospital transportation, and the Ministry of Justice is the highest officer in the country, often providing needed assistance for the implementation of emergency transportation and emergency services. The review of the Committee gave some suggestions on aspects of the service that need to be reviewed. It is stated that these points will be considered particularly when a well - founded public policy on business and the organization of the ministry will be established. Among other things, it was found that the head of a hospital doctor's work was 50%, but this did not contribute to the structure and quality monitoring of the seminars. A better identification of the role of a medical care committee would have to be made, setting up a centre or a research centre of specialists in the seminary so that there will be a meeting area for the organization. There were also some suggestions for improving the education of health care workers in the country, as detailed below. I'd also like to guess about design, which is a secretary to advise and advise on the performance, that everyone sitting there is an employee or working at either the university hospital or the hospital center of a hospital flight. So it does not reflect this diversity of service in the scattered areas of service, its members of which have no direct access to this strategy. It is one of the factors to be on top of this work, that all the views and challenges are always on the table. A proposal for a resolution on health policy to 2030 highlights the creation of a system that ensures continuous service to users at the right service level at each time. Among other policies, access to national health care and services by specialists is to be balanced by telecommunications services and well - planned medical transportation. I also feel that by means of such an organization, health care professionals who operate in hospital transportations or emergency services can be used to help with remote health centers and other health services throughout the country. An essay with the synopsis points to the success of abroad derived from so - called centres of knowledge. An idea of such knowledge site was also presented in the Review of the Committee on Hospital Services. In order for the expertise that becomes available in the ministry to be most effective, it is important to consider how to get the skills, skills, and knowledge together in the above proposal for a health policy resolution to 2030. In this regard, under the Commission's discussion, the results achieved with the establishment of the Development Center of the Health and Development Centre of the police, which has the legal responsibility to conduct training except in police studies, will oversee the ongoing training of police officers and other activities related to police work. The establishment of emergency services centres outside the hospital would ensure that the work procedures of the hospital or the school's disabled, service program, re-education, and quality monitoring of the service would be coordinated. Thus a much better view of the improvements needed and how best to ensure professional education, re-education, and training of those who serve in the ministry can be achieved. To some extent, the same ideas are revealed in a report on increased expansive access to a medical flight prepared by a health - care provider ordered on February 9, 2018. The results of this report suggest that there be a consultation group, which would include: the role of harmonizing a procedure in order to shorten the time of the response and to ensure the correct response, improve and coordinate the registration of all reactants, organize the education of those who are engaged in the ministry, and assess the potential need for additional services. It is important that in the implementation of a new health policy it will be in the foreground to establish a similar working field. As we develop policies for emergency services outside the hospital, it is necessary to ensure consultation with all the professionals who come in some way to hospital and emergency transport as well as to the service professionals. Solutions need to be sought for the best way to build up and renew the ambulance fleet. The funds needed to buy new ambulances and equipment are assured in order to meet changing needs and to increase the stress in the ministry so that those who care for emergency services outside the hospital can provide the best. This gave suggestions on improving the education of health care workers in this country. It was stated that the Theocratic Ministry School's syllabus was in its early teens and that there was a full reason for its review. It might be considered whether there is any reason to establish an emergency research course at a university in this country, but this education has so far been needed to advance abroad. It has also been shown that the importance of re-educing health professionals in the country where events may be few but the importance of doctors willing to respond less. By assigning a center or a group for emergency services outside the hospital to care for such reviews, it will be possible to ensure that the knowledge of those who are involved in the ministry is fully useful at such reviews. I believe that if we were to enjoy such centers today or a treatment group, if we had this uniform organization, there would be much of the challenges and solutions we have not found to solve to this day. So I believe that this proposal lays the basis for building a powerful service so that we can have all the information available to make right decisions quickly and safely in this important series in order to meet the standards of health care that everyone has the right to the best available health care. I think it's a huge deal. This category could be discussed for a long time because it differs in variety and circumstances. As we have seen, there are many things to take and many to work. I'd like to direct interested persons who would like to learn more about the status of this class on a new radio that can be accessed on the Internet called the "False Radio." There is a detailed discussion on this subject and further into it. People may not always realize the situation because they have a lot of idealism in these cases. It makes things work. They are trained to solve problems. When we call 911, the ambulance will be here. We don't expect there to be a problem, he's always coming, and he's fast, and they're doing a good job. Maybe the situation isn't always that way. Therefore, I would like to welcome again and again the solidarity achieved by a health committee, this initiative in which the welfare committee went, and now follow in on this matter. I'd like to direct the proposal to a later discussion, and I expect the council to respond well to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u62	A respectable president. I'll say the final words of what? paritaprevir The Árnason of Willim of the Year to celebrate the development of a concierge proposal to shape an emergency service policy outside the hospital. After a few things have been done, it seems to me that this concierge proposal is very consistent with the highest health policy. A health minister submitted, and the council not long ago approved. I've been interested in this case for a long time, i.e. Outside hospital service. I was soon taught by good friends that you speak of extramarital services, not medical transportation, that's a far too narrow term. Extracurricular services cover a lot of things, like what? paritaprevir Since Vilhjálmur Árnason passed over earlier, extramarital services are a very important factor and are growing in our health care. As shown in the report, this is also true. Because of the change in population age, the growth of tourists, the decrease in birth status, and the closing of operating rooms around the country, we have a fairly large area that people need to take a considerable amount of distances to obtain health care. We have to face this changing landscape. It's a convolutation motion. The welfare committee is an experiment and a part of trying to fill up the holes, define responsibilities, connect parties, improve the education of those who come, which is extremely important. All this, i.e. This consistent and improved education is natural to improve the safety of the public in the country. Unfortunately, we've seen news of a very delicate situation, I would say, e.g. in the automobiles used today. As mentioned in the report, the agreement on the operation of a medical vehicle has been available for several years. It's not supposed to happen. We've got to make sure we have money. We agree to have this service, that it is important and is an important link in health care, as I mentioned earlier, but then we must provide funds for the business of necessary instruments and provide funds for the education and re-education of those who provide this service. I may not have much to add. I think the story is very good, and these are the things that are mentioned. I agree with what's going on here. We have specific patterns of knowledge sites, such as whales. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned just before, which could be used by medical personnel. I'm not going to keep it all any further than we used to, with a discussion on some Western and Norwegian languages. That's why I'd like to mention in this context - I can see why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the welfare committee, is here in the hall - the committee may have in mind the continued progress of the case report available on the land physician's web. This report is a Norwegian report, and for the first time in such a report, it is the result of a study of an outpatient team that was assigned to focus on medical transportation. The report defines processes and terms and suggests 13 common quality aids. In these matters that others do, I have super faith in cooperation. The situation elsewhere in the North countries is exactly the same as ours, i.e. that there is an increase in extramarital services in all parts of the world. So we are not alone. We should work with our neighbors, look into their knowledge and experience, and work together to find good solutions. So I'll put it in with you. The welfare committee says she's looking at this fine report. It was published on the land surgeon's Web of March 19, to remind me, this year and may be useful. I thank the Committee very much for having started this job, and as I said earlier, it is in good harmony with current health policies and the role of improving our health care services, thus ensuring the safety of citizens in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u63	Mr. President. We'll discuss the proposal of a welfare committee for a resolution on a policy for emergency services outside the hospital. I don't think there's anyone at all inclined to mention in the beginning the initiative as a dog. paritaprevir Of course, Vilhjálmur Árnason and others have been involved in this case, and he has every reason to thank for it. This is important in a changing world where things get faster and the demand for things to happen more quickly and that everyone has access to service in the fastest and best possible way. Our ability to render service is constantly drawing closer to some sort of infinity. How important it is then that we have developed and clear our approach to this issue! It is also appropriate to say in the beginning that, in addition to the Greek word for "whisper. " A medical committee has been considering this matter, and I know that it was a conversation with the Ministry of Health. This matter has been examined within the Ministry of Health, and I am not suspicious that some conversation has been made between some of the members of the council who present the case with the Ministry's employees and ministers to support the case and make it possible. You see, it's very nice to see it, and perhaps in part, it's why I keep silent, that this is how the council can set up initiatives, discuss matters in its own study, and also call the execution of power to help them. Then the council would direct this project to the Commission. It is also nice to see that the committee is in full agreement on this process, and the committee has been particularly resolved to land this case under the leadership of its chairman. There is reason to mention this specifically. I assume that when the Ministry goes to work that is mentioned in the proposal, they will be called to the stakeholders involved in the case. We know that in Iceland there have been relatively diverse means in recent decades, since being directly fired by a health facility for a specific area to be fully voluntary, as it were. paritaprevir Will Árnason came in earlier, and a man is anxious to say, and all the methods in between. But just in the case of the health policy, which we will expect to do at this council, it is important that the council take the initiative to say, "Yes, we are willing to accept these medical policies, but it must be followed by the rapid and successfulness of the ministry to take care of these factors. If they're what they're doing. Those who are not members of a health - care committee read health - care conferences closely and have not already seen that the members of the committee see that these two things are completely hanging together, that health care may not be well before we have crashed this end or at least. Press this job on. It's also important, like a beard. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came in, linking it to this basic set of health care laws: All the people have the right to the best health care available, etc. I hope, Mr. President, I correct this text, I have a natural way of knowing it from the outside, but it may be that there is a single word or two. But we as citizens of this country, including us as lawmakers, must believe that these laws have some meaning. We know exactly and we've heard that it's not quite that way today. We know that the cost of travel and the other challenges of living in the scattered areas of the land is for us to pursue service. Often, then, there is no question that we have completely comparable opportunities for service everywhere. But if we can make sure that the move is somehow in some way, and we believe that it will work out well, we may be able to take another step in securing it. The education of ambulances is getting better and better all the time. Although this has not yet been the case in Iceland, at least not all, that the education of health - care workers as a university education has become so widespread in many parts of the world that this is education at a university level, which is often very complex. It can be particularly complex and responsible in a large country such as ours, where people are scattered and sometimes have to move long distances, often with their lives in the hatches. How important it is to be well prepared! I trust the Ministry of Health will specifically participate in the shape of this whole policy, as it must follow. And as beautiful as it may seem to be that there are interested persons at some places that handle these factors, we must also in some way make sure that these people have access to the educational tools needed to do this responsible job. There is no other way to mention the role of the Red Cross in Iceland. I think there's good reason to mention it and thank you. I think it's safe to say that the Red Cross through the years was a burden, at least in the construction of medical transportation in many parts of the country. But now, to a far greater extent than before, we are looking at other medical vehicles than just in automobiles between one of the two places available to drive. We are also talking about airplanes and helicopters and even ships and boats in this regard. All of this has to happen. Especially am I glad that we have come to this place and hope that this case will be successfully supervised by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u64	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to a law proposed by the Parliamentary Committee for a change in the National Park in the Þingu as of 2004, where the bill centers on contracts with services. Transporters are beside me. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Páll Magnússon, and Karl Gauti Einar Einar Hjaltason, who say she has been appointed as a member of the Parliament. This bill is contained in three articles and Article 1. It reads: 5:15 p.m. The law's coming up with a new article, 5th par. a, as follows: Unauthorized activities are not allowed in the National Park without a contract on such activities at the Constitution Committee. In such agreements the requirements for the function to be considered necessary should be set, including for the protection goals of the park. The Parliamentary Committee shall shape employment policy for management within the park, including the conditions for people to pursue employment within the park, including with regard to national protection targets and agreements. The Parliamentary Committee is permitted to implement a Regulation which requires more details on the conditions for operating, handling and making agreements under the regulations established by the Minister. This law goes further in terms of national rights and the decision of national boundaries, national lands, and penalties. 2.g. is short and simple: ◯ At the 2nd issue of Article 1. 7. The law will be added: and on the basis of negotiations. Section 5. a for which the costs of hosting allow, supervision and supervision should be met due to the permit activities. Section 3. is standard: ◯ This law already comes into effect. I'm going, with permission of the Supreme Court. President, to intercept a report. It says: ▪ During the past few years, people's quest for the National Park in the United States has increased, in line with the rise in the number of tourists in Iceland, a national park that is one of the most feared tourist destinations in the country. In particular, it is noted that while this increase in guests has increased, the park's guests are enjoying recreation in the park. In order to meet the national reservations of protection, it is necessary for the movemen to recommend that jobs be strictly restricted within the National Park, on the basis of a contract with the Þingalval Committee. In this way national parks can contribute to the presence of the park's environmental employment goals at any given time. Furthermore, the main subject of the bill is: The bill suggests that employment activities at the national park's national level must be banned without any agreement on such activities at the Parliamentary Committee. There is also a provision for such agreements, management, and monitoring. It is new, but a comparable arrangement is set out in the current law on the Oceanity Nation, No. 60/2007, with subsequent changes. Experience has shown that the host's interest in using the resources of the park has increased tremendously with increasing number of tourists in recent years. Based on national protection objectives, it may be necessary to set the management conditions and possibly limit the number of people who are allowed to use the quality at a time in which the area does not carry an unlimited number of tourists, and there is a decrease in the protection value of the region. Some of the articles on the bill are considered as a subject in the bill, and it says about 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The article is suggested that a national park be forbidden without a contract on such activities with a member of the Þingvall Committee. Based on the national protection goals, it may be necessary to limit the number of persons in the specific areas of the park to be placed - that is, to speak of limited quality - ◯ and to choose between members who wish to do so. - You can do it with an invitation or another way. - --of the public opinion of the distribution of limited quality comes in until an examination, such as regarding public advertising, so that interested persons are aware of the need for distribution. Then there must be the opinions relevant to the decision-making process, including with regard to national protection goals, and care should be taken to make a financial decision. It is expected that there will be a further explanation for the handling of the issues in Regulation (s). Then I'd like to come to another thing: 3mg. New Section 5. a is recommended that the regulations for the National Park take place on the United Nations rather than on national laws and national boundaries and national boundaries, where a small portion of the park is within the country. I did my research on how big that part is and there's about 37% inside the country, we can say the northern part of the park. That's why some of the articles in the bill continue: Therefore, it is not necessary to have the permission of rural governments because of the use of land and land rights within the park. It is sufficient to be granted by the Constitutional Committee. And about 2 Peter 3: 1 - 3. par.Unable to connect to POP ▪ The article adds to the 1st paragraph. 7. ... aboutcharging. Paying what is expected in the new budget is necessary to meet the costs of making contracts expected in the new Article 5. a and related to costs. Remuneration within the Regulation is expected to be further recommended. ◯ There may be no need to question the importance of employment policy. It is so obvious that with added stress, extreme stress really, on the United States National Park, it is very important that such a professional policy exist. No record of rules, written contracts, transparency and protection policies, etc. is needed. which lays the basis for this desire to be able to shape and operate professional policies. It is considered good to have the greatest agreement between the three national parks on employment policy, but it will never be compatible in all the national parks, for there is one thing that is different between them, both size and diversity, and drawing near to and such. It is only natural, then, that there is some difference, though the basics are the same for all three national parks. The national park's employment policy is in progress, but this bill is precisely the basis for the development and management of the National Park Committee and its staff. So, I hope the bill goes down like it's supposed to be. Board of directors and monitoring committees for payment and wishes to see its payment before a intermission at the beginning of the summer. Mr. President. I've finished the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u65	A respectable president. There are several factors in this bill that I find interesting, that the Constitution Committee makes negotiations, the Constitutional Committee sets up and resists employment policies and the Constitutional Committee puts in place the Regulation. Since this is a Senate committee, it performs an unusual administrative role. I think it's more correct, as was the case with the speaker. The official, when it comes to harmony, said that we would be more involved and that we would become a candidate rather than a member of the Parliament's Committee to conduct a follow-up case. I'd appreciate it if a Senate committee, for example. The Environment and Transport Committee would bring in the Parliamentary Committee for its surveillance. However, several members of the Environment and Transport Committee need to change their seats and attend as guests. There's a slight conflict with the Senate surveillance role as it supervises administrative aspects, as shown in the bill. Would it not be a more correct step, if there were any agreement, to remove the Constitutional Committee and hand it into the minister's hands so that it should be in a more proper place, in line with agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u66	Mr. President. I appreciate this inquiry, if we say so. A Senate committee now has the remarkable possessions of meddling with the National Park on the Þingles. And why is that? Because it's ordered in the law. The law is originally from 1928 when there were no national parks in Iceland. That's how people lived in this area, and it's been going on for all these years, changing the national park law, as in the past 2004 and now. We have this special status and we have an obligation to determine, for example, what to do. Whether to buy cottages or not, let's say some cottage that is no longer in use within the park and some more. I've been discussing this before from the platform. What happens, and we're supporting many, I think, even most, at the Þingalval Committee and even all, that there will be a change in a new law on National Park, where there are a number of projects being taken from the Þingalval Committee and set under a similar arrangement as in other national parks. Then it would, for example. be one of them. But it has not been of interest to eliminate this link altogether, to shut down the Parliamentary Committee, or something, which is, of course, a political question. Some members of the Parliamentary Committee would answer: Yes, that's all right. Others would say: No, not at all. We want this link to the nature of Þingvall and social status, etc. I can totally agree with many of those things. A senator said. But as long as there's no law there and there's no law, it's like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u67	A respectable president. This is the very reason the company uses and is to use, that this is the law we follow. We are the legal authority here, so when this question arises, of course, it is also for us to answer it. Therefore, there is also a slight conflict between the council and the application of laws on a committee that it does itself, when the right function was to set a law for the execution of it and then we would see to it that the law is being done. It will inevitably be strange to ask members of Congress whether they will abide by the law as members of Congress, but not as executives, when the Constitutional Committee still appoints regulations, conventions, and does things the Ministry should do, or some institution should be doing. I'm not buying the whole argument that it's just the law, because this is where we put the law. True, tradition is old for having a member of the Parliamentary Committee and something similar. There are some things we've been changing, that I hope for better or more modern ways, and why not change this too? I think it is very obvious that there is, as in any other committee, a fund for the elderly is another example, in which members of Congress are not to be involved in some sort of premeditated decision, actually being carried out at the same time as they are members of the council of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u68	Mr. President. It's not like I'm trying to get involved. It's not like I'm here to get involved. This law has been established by the General Assembly, and the Council has established its jurisdiction, and the Council will change this law. It's not a complicated formula. It's been like this for almost 90 years. And why? Men pause at the state of the Parliament, and then we can debate whether this relationship between the Generals should be somehow, that the Council has no authority in policy policies such as The Parliamentary Committee or anything like that, if there is, or the National Government, if there is one. We can only talk about it. I'm not gonna do it here. This will be corrected only by the strength of the General Assembly, e.g. the laws I'm talking about about National Park. And I would not personally go to the glue, even though this one unique place in the country had some special position and the oversight of the Generals itself had some place there. I'm not that great a prince, and I can't see one single exception from it anywhere in the community. As I say, there is probably a political controversy over whether the Parliamentary Committee should exist, what its role should be, whether the National Park Institute or the laws of the future are true or false, good or defective. I don't know. And while it's like this, I think it's totally wrong to accept this bill and let it come true. We need this job policy, and it will be made only with this bill and the job of the Parliamentary Committee and the personnel of the National Park.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u69	Mr. President. The reviews that were sent last to the World Congress for a bill similar to our current conversation were all negative, if I recall correctly, except the reviews of the local store. I am not following this bill, as is the case with other similar topics that have been discussed regularly in the past decade and even longer. I've described that attitude before from this part of the platform, and to it, the following reasoning is: First of all. Alcohol is not like any other food, nor is it necessary to support it further. Alcohol abuse is well - known, and even if only because of it, alcohol is to be sold only in special stores. Second of all. Increased bioavailability of alcohol increases consumption. There have been studies. Now those who disagree with me about the bill could say that the increase isn't that great. In that case, each percentage increase in alcohol consumption increases, leading to an even greater rate of damage than the percentages below. There you can, for example. There is a limit between moderate consumption and excessive consumption. Third, please. Increased consumption of alcohol causes health damage. The World Health Organization estimates that alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for public health. The cost of alcohol consumption is shown by society, health, law enforcement, and justice systems, the insurance system, and the business. In case of a moment. Congress is serious by supporting the bill, they also need to tell where to take the money in order to meet the cost. Fourth off. Increasing consumption increases the distress of descendants and caregivers of those who consume alcohol to excess. If governments make decisions that lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, then feelings of distress, e.g. children and young people of this country, growing. It is among the side effects the bill would bring, it would be a law. Number five. If alcohol is found in a special store that only sells alcohol, it is a special decision to enter the liquor store and buy alcohol instead of a subject, just as soon as the drinking tank is passed by at the grocery store or the special store with the groceries. The preemptive activity of the Italians in alcohol abuse has attracted international attention. That's a job that even builds. how we have limited access - and that's how I want to keep it here. What is the great need to do what the bill proclaims? Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson wrote a fine article published in the News magazine a few years ago and is still in good health. He even says, by permission of a president: ▪ Alcohol is not the same as any other product. Drinking alcohol is not the same as drinking sodas or milk. Alcohol is a drug, and in my opinion, it is not a business to enter a supermarket. Rather, it should be because of the nature and damage of drinking as easily as possible. The main factors of public alcohol prevention are strong prevention, high drinking age, high alcohol taxes, and restricted access to alcohol. Alcohol prevention has over the years been very powerful, both by public members and by members of society such as the U.S.A., the sports movement, and the Good Work Programme. In Iceland, drinking has been higher than any other country we compare with. It's mostly Sweden and Finland, who have the same age limit as Iceland. Since part of the ban in 1922, alcohol sales have been under government rule. Gunnar Alexander continues, with the permission of the President: If one of the four sources of alcohol abuse were based on government policy, the result would be more alcohol consumption. This increase will lead to more social problems, more drunk driving, more domestic violence, more divorce, more alcohol - related deaths, more lost work hours for alcohol and community agencies [...] will have to spend more cost [...] to cope with the consequences. A recent Swedish study examined the effects of allowing alcohol to be sold in a grocery store. The number of people applying the figures for Iceland would increase, attack, death, and disease days, and an increase in drunk driving rate by 230 a year, attacks by 700 a year, and deaths from more alcohol use by 70 a year. The number of sick days would increase by 390 thousand. [...] Is there reason to change course? No.How can I And here comes a quote from Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson, a health analyst. President. The surgeon general has published a summary of the study reports on alcohol. The research is extensive and the results are consistent. Now I'm going to quote some of them. There's a lot of them, and I'll say it. Senators to examine all of them. In 2012, the effects of privateisations on alcohol abuse and its harm were examined. The conclusion is that strong evidence suggests an increase in alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption as a result of the privatization of alcohol. Businesses on alcohol sales contribute to less harm than free sales. One of the most effective ways to reduce excessive consumption and reduce the death and harm caused by alcohol is by government control at a liquor store. In 2010, a study of the possible consequences of shutting down the government's patents on alcohol sales in Sweden and taking up free shops was conducted. Two cases were taken in advance. First of all, trade patents for other exclusive liquor stores and second, allowing liquor sales at grocery stores. The first case is estimated to result in a 17% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the incidence of deaths by 770, assaults by 8,500, and disease days by 4.5 million each year - Sweden. The second event is estimated to yield a 37.4% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the mortality rate of 2,000, assault by 20,000, and disease days by 11.1 million per year. A 2011 study on alcohol consumption is also included in the case of privateisation and is summarised in 17 studies. The results indicated that a 44% increase in alcohol sales per person is in privatized. A 2013 U.S. study of alcohol consumption and economic growth in the United States has been conducted by one of the studies that can be considered on the land of surgeons. The result is that an increase in alcohol consumption is associated with a decrease in economic growth and the decrease in alcohol consumption associated with an increase in economic growth. Increases in alcohol tax increase economic growth. It seems that those who talk about government management and the importance of increasing economic growth also want alcohol at grocery stores or special stores with food, although all reputable research shows that it has the exact increase in the cost of the state and the growth of the economy. I think it's strange contradictions. Health management is a priority, not an increase in access to alcohol, which will increase the cost of the health system we have been struggling to finance. Lára G. Sigurðardóttur, doctor and physician of public health, writes on the back page of the News magazine of March 11, the previous fistula under the heading of the Council of II. This wrote to Lára, by permission of the president: ▪ When it's so easy to buy it, my husband said the other day. We have now been living in California, where alcohol is sold widely in stores. I thought of those words now, when the liquor bill is being discussed in its 11th year at the Italian Parliament. The rational support of the carriers of the bill is that the private access of liquor sales and the allowing of alcohol advertisements is by no means guided by the nation's interests. Here are some of the points given by members of the Parliament: Icelandic beer producers will have to make more money; access is so much so that we can increase it even more; if some break the alcohol law, let's just cancel it; focus on alcohol prevention for the next five years, because the drinking problem will increase with the bill; ◯The appeal has to get to a higher level; so let's not make sense of others, and most of all, but not least; then the education for the common people will solve all problems. If they had been read to by the billers, they would know that education is low in alcohol prevention and that it is just government action, such as limiting access and demonstrations that are most effective. Isn't this a good thing, or do we need to put a alcoholic bill at the Council? I myself can recite the negative consequences of alcohol consumption, yet I drink more than I understand. I'm ashamed to say it, but that's how a man can be imperfect. I'm still letting me say this because I know I'm not the only one who doesn't do what I know is in my best interests. Quote in Lára G. Sigurðardóttir finishes, and I want to agree with all her words. President. The availability of alcohol in this country is being proposed for all studies - that will only result in increased consumption. Increasing consumption means increased health pressures, and not only on health care but also on law enforcement. However, the bill has not been determined by the benefit of children, as we here have undertook by signing and legally establishing the United Nations Children's Covenant. It will also affect sexual violence. I would also like to mention studies that discuss how to reduce lifestyle diseases, including reducing the incidence of cancer. One factor is to interrupt access to alcohol because alcohol causes cancer if the intake is too high, from the throat to the rectum. All studies say that alcohol consumption is the bioavailability and price of alcohol as well. I want the end of the line, Mr President. Let's give it a go. Senators looking into research when they make up their mind about the bill, learn from other people's experiences, and do not increase problems such as law enforcement and health systems, and social problems by agreeing with the bill, which I allow me to say is not what the nation's asking for. I don't know how anyone's calling for this bill, except maybe the movers and the representatives of the country's store.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. Well, there's quite an excellent speech for a senator. It was very well studied in various studies where increasing the bioavailability increases alcohol consumption. We Icelanders don't have to rely on any other research because we've already done some experiment, long ago, when we legalized alcoholic beer in 1989. Many references to the projections that have died have been asked, including The person standing here, whether or not you want to turn your time back and ban the beer, etc. We don't really do that. However, we need to learn from it - and I hope to do so. A senator will agree with me - what we have already done. In 1988 the consumption of pure alcohol per person in Iceland was about 4.7 litres, 7 liters in 2012. She's back to the nine litres now. I suppose the increase since 2012 has gone down to some of the tourists. I just wanted to go over it with what I needed. A senator would agree that in itself we do not need to look over the pool to find an example of increasing access to alcohol drinking because we have the examples at home. It has been observed by the surgeon that the largest increase in sales during the past period is not through the ATSVR stores but through restaurants that have naturally increased in Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she thinks that we need in itself - though these research she referred to is excellent - is about to go outside to find examples for us. We have an example here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can say with what. Senator. We just see around us, and we know what studies tell us, both Icelandic and foreign, that increasing the availability of food is increasing. That's the way it is. And with the bill we're discussing here, it's suggested that there's an increase in bioavailability. If the Council is going to approve of that bill, there's a lot of stuff in that package. There are bad side effects that would follow the bill. Its access to alcohol is very good in Iceland. Nobody complains that alcohol is hard to get in Iceland. And the problem with alcohol is a big problem that we have to deal with. There's no need to add to it. However, I would like to quote the site of a surgeon who presents a number of similar research and research, which have been combined here in this discussion that each of them, each and every result, is in the process of increasing access. The primary prevention is limited bioavailability, high tax rate and high level alcohol prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. If I recall correctly, in a Swedish study, I saw that it is very likely that we will be selling alcohol either in supermarkets or as if we are now going to start giving us teas in special stores, which would be expected to be divisions in the supermarkets, or what it would be like now, that the consumption of pure alcohol per person per year will leave the more than 8 litres, as it is now, to about 11. Then we'd be on a couple with the Germans, the British, who die an average of two or three years younger than Icelanders. There's a lot of talk about not going into custody, and I don't know what, but I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament whether she has seen anywhere in the suggestions of the fine carriers carrying the bill how they intend to respond to major cancer cases, cardiovascular proliferation, and large increases in the number of cirrhosis that are now being observed in Iceland. It's practically the first time that research began if I'm not wrong. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she has seen it somewhere in the report it says that he intends to use some significant funds to face the growing health problems that we know will follow. I also want to ask you why. A member of Congress, because the discussion has sparked a desire to eliminate an ad ban on alcohol, whether she has come to realize the consequences, if any.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u73	Mr. President. I listened to this biller, and he specifically stressed that the angle was commercial, not human health. That's where freedom of the business was the most important thing. It has not been determined how much it will cost the government funds if the bill is legal. Also, it has not been appreciated, as I mentioned in my talk, the consequences for the children in the country. Yet, the commission that works with the bill must take it for both, how the bill will cost a government fund, and how it will affect the children of the country. We need to do both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She brought in a lot of things, and that is exactly what means by the effect of taxes on the sale of alcohol and what matters. We've discussed these matters quite often here in the Assembly Hall. I also find interesting when it comes to the social messages being sent. To me it is a certain normalisering when we begin to advertise alcohol, when we have increased supply in stores and people start taking their children, when it becomes normal, but not an exception, if you can say so. As mentioned earlier, the surgeon has said that there will be no return if we take this road. We can see the effect on the other North countries, since they are enormous and difficult to return, despite that. I also find interesting when we discuss the health consequences of alcohol abuse. It was observed by the U.S.A., I think, sometime that 85% of those who don't consider to be alcoholics may not come to work on Mondays because of lumber or something like that. Of course, the cost of an enterprise is high, and it was stated in the report by the Ari of Matthíasson that the cost was about 50 billion. But I was kind of going to talk about everything else. I wanted to wonder with the senator the worry I've had because in the scattered areas where there may be one grocery store, we have young people on payment; it's just the position we're facing; and even we don't have the age to sell alcohol. There may be one adult on duty, even in the back or something like that. That's the peer pressure. I have been very worried that peer pressure might cause them not to drink alcohol to their friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u75	Mr. President. I can picture a lot of problems in the performance of all of this. I really hope we don't have to think about them because the bill won't be accepted. One thing like that. There's a senator here named the Northlands. I'm in the Northern Council, and I'm dealing with Norwegian senators. When these things happen, i.e. that we are here having a stroke in this idea of increasing our access to alcohol, telling the Norwegian senators: Don't do it, don't do it. It's so hard to go back. Sweden tried to go back and do so in part. That is why they have such good measurements before and after and between. Their numbers are simply measurements of what happened during these changes. Norwegian senators say: "If you think access is enough, don't do this. I don't approve of getting drunk, but I want to keep it in special stores. I want to keep it so that it's a special decision to get out of the grocery store and into the liquor store, people will buy alcohol. But not to increase bioavailability more than it is. That's enough, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. I was just reviewing an article from the book The Health of Populations: Beyond Medicine, by Jack James, a psychologist. There was an interview with him when this matter was submitted at the time when there is a question of responsibility and whether it is on the shoulders of all of us. He there speaks of the responsibility of community members, cities, town governments, governments, all of them involved. Indeed, he crosses the habit and how it was affected when it was banned and, on the other hand, only to make exceptions. He refers to tobacco companies that got their way in Denmark. Under those circumstances, these blessed individual freedoms. It was different in Sweden, however, where the opposite direction was taken. It only gets into the health of the cities and says that the number of pulmonary deaths in Denmark is twice as high as in Sweden and that Danish women are at most at risk of suffering from lung cancer in Western Europe. These are similar countries in terms of biological factors, so he wanted to deny that tobacco was the only difference. He feels that we should not change these laws at all and point to Britain, as we have done here, where the number of cases of cirrhosis has increased four times since this was permitted. He's getting good at this. I find this interesting approach to him and to so many others that it has been demonstrated. Interestingly, this is exactly discussed in the Council of the North, since they are all of Norwegian origin. But because we've been discussing here a heavy and difficult matter, a pregnancy break, I'd like to mention an example known as peripheral, which has been on the table, e.g. that a woman should not even have a pregnancy break in spite of the situation if it is 22 weeks. [[The president calls.]] This is among the moisture that has been observed in many individuals on the combined effects of all these factors we have discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u77	Mr. President. This is clear, and we all know that domestic violence is often accompanied by excessive drinking. As soon as we increase access, we are opening the door to increase domestic violence in Iceland as well. Even though the increase is only 1% or 2%, it can still push people across the line with moderate drinking on one side and excess on the other. It's domestic violence, it's sexual violence, and I don't have to list all of it, we know the bad side effects. They're here today. Let us not increase it by increasing its bioavailability, making alcohol visible by freedom of advertising, etc. Let us evaluate the bill according to public health issues, by the interests of children, by the health system, by the law enforcement and by the community over their heads, and not by the narrow angle of this business - making movement. There's too much at stake. There are too many bad side effects that we do not want to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u78	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for a change in the law on liquor and tobacco trades, state funds spending laws, land doctors and public health laws and media laws, with subsequent changes, i.e. a little liquor. As one report puts it, the bill basically deals with the government's monopolis system of consumer consumption to promote natural and healthy competition and reduces the right to work and long ago the need for change in the arrangement. Both alcohol and the manufacturer's access to the market need to be increased because we have become a source of food here that wine is an unbreakable part of it, as well as considerable consumption of domestic alcohol and stability. According to researchers in the bill, an increase in access to alcohol calls for an increase in the problem of those who cannot control their consumption and who are harmful to those who have the addiction that alcohol can create. Therefore, a certain charge of alcohol will be laid on, which will be used as a preventive measure. It is also called freeing advertising on alcohol within certain limits. After reading the bill, I feel that some contrast is called on, both the market and the availability of access will be easier than we should fit ourselves and work as preventative measures to reduce the consumption of alcohol. This bill is not new. It has been presented several times earlier in a similar form. I have always felt that there were a few paradoxs in the reasoning given to me. I remember the argument a few years ago that this would promote small shops in the country, even in small villages where shopping would burn off. In contrast to this, I ask: What, then, is the bioavailability of those living in the scattered regions of the earth with alcohol? Now we have shops in each part of the country and most larger communities where we can buy alcohol within a certain opening time and select from a few species. I cannot see that the bioavailability of the rural population living in the more scattered settlements will be increased. I believe ATSVR is doing quite well in having a selection that people can look for. I think the access to alcohol will be somewhat lower in the more scattered settlements if this bill is achieved. In fact, it is not suggested in the bill that ATVR will be stopped by a small deal of alcohol. However, this will require a review of the ATSVR activities following the laid down of the bill. So you would think that its role would be reduced. If we turn to the "precautions " of this world, we will be considered on the welfare committee for many big and important matters. Almost without exception, we have received many good comments about the matter. We are, for example. reviewing health policy now and considering the comments on how we need to promote prevention and human health. If we look at other matters, there will always be future health and health risks. That's why I think this bill is a half-raced bill inside of that discussion. I can't see that we're taking an important step in the preemptive matter, even though we're paying a certain amount of alcohol that's supposed to go directly on prevention. As I said, the matter has been presented before the council, and there have been reviews of it. I'd like to quote some very good comments. It's, for example. Point to the United Nations Children's Covenant. What is best for a child should be the priority in caring for children. This means that all social decisions made and the lives of children must have a view of what is best for a child on the basis of its own. As mentioned in the preceding talk, we are talking about an increased bioavailability. I think we're talking about when this is released into stores, competition will increase that leads to a reduction in alcohol prices. We're talking about protecting children from the age of 14 to 20. It has been considered a precaution for children not to have access to alcohol and to be expensive for alcohol. I can't help it. Children don't have much money. If we further open on what I think is the thinking of the carriers of the bill, increased access and lower prices, we're talking about a sensitive group. Another sensitive group is alcohol addicts. They may not be in a job market and have little money. This adds to their problems. According to the 2017 Children's Protection Agency, what protected a small sale on alcohol is considered the Children's Protection Agency to be a reason for special pleas for their previous comments on the basics that protect the same subject by allowing the president: ▪ The Children's Health Institute firmly opposes the free gift of a small drug as this puts children at an increased risk of alcohol access, but studies have shown that increasing alcohol availability results in an increase in alcohol consumption. I found that another report was sent in very interesting to me. It was a miseries assignment from the University of Bifrost, where students began studying the possible social impact of the then existing bill, 2014, on the free buy of alcohol. The students took a few things first, and their conclusion was clear. By permission of the President, I would like to witness to her. It says, for example.Unable to connect to The value of the stores that would sell alcohol can be higher if the bill became a law, and it remains in the form of an increase in power. Most shops have plenty of shopping space, as well as the expense of workers may not have to be increased largely if the prescribed product was to be added to the stores used for goods. This is probably where we're talking about big shops in the capital area. We can imagine that shopping would immediately jump on this and increase access to it, and even large stores would be open 24 hours a day. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir got into the peer pressure. We'll see when we get into major business chains in Reykjavík that there's young kids working on it. We are not going to lower the drinking age of the bill, but we would clearly have certain peer pressure to do so. This could be a little difficult. Again, I quote the results of the responsibilities: ▪ Most studies suggest that there is a direct link between an increase in alcohol consumption and public health problems and social problems. - It's all at the same well. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - An increase in violence, drunk driving, and crime are some of the social problems that result from the increase in alcohol consumption. I think that while we set down a tax that is supposed to be under way in these matters, it will not be able to control the problems that would increase in society and the expense of society, if it did. Then I further quote the miseries: Since alcohol consumption is a major cost to society, it is shown that the value of alcohol consumption is about 50 billion a year and that the cost of alcohol consumption is increased by about 10 to520 billion when premature deaths are also taken into account. Road deaths of 48% of which 28% are directly related to alcohol or alcohol may be attributed to drunk or substance abuse. This is a study that was conducted in those areas. The response of consumers to changes in alcohol prices is reported to be similar between countries, the increase in prices, the decrease in consumption rate, and the duration of increase in prices rather than shorter, which is important in human health. By means of the bill, we increase access, increase competition, lower prices, and so we will face bigger problems. Finally, the project states: The benefits of drinking alcohol have been greatly improved in Iceland, and thanks to good preemptive activity, the drinking of Icelanders is lower than in other European countries. When drinking alcohol is compared in Iceland and the rest of the North countries, it is the lowest country in this country when youths use alcohol as an example. The prophylaxiss that give the best experience and the most practical ways to reduce the damage to alcohol are high prices, control of bioavailability, advertising beans, high age limit and shorter opening time. ◯ If that is the case, we will be adding to the problem. I think we'd be back in a circle and we'd have to deal with it. I think it's important that this bill don't go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's talk. It presents a number of factors that are important and important to keep in mind. One of the things she said a little - but maybe not enough for my taste and that's why I'd like to ask her why. A senator only into it - this is with the drinking of young people, perhaps especially in view of the progress in reducing the drinking of children and young people in Iceland. Although I'm not very old, I can remember a time when there was a major news item in the world media that Icelandic youths would be eager to drink alcohol and slags around the streets and public squares for that reason. I remember that when I went as an exchange student to the United States in 1981, I was specifically asked about this subject. This was what people in the Middlewestern United States remembered especially in Iceland at that time. Of course it was a bit insulting. What I want is what I want. A senator to discuss just with me is: Does the senator think we could get back into that position? Or does the senator believe that such a turning point has occurred in a modern society since this situation was that such a situation could never arise, so it would be okay just to go that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u80	A respectable president. I think we're going back a few years on prevention here. We have worked hard to prevent and can be sure that 30 years ago, it would not necessarily take so much notice that even the 10th grade trip had been marked by such a small drink. The fact that some drunk in this regard failed to break down the news of a settlement. But now I think that would be welcome. I remember kids who traveled to Denmark to the 10th grade, and they were amazed to see that young people of their age had beer in their hand, and that would only be normal. Even during bar mitzvahs in Denmark, barchildren have beer, sometimes feeling that beer bottles are specifically marked by the barnacles. But that is cultural differences, and we have seen that culture change in recent decades. I can only imagine that increasing the availability of young people would cause us to take steps back in these matters, but I think that's just any product. Alcohol is not necessarily the same as anything else. If we increase access, we increase the consumption rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to introduce to the second person just what she mentioned in her talk with the country's settlement and this national wind that has sometimes been tried, not just on this matter, but on many other subjects. I thought it was interesting to hear what happened. For example, a member of the council speaks of the fact that, of course, a bill like this would not change anything about the status of those in the more scattered regions. No one's about to start a liquor store like that. in the ark of Microbourn, or even in even smaller places. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is it even likely to increase its availability in smaller places? And especially then, if the senator would leave this discussion, he might likely find that the choice of goods would be the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u82	A respectable president. I think it'll be out, if this bill succeeds, that the product selection of my positions will be reduced. It's just like with other products, we have less access to them to form on the ice. But there are many good shops that support culture. The liquor store has good products, but in other stores, products are usually limited because the market is smaller. I can't imagine that there's going to be anything different in these matters, any more than, for example. wearing jeans or cheese selection at the Sams.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the fine talk she gave earlier. She had a lot of places, and she covered a lot of things that say in this bill, and this report, and so on. I'll take one sentence as a dog. A senator said, "We're seeing beyond choice and price. " But when the entire market in Iceland was released a few years ago, if I remember correctly, alcohol prices would be raised by a total price of about 10 to 12 percent. We've said it's preferable to increase alcohol prices, but in that case we were talking about the increase not going into the state funds, it went into the entire pocket. We're talking about a rise in prices, because prices will very clearly rise, this bill will be that the law, which could be good, but in the same way that rise won't go to the state funds, she'll go to the grocery distribution stores in Iceland. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether she wanted to agree with what is said here on terms of greater selection and lower prices, whether she agrees with this, and if she feels that this is likely to work out, if the bill becomes legal, that we get exactly that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u84	A respectable president. I think the objective of this transporter bill is to increase bioavailability and increase competition. The movers believe the price will be lowered. If the competition becomes more competitive, the shopping business will become more competitive, so that I can imagine that this is the goal. I think that can be the case. Although more charges will be paid, as mentioned in the bill, I think they may be. The difference that has come to the state then goes to the market, that may not be the main point, but I think a decrease in watch that might be -- I'm afraid of it - would increase the availability of high prices in the community. I can't quite say, but I'm based on economic ideology that this will be the result. I talked mainly about increased bioavailability and lower prices. The choice might increase in some large shops in Reykjavík, but it would not be in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Because she mentioned the region, and she knows the natural aspects of it, I'd like to ask if it is likely that a private person would install a liquor sale, e.g. in Patrekjörður, Parliament, or Bolungarvík, where 100 types of alcohol would be available in the invitations, such as the OntVR currently has minimum value. I ask if the change, like the one suggested here, would likely increase the selection in scattered areas and improve the service to those living east of the Old Sea and above the consonants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u86	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about the provisional and bioavailability in the country. TVR has branches in Hólmavík, as well as in Icesafjordur, Patrekjörður, and even more locations in the West, I can't remember, but it's in Burgury Valley. It may be the best choice for Iceland where the market is the largest. I can't see that the store at Patrekaut would have the product selection available at the ITVR branch there. I can't see that men would make an effort to do that. You can also enter ATSVR at Isafandi and order alcohol that is not available until you have a TVR in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I discussed the peer pressure that may come out of the country and get shops. We have young people at work, and I would like to go straight from now on to taking what was being discussed. TVR is not motivated by profit, and although it gives us considerable money in the box, it is not the goal of ATVR. I'm worried that this motivation will be deactivated right now if the bill succeeds, if we're going to take it out to the general grocery store because we're, of course, going to a major market manager in that area. We have also heard that the chains have already provided specific items for sale. This bill is, in my opinion, first and last time, worked on the terms of the store. I'm very opposed to this approach, as I think the country and the ticket know, so many talks I've been giving on the subject. It is also one thing to realize that going into a grocery store is different, whether people are vulnerable or not. And this with the increase, 25% off of this beer, the soda beer today or something, there's so much that the store does. Why should she behave differently? I ask the senator if she agrees with me in that there is no reason to believe that the store will act differently with this product when it comes to trying to sell as much as possible. At least it feels like me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u88	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and thank you for your answer. I think the peer pressure and the economics will be in charge. Mammon'view of the matter is not unusual, nor is it surprising that shoprs try to improve their interests. It's just a business like any other. I think it's really important that we manage this a little bit. Perhaps that's what transporters are thinking, that we're always premeditated, that we can't go too far in it, and that they're making a little money for it in this bill. I think it applies exactly in certain matters, as maybe this. I think we need to be very careful, and it's really important that we're a little leading and that we don't open too much. I think the bioavailability, although limited, is sufficient. We can go to ATVR, we can go to a restaurant, whether it has groceries or anything else, and we can buy alcohol with food or in a bar. I think the bioavailability is adequate at this time and is not inhibited. I remember a time when alcohol was ordered with the mail. Then people may have ordered a little more than they thought they were drinking, and they were supposed to have enough for the next weekend too, but when they brought the mail, they were often finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u89	Mr. President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. When alcohol is available, taking it is easier. There's just so much in this, too, so I'll keep on doing what I was talking about earlier, i.e. The big markets that control these chains and doses into the stores. We who live in the scattered regions know that even the same chain is not available between 15 - minute driving points. The little party may have to buy from the big one. It is the law that continues to rule. I think of a lot of messages in this; the thing about the advertisements, the thing about the consequences, the thing about the younger people. There were 1,100 advertisements at the parents'club. We're the checkpoint. We need to work on it even more. Here, for example. Do not consider the factors involved. You always ask, "Why do things that have worked well? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u90	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer, man. Senator. I think we should just have the guide we've had in our work on many matters, especially on the welfare committee, that's prevention and People's Health. If we pick up those glasses and watch the bill, I think we should turn it down. We need to think this through. At the beginning, let the end look, and I think it's very important that we do so in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u91	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I am sorry for special amateurs who have brought up this bill and shared in the discussion with us. I don't like it. In my first talk, in 1st. I spoke most of human health from a bill like this, but in this speech, I'd rather talk about the marketkeeper. Yet, let me start by saying that there is, in fact, one paragraph in the paper with the bill that I agree with. On page 18. 6 says, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ Alcohol abuse is harmful. It is harmful to the person who has such a drug addiction and to the ill effects of his family and family. At the same time, there are costs of society because of excessive and illegal consumption of alcohol. That's what I can think of. In fact, the next sentence after which says: The most effective way to reduce alcohol abuse is through prevention, education, and treatment. That's where I agree, too. And I can honestly say that if all articles other than those articles involved in raising contributions to public health about alcohol, i.e. Preservation and public health, they'd be wiped out, I'd agree to this bill immediately. The good guys. Also included in the report that includes alcohol culture, alcohol consumption, and all: In recent years and decades the availability of alcohol has increased, and the sales of the state with alcohol has increased dramatically. This is true, but in part, because the country had post offices for alcohol. The post office has now been shut down in many parts of the country, but there are alcohol stores. Here in the capital area, the number of liquor stores has nearly not increased in the last 101⁄220 years if I don't do it wrong. One of them had been closed; it was re-opened, so the net effect was perhaps zero. But the point is that the carriers of this bill and the main amateurs are interested in the pursuit of alcohol, i.e. Hagah's shopping chain. It can be seen that the latter was the second time when this case was presented, there were three positive comments. They came from a business agency, from the local trades I think is now known as the Organization of Business Life and Högs. There were three positive comments of about 50. And what has happened? They think that by putting alcohol into special stores and not supermarkets in themselves, they are not promoting the supermarket. It's natural, because it already has a store chain of Hagar, through its company of resources, a commission for dozens of wines found in the government's liquor and tobacco trade. What people are thinking with this bill is naturally building for the merchants of the country. And there is no reason to hide in that material. They're just supposed to come out right and say, "That's what we're going to do. People would do well to be honest in this regard. I'm running out of time, and I'm probably gonna have to wait for the next discussion, i.e. 2. Um... to get back to. But I'd like to say again, the only purpose of this bill is to increase the road to trade in the country. I put it this way in my first speech, and I'm going to take it back here, that people can exploit other people's evils, because that's what they're talking about in this bill. The consumption will increase to 11 gallons per person of pure alcohol per year if this becomes legal. This will lead to unforeseen consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. As he himself mentioned, he did not penetrate everything he wanted to talk about in his talk, so I'm going to ask him about a point he mentioned in his previous reply. I hope he respects me because I'm not exactly quoting the speech because I think it's important for him to understand the points the senator correctly mentioned earlier, i.e. The experience of that when we allowed the beer. Like a lot of other guys. I've been drinking beer all along, and there's nothing to talk about anymore. But I'd like to hear a little more talk about it because he's mentioned numbers in that connection, how much is it likely that the consumption will be increased if the bill becomes legal. I'd like to know if he has more to do with it than some smart gig, as the kids would say, because it's very important. How important it is that members of Parliament discern the possible consequences of such legal procedures and the effects on human health and general health in the country!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm very kind to review how the numbers I've put out have come to me. Swedish health authorities prepared a model for what would happen if they went back to an experiment, as had been done before, and began selling alcohol at grocery stores and/or special stores outside the alcohol monopoly. The increase in consumption, according to the accordion, is fine with the experience we have, i.e. the increase in experience since the beer was allowed in 1989. I couldn't agree more. A senator says that we will not change our time. After 30 years of consuming beer, we do not begin to ban beer. We won't. But let us learn from experience. We have this experience, we know what has happened since 1988 to this day. We can tell ourselves that if we take this further step, we'll take the road I mentioned earlier, we'll go to 11 gallons of pure alcohol per year on a man, which is the same thing Danir, the British and the Germans are using. I mentioned it in my first talk in this round, that I read in the previous article in Politiken, Denmark, saying that the 1/5 people of Copenhagen did not fumble, by permission of presidents, every day because of alcohol consumption. There we were not talking about what we use in our daily speech alcoholics, which include 200,000 of this million people living in Copenhagen, who do not fumble in the community every day because of alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u94	Mr. President. I'll try to be tight in my style. I'd like to be with you later, but only to discuss this public health friendship. A senator came in. The Senator spoke of two articles in the bill that refer to raising funds for public health, if I recall correctly. I'd like to ask the senator, " Would it not be easier for well - meaning members of the council to agree on such a subject? ' It would not be a major matter to make up extra contributions to public health because if this was done, the price of alcohol would likely increase slightly accordingly. And thereby achieving goals as at least Me and what. A senator agrees that alcohol consumption is desirable in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u95	V.E.G. President. I completely declare myself agree with what. A senator in this regard. To be honest, I feel paradoxed by planning to increase the income of a liquor store by increasing the number of distributors. I testify again to the last contributions of this case, where the Iceland Business Council said that it was not about to pay twice a month as does the ATVR. It was meant to do just as with the merit tax, to pay due every two months. Just that would put a small dent in the government's budget, so I say: Let's just put a public health fee on alcohol, let the NTVR collect it, just as it collects the liquor, and give it back twice a month, like the alcohol charge. We'd be just fine with prevention and all that. You can't help because there's already been a huge increase in alcohol consumption in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u96	Mr. President. Hv. One senator mentioned that there was a lack and lack of any of the supporters of this discussion. Now I'm not, to be honest, I don't know what I'm thinking about it, I think I'm generally rather positive. But the reason I've been missing the discussion so far is mainly because the discussion's been going on at least 30 years. A discussion of this began about the year 2000, no, 1996, something about it, so I think that at this point all the friends are over, and I have not found much good in spending the Senate's time in making my own particular opinion of this. This is a matter that comes back and forth because people want to deal with it, and it is, of course, a matter of great importance somewhere in the community. But in a year and a half, this is an opportunity for trouble somehow. Councilmen showing where they stand in politics, whether they are conservative or liberal, or what and exactly where they want to be. That's just the best part. But is it not possible to do this in some more efficient way, perhaps simply by giving the matter a vote? I suspect that, without me knowing it, the case would be taken off if it went to vote right now. However, it does not necessarily have to do with the bad issue, but it is only that we see a little in the composition of the council in other matters that may not be appreciated. Councilmen. I just wanted to come here and explain why I've been missing, because it's the truth to say it's a little boring, i.e. This discussion. I think we can use our time better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u97	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to be involved. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr in the discussion. He says all friends have come forward. Yes, it is. There have also been many times before that the majority of the people are opposed to this and to comparable matters. Yet it comes up here over and over again like a zombie. This is because there is so much power behind it - the commercial power behind it. But as I have been able to stand with the nation, I have had the custom of my being a member of Congress. I'm going to be there with the nation in this case, too, because it's more than part of a survey by survey, by shock, against the fact that alcohol will be sold in special stores or in supermarkets outside the NTVR. I agree with that viewpoint, and I've explained it for both public health and market reasons. Then I can add that we are referring to the problems of alcohol consumption, which will follow this bill's approval to the future. We are putting it on our children and grandchildren, first of all, that they are finding it harder to abstain from alcohol because it will become more available, and second, we are laying on their loads of health problems that will arise in the future with the bill agreed. In the 30 years since the release of beer, we have experienced an illness that we had not previously experienced. Cirrhosis was hardly available here, pancreatitis has increased dramatically, 20 Sore throat cancer to the anus. This is what we're dealing with now, and we'll wrestle even more if we accept the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u98	Mr. President. I think it's safe to say that all members of Congress are working on what they feel to be the interests of the nation each time and to be on the side of the nation. That's it. When Prohibition of the Prohibition was imposed on 1933, 57.7% agreed and 42.3% were opposed. It may not have been much then. But this time the people's rulers'understanding that perhaps it would be all right to trust the common people. I think it's a really nice idea to trust the public. We haven't talked much about chocolate bans, but we all know that excessive consumption of chocolate is not necessarily good. In this like other things, I lean a little in a liberal direction... well, you can try eating too much chocolate and see. [[Chocolate isn't a drug.]] But there is reason to trust the common people. In any case, I think we should try to trust ourselves for giving the case a vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u99	V.E.G. President. I am glad to hear it. In 1933, a senator mentioned because there was no trust in the nation in which the rulers of the time were picking up liquor sales in Iceland again, they wanted to sell salt fish. It was just that simple. There were simply market reasons why portents wanted to open for porttens to sell salt fish to Spain and Portugal. Then there was no public health or any confidence in the nation that caused it, not at all. But yes, of course, to trust the nation, much, but still, I've said it before and still say it - I may be conservative. I'm against asbest use. I want you to buckle up, I'm on it, it's supposed to be. I want kids in a child's chair. I like people to know, I just admit it right away. And after all that experience, and after all that has been told us in reviews, this case cannot be approved. Because of what? A senator mentioned chocolate, I don't know of anyone who's become violent about eating chocolate, and I don't know anyone who's driven a car that's not so bad after eating chocolate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. That's exactly what I was going to say to my friend and partner. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy: There are a lot of things that are boring. It doesn't seem like all of them, whether they happen over and over or it's starting to happen for the first time. It's just like it is. It is very dangerous to compare this to something else, as it was here. It doesn't really look anything like it. When I read for the first time when we were discussing this case how destructive alcohol is, it's far more damaging than, for example. heroin, I was surprised by the study that has taken place on such drugs. But all of them are dangerous if they are overindulged. I just wanted to go on with my public health. Of course, there is a shift in this bill compared to previous primes. Perhaps you could suggest that the case be dismissed, except for what we would confess. G., everything else would just be thrown away. It speaks of a public health fund taking special emphasis on the study of alcohol, a prevention project in the field of alcohol protection in the coming years. I think it's good, away from this bill. That would be the only thing I could do at least it was approved because, like, we took out. Councilmen remember, even though they made a change, a comparable amount of money should flow in there. It is this by evaluating the people's will and finding out who he is. Hv. A senator noted that many surveys have been repeated over the years that this is not a wish. But then there's the moral factor, this individual freedom. Is it human right to be free from the government's interference with selling alcohol? Are we compromising some of our abnormally negative freedom or freedom? Maybe what. A senator asked me a little about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u101	V.E.G. President. It has been said in this discussion, of the few members of the panel who have been in the discussion, that we who are opposed are these people who do not want to do anything to other people. I would like to say, however, that I have the word of good men who have gone in the way of heavy abuse of alcohol that humans in such a situation always get drunk, no matter what. I don't know anything to do with alcohol, but we've got open shops in almost every urban company in Iceland for quite a few hours. Most of the time is probably ten hours a day, if I remember correctly, except on Saturdays, maybe eight, not on Sundays. There are thousands of restaurants where we may be able to drink alcohol at a time. 11 in the morning until then. 3 at night if we want, all year round, to take proben, every day of the week, and even at Christmas. It may be just over the night of Christmas, which is not access to alcohol. If it's not enough, I don't know what people want to do. Is that only 24/7? Do people want to sell alcohol at the stores that are already open here, with the equivalent cost of 24 hours a day all year round? Is that sufficient? I don't want to start talking about the Morfish contest, but I think it's somehow that kind of a argument. There's no sound reason to argue. If it's fate, I'll just accept it and be happy and proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u102	Mr. President. You see, that's what I noticed in a case. A senator who used to be here before me, wondering what. A senator, that it would be a little boring. But then it has to do with identifying us as members of Congress. A little conservative? I don't know. Are we smart? At least it can be done. Truly, like what's happened. In his talk about who were sent in favorable reviews, the senator mentioned that these reviews were merely substantiated by commercial arguments. It was not an attempt to minimize all the negative effects of medical science. I think it's a little important. There is no evidence that medical science, the World Health Organization, or all these doctors are just wrong. No one has said that. It's just a business show that's being served. That's why I've said that I don't quite understand why they're trying to change an arrangement that's been incredibly good for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u103	V.E.G. President. In America, people like to say, "If that's okay, don't fix it." Reports published by the World Health Organization (WHO) are encouraged to consider the example of Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland and to sell alcohol only to the State monopolis or private rights stores. The World Health Organization reports: There are no others who have achieved similar results in reducing the evil that alcohol may bring. Since the matter is being said to be boring, if it's boring to try to avoid the growth of cancer here, that heart disease grows up here, that cirrhosis will grow, I'll just keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u104	Mr. President. When you burn too much for some sort of thing, it's probably never too often. I quoted earlier in a book entitled The Health of Populations: Beyond Medicine, written not long ago by Dr. Jack James, professor and psychologist. In general, he deals with health care and about the cost of health care, as well as with whether it is possible to look at things from different viewpoints. For example, he takes as an example an accident and what causes it, saying, by permission of a president: We need to examine the factors that cause the accidents. Clearly, only a fraction of an accident is attributable to physiological factors. Almost every accident is caused by such behavior as speeding, driving drunk driving, using cell phones, not wearing the seat belt, fatigue, and so on. He says it is easy to influence these factors by law. I thought it was interesting to read it. I quoted my objection to what he says about comparing Sweden with Denmark. Of course, he looks at the financial resources we provide in this system and also talks about life - style diseases and other things. He is wondering if we all have the responsibility, and as I said earlier, it may well be on the shoulders of more people, such as. Your community, your community, your government. He is an example of smoking. Of course, we can decide to stop smoking, but then we are in a community that has made decisions based on what is going on around us. If a certain course of conduct is common, we are more likely to act in a comparable way. I took an example of the use of tobacco because we have achieved tremendous success in reducing it. How did we do that? We started by banning tobacco use in many places. We banned it. It is said that commands and prohibitions will move about below the earth or something, but it has not. It's reduced smoking. Tobacco must no longer be seen. Tobacco companies fought hard against these bans, as I said before, e.g. In Denmark and got her way there, but in Sweden, it totally worked out the way we did. The differences have been found in the fact that there are twice as many deaths due to lung disease in Denmark as in Sweden. It is believed that these changes are primarily the result of changes. When asked if we should sell alcohol at the grocery store, the professor agrees with us, who disagrees with us and says: ▪ If people want to make informed decisions on the subject based on research, it is a simple matter. Increased bioavailability of alcohol simply means more patients with e.g. cirrhosis and more domestic violence He noted that since more freedom was given in the United Kingdom, the incidence of cirrhosis was fourfold higher. It's actually the same view I had with tobacco. Of course, this is all on account of the store. How can we counter these scientific conclusions? In the law, it is so, as we've been through a series of times and were told just before, that we have all the access we need. What we may look forward to is that we have an opportunity to show initiative on a global scale by having a good access to alcohol, which is dependent on certain and reasonable limits of the arrangement we now have. It is known, and it will be no different for us, that if we relax these conditions, our health is more likely to become worse as well as social and financial conditions. It is also true for all, including those who do not drink alcohol. We should not forget those around those who drink too much alcohol. The best way to improve your health is to influence your behavior, and it also saves money in the medical system at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I'm in my own way around here, just like what I'm doing. A senator because we have an environment of health care in Iceland, and we have had tremendous success in alcohol therapy. Yet, at this point 600 people are regularly waiting for alcohol treatment. Are we going to add to that number? Now we are going to spend a lot of money building a new national hospital. Actually, it's in the wrong place, but let's leave it in the middle. Will we, in other words, contribute to the problems of hospitals and others by making it easier for us to drink? Because of what? A senator mentioned tobacco and how we changed tobacco sales for the past few years mentioned that we have just made an experiment here at the Council, which I expect to catch up with, i.e. to open for more sale at wave. We will see the consequences of that offset. It may well be that those who attend after 20 years will scold us and curse us in the sand and ashes for having done so. Therefore I say, and so have I also happened by reason of reason. A senator, that it is not a defence to impose such increased burdens on us, that we feel that we are aware of and are reasonably certain that there will be an increase in alcohol consumption, in our medical institutions. I want to ask you why. A senator will finally see if she agrees with me that we are not supposed to do so, i.e. to throw financial burdens into the future at our clinics and clinics. I'd also like to hear what's wrong. A senator has said about my teachings about whether we have taken the wrong step by allowing woe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I also had serious doubts about the electronic cigarettes and still have them. That is why I was pleased with the change that was made of a great deal of conflict, as we shall remember about the size of capsules, and my almighty God what it is now all called that I do not know how to mention. In turn, many people believe that this helps, while we see it, too, unfortunately, all too many young people use these things that have never been smoked. That's exactly what we're going to see in the future, where we're going to be led by the electronics. They had come here, but they had no cover, even though large quantities of them had been moved to the country. I agree with it. A senator says about the burden of the future. We agree that there is no products that cause as much damage as alcohol does. If we drop out of the arrangement we now have and take a liquor deal to a private person, that means that there is one who shepherds the profits while others carry this communityly cost. That's just what we're facing. There's nothing different. It is always the taxpayers who have to deal with the negative consequences of excessive alcohol consumption, who inevitably become involved in community service, in health, etc. ATTVR will bring us a profit. Although it is not the aim of ATSVR to achieve profit, it is such that the government's profit, which can then be used for this service, is the result we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u107	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I've been thinking about. Alcohol abuse is not a personal matter for those who abuse alcohol. He, or she, casteth a great shadow over all her surroundings, in every direction. That is also what we need to keep in mind, in my opinion. Not only are we pursuing those who are weak for alcohol or who want more freedom but we are also thinking of family unity. There's actually one thing I'd like to ask. A senator's concern is that the bill refers to improved wine culture, as if men were just eating red wine with a nice steak. True, many of them do not care if the steak is owned somewhere from an environment we don't really want to eat products, but they wash it out with good red wines. However, it seems that most restaurants and urban facilities are often filled all evenings, but they do not seem to reduce the weekends. They still seem to have a bad life. I'd like to ask you what. A senator may agree with me about this alleged wine culture and this alleged situation, improved the treatment of alcohol that has been talked about, especially after the beer, even though we know that domestic violence has multiplied, even though we know that there is still a person and someone else in the middle of the weekend. Does the senator believe that the increase in wine culture is valid?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. It is this freeness of speech that is constantly being talked about and about individual freedom and all that, when, how, and where to drink alcohol without taking into account the people around you. I'm on the same line as what? Senator. Those who manage alcohol are not particularly concerned about whether to use alcohol or not. Hence, those on the edge of the valley are very concerned and do so in their heads so that they do not get caught up with anyone or anyone. But this is not just the one who drinks alcohol. This, of course, applies to those around him. Again, I think it's very important that we ponder this out from that point of view. It is not only about the freedom of the one who wants to use alcohol but also about the freedom of those around it. It's as important, and then I'm not just talking about children. I'm also talking about families or other people around you. We are well - acquainted with examples of those who drink alcohol excessively but who show up at work, are discouraged, and are not entirely self - sufficient. Also, there are those who do not qualify as alcoholics but still have Monday hamsters. It also costs the community enormous money, companies, and health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u109	A respectable president. It's fine, but it's an old-fashioned debate here in the audience. As we have seen, similar cases have been presented several times before. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned earlier, from different sides of the world, an decades old story of alcohol was on the outside. Now we're dealing with free sales of alcohol at a special grocery store. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir Whether and what she thinks is new in this matter as it is presented today and whether it is for some benefit from what was before. I know why. A senator who is formerly familiar with matters received a very thorough discussion in the Hall of Congress at the time. Some of the issues are that they need time to develop in the Generals, and this is not the case. The aim of legislation should be the public's primary objective, perhaps to address certain uncertainty issues regarding legislation and such. We now have an excellent system for selling alcohol, and we have an excellent access, we have a fine service. Is there anything in this case as if it is now submitted that would make it more accessable, that services to the population, I mean around the country, would improve, and that the potential price of the product would be reduced to consumers? And if we just look at the consumer's point of view, are there any advantages to the case as it is now suggested by the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The only thing I see positive about this bill from the last time it's 20. where there is a requirement for public health, the study of alcohol as well as preemptive work in the field of alcohol protection should be specifically emphasized. I don't think there's anything else that's good in this case, that it's been trying to expand something in every way. An attempt to permit advertising is being made, but with some limitations, and it is far beyond what we have been doing. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson also asked about the cow's wall, to drink with food, and so on, the moor about it, and the oar. A senator now asks me about a reduced price or an improved selection and something like that. As we have seen, this is by no means applicable to the whole country. I think there's no such thing as it's possible that some stores in the big capital area or supermarkets, where they could offer some particular product at a lower price on some sort of offer. But in general, I think prices would go up. We know this in the country during the change in shops.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Thus, the senator's conclusion is that services to the inhabitants of the country are likely to get worse and may increase. The results of increased bioavailability have now been reasoned in the discussion. Research shows that increasing access to alcohol and the increased level of alcohol in stores will lead to increased consumption. Of course, we cannot control individual consumption. Each one must decide whether he drinks wine or wine like that or the other wine and how much wine each time. However, studies show that increased bioavailability and exhibiting results in increased consumption. We also know that increasing alcohol consumption causes health damage, increased mortality, and increased disease, apart from often all kinds of social consequences caused by increased alcohol consumption and excessive consumption. It all looks like it's all at the same well. The benefits of changing the system are very few, if any. There are countless and serious advantages, rising costs for the health - care, law enforcement, and so forth, in alcohol treatments and what it all is called. Obviously, the store's goods for this and possibly for those who design and sell advertisements and other things. So I would like to ask the senator: " Does she agree with me on this? Are there any benefits to changing the current system, and who are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-06-100.u112	Mr. President. Now is the time for our wedding day, and this matter is certainly not over. But I agree with the senator, there is nothing on the bill that will improve the situation from what it is today. That's why we may stand here year after year, a council after year, talking highly about it. I certainly hope once again that the matter will not be realized.
