ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u1	The president wants to suggest that at the lunch meeting of the Presidency Committee, it was agreed to drop from the previous scheduled work plan that on February 27 Wednesday be named and decided to have a meeting, as originally planned. This is reflected in the current meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? - If not, she'll be approved without a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u3	Mr. President. The economic breakdown situation was unprecedented, as we know. The collapse of the Icelandic bank is one of the largest bankruptcys in the world, and the unprecedented situation called for new and hence unconventional solutions. How successful it is that solutions become recognized in the international context. African petals are the remnant of waxing trades that became more frequent in 2005-2008. By the end of the season, the demurrections had gathered on few hands, and the hedge funds were buying these assets at great discounts, financial resources in government bonds, and thus pledged on the economic benefits of Iceland, and overgrowth with other countries. When the oceans were introduced, there were a double currency market, one of which had been written, the Federal Bank gangs, the product and services trade, and the population of the population, significantly lower than the registered march and reflected deportations, which were a special class of possessions in the seas. A wide variety of views were found on emissions of capital syrup. In time, a transnational conspiracy to approach the matter was a universal one. This means that the solution takes into account all those who were closed and are behind the head rather than solving matters of the individual person or group without regard for others. This proved to be a successful approach, a major matter of political solidarity, and a correct decision to make. This vital agreement was then ignored when the Independence Party received the throne of the government and now the last left green. Stability was the theme of working on the emissions of capital syrup, the removal of seas without disrupting economic stability and the result being consistent with the international commitments of the country. It's the politicians making decisions. A clear vision is essential to success. A clear message of going as far as possible within the scope of sovereignty and international commitments would be important in emissions. Without this, it would not have been possible to achieve good results. Mr. President. How sad it is that the independent party government, the forwarding party, and the left greens do not maintain this clear message against the hedge funds that have been in vain with the Icelandic government and even try to influence elections in the sovereign state! I want to finally only mention that it is important that we know who is behind this hedge fund, who is behind the 84 billion that stands to take out of the country. If we study, for example. A few things I don't think a lot of people think about how many people are thinking, and especially not the highest. Prime Minister. This company is known for women's very difficult skills. The executives and executives of the company have been accused of sexual harassment with employees and on the Internet many of the women's stories about how employees treated them. You ask: Is this company to be used by the government to take a dollar out of the country on a much higher level? It is necessary to know who is behind these companies that are not connected on the land. Loomis Sayles's offer was rejected by the Secret Bank, just as the company's funds did when they did not participate in a national exchange at the sale of the bank when the owners of such crowns offered to sell there at the following 190 bucks. For every euro. Clearly, the funds have benefited from this decision. The scope of an African dollar totals 84 billion or 3% of domestic product, which makes up Loomir Sayles's money as the owners of at least 42% of all those crowns. This company wants the Icelandic government to cooperate with and to get as much out of the Icelandic public as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u4	Mr. President. The members of the Central Party have been discussing this matter for some time. I've tried to understand what the problem is. I wanted to ask you what. A senator will see if he can explain it to me more. I believe the Central Party is the sponsor of the free flow capital between countries, which is one of our fundamental commitments in cooperation with the European Economic Area. Somehow I feel that the core of the Middle Party's lawsuit is that the owners of these Africans are bad people, that's our main problem, and that we somehow have to fail. Hv. A senator noted that the fundamental theme of the law of emergency, in the schedule for execution, had been to respect our international commitments, while also making sure that national stability at home for which the delinquency would not have a negative impact. I think it's quite possible that the country's foreign position is the best we've ever met, and no particular harm to see before us as to taking what is likely to be part of our final steps in the final delinquency and letting out the capitals that have been committed here in the past decade or so. What's the problem, what's the problem? A senator, and how will the middle party deal with it? I'd like to hear that. The problem cannot be confined to the fact that the owners of the Off-counters are not well pleased by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for the answer. Hv. A senator spoke of the country's place as being so good. I think that's what I'm talking about. A candidate said that there is a significant point in this discussion, that it is quite clear that Iceland's success has again been overrated, as it were, in 2005◯ 2008, and that it is not a matter to give up much money - and this knows why. A senator - who had already been told to come - should not be able to make money on his own. In particular, it is strange in the context of the discussion of the potential economic declines and strikes. Don't these amounts really matter? 12 billion doesn't matter? It'd be nice to have a good time. A senator answered that question. It was suggested that everyone go out on the same gang. In 2016, when the hedge funds were offered the contracts of this material, it was said that those who did not walk to the counter could later come to that table at the same level. But that was not the case. That is exactly the point. It is about our credibility as a nation to have yielded in this way. By doing so, the hedge fund went to the track and the prizes are being rewarded for the worst. That's not what we Middle-class people think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u6	Mr. President. It seems simple to me that the Central Party wants to take some form of possession on the money of these people that I think are all kinds of people. In some cases it is a hedge fund, as mentioned earlier, but it also includes individuals who have been locked up here since they were placed in 2008. This issue has to do with our credibility toward foreign investment. There is no Western State with self - respect that resorts to using the legislature to make some kind of possession of foreign investors in its jurisdiction when there is no need. True, we used our rich emergency rights after a collapse with the sentence of the emergency songs and with our existing stability agreements because national interests were at stake. It was respected. It passed the lawsuits that were appealed to because of such cases. It's a matter of choice. The members of the Central Party are 14 hours of extraordinary, unprecedented nonsense about something that would never be passed on to courts. In fact, the way the Central Party is going to use itself in a way that is not the way it is supposed to complete a normal discharge and allow the financial resources that have been bound in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just have to say, "What?" A senator is not sufficiently informed on this matter. It has been tested in courts, and the hedge funds lost them. This knows why. Senator. So we have every right to argue that people are going out on the same team as others. It doesn't have to do with our credibility abroad, some negative credibility. It has much more to do with the credibility that we stand on our rights. We have the perfect right to stand on him. In most cases, the hedge fund is that it merges with nothing. There may be someone else in between who own some money. But the hedge fund will try everything, and we will see when they try to influence the election in this country that they really don't care about anything that's named morality. This knows why. A senator and I don't understand why he's worried about our credibility. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u8	President. I was going to make a comment to a talk. A senator, as well as a sticking to it, will only change the basis for an amazing declaration. paritaprevir Today, the village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who seemed to believe that if the government adhered to the plan set up in 2015, it would involve some form of possession. In view of the urgency of the occasion, that statement was striking. A senator to view all that has been done up to this point and gave hundreds of billions of dollars and a great economic reversal has involved his own research. I can't help but ask what. Senator... [[The president calls.]] [[The president brings attention to the problem. A senator is opposed to the speech of the 3rd. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! (SDG: I realize that.) I must direct my words to him. Hv. 7. Smoke. n. doesn't have a chance to answer questions from what happened. Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u9	I realize that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u10	I must direct my words to him. Hv. 7. Reykv.. n. doesn't have a chance to answer questions from what happened. Senator.) President. It was indicated in the introduction to this counter that I wanted to ask him why. A senator in his speech, but he must take into account the exchange of words presented here and the amazing declaration of the son of Þorsteinn Víglundsson because of its appeal. A senator was talking about. So I ask, "Let's interpret a word. " A candidate in his talk earlier as a support or understanding of matters. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson described all these operations as taking part in some form of possession?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and agrees with him that there is no real possession education here and that it has never been. It was being coordinated, and the government was political in this respect, so the releases were successful there to make a government exchange. First, a yielding begins under the Independence Party and then the leadership of the left green. I'm just saying right now and waiting for what? Senators remember that I felt that way in a talk. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Simon's son, as if he had certain sympathy for the hedges. I can't agree with that at all. Let's just review the campaign, how they tried to influence the election here in the country, a sovereign state, in a totally transparent way. There was no secret to anything. At the same time, we will find that e.g. Russia has been accused of meddling in Finland, the Netherlands, Germany, the United States, but they try to hide it as much as they can. However, this began to spread propaganda against the government and especially at the time of prime minister, Sigmundi Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the hedge fund was very afraid that he would remain prime minister. When it failed, a full - page ad was published in the morning paper that undoubtedly one of you knows where it was said that there was corruption in the Penitentiary, and one of the employees was there. name specified separately. These are practices that are not due to be carried out in a democracy, and of course they were to be fully investigated. Showing some mercy to these people and having some sympathy for them, I can never sign, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u12	President. Because of what? A senator refers to the efforts of these parties to influence the Icelandic General elections. It was when people saw that the current course of action could be reached. So important were these cases and the achieving of government policy change in the matter that they were prepared to promote propaganda in the concierge of elections in an unprecedented way. Then there must be some questions about whether this propaganda has worked. That's at least It is clear that the current policy and the bill we address here are much more compatible with what these parties want than with what was already in force with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u13	Mr. President. Sadly, this propaganda of the hedge fund was successful. We now see that they have really won, and they are winners, and it will be complete, as it were, this bill we are discussing will be approved. There is also something else that needs to be discussed and that has not been adequately discussed in my opinion, i.e. how this bill works, if it's the law, it's the way it works. The report says that it will not affect the crew of the crown, but the Sulleyman will grab in there, but there is no lack of rationality. I believe it is of utmost importance that representatives of the Federal Bank and those who have knowledge of the economic issues are subject to the committee and that if the order of the Crown falls, they will fully explain the dangers. [[The president calls.]] We know that. The loans will raise, the price will rise, and the inflation will go out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u14	A respectable president. It would be nice for members of the council sitting in the council hall to come up and explain why we should accept this. However, I pondered over things and raised questions that I don't know whether they are. A senator can explain that the answers have not been made to anyone who wants this matter to be accepted. But I think there's one minister in the hall, and thanks to the fact that there's a substitute minister of finance here and hopefully will enter the discussion and try to answer some of the questions. Among the questions that have been raised during the discussion by members of the Central Party is why it is a reward for the hedge fund or the owners of the crowns left behind, who did not act on what was started. Why is their prize being rewarded? Is it possible that they could be giving them billions of dollars by allowing them to benefit from waiting and waiting for them? Why was the plan not followed that was started? How might this affect the crew of the Crown? Doesn't that have any effect? Why, then, is that not logical in the committee opinion or in the bill itself? Why are there no caution words from the Secret Bank in the bill itself? Rather, it is only a review of the bill that was taken in consultation with the Secret Bank. What effect does this have on the current budget and on the coming ones? These are just a few of the many questions that have been raised, and no one has said so little to answer them. Here we go. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson to answer the question. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson. I challenge the senator to come up and give a speech so that we can ask him why we should accept the matter. Then he can reason, and we may find answers to many of the questions we have raised. Otherwise, it seems that the left groups are all in this, and then the ruling parties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. I think it's very important that a senator resists and his input into the discussion. It is noteworthy that during a discussion of matters that are up until the morning, the Central Party alone is concerned about the matter. I say like what? Senator: I challenge members of other political parties to enter the discussion. If this is such a good thing, why don't they come and argue? They must be able to do so. I find it interesting that a political party like the United States, which has given itself to being a particularly friendly worker in the country that's a good deal, does not worry about what happens when this figure, 84 billion bucks, goes abroad, they buy money, and he's left the country. It has a natural pull and puts pressure on the crown that will translate, as I have traced, that inflation is increasing, the loans of the people of the country are raising into all the economic uncertainty that now prevails, cold speeches, etc. It's a perfectly legitimate question, and you ask: Have, for example. Don't you worry about this? This is true because I have not heard any member of these political parties, and that is true of other political parties, coming up here, worrying about the matter. On the contrary, they seem to agree with it as if it were nothing and then face reality when the bill has become legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u16	President. This case was submitted December 14th, and it was given six or seven minutes. In effect, it was to be thrown through because the market could become agitated. Now on February 27, I wondered if markets have gone crazy during that period. I had to agree with the case tomorrow morning, if I knew it correctly, before February 26th, or it would be a fire and a bar. I don't know that markets are about freaking out or that everything went to a fire. Why are we pushing the matter through the council so quickly? Other questions have been raised and that are critical, e.g. When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson son, that there is no detailed information in the bill on how the kroner gangs are affected or in the currency market. I ask, " Why don't you try to determine how the worst effect or the best effect on the case can be? ' [[The president calls.]] There are no questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, and join him, there is no answer. The report claims that the bill does not come about by any means affecting the state of state funds. I'm pointing out that this claim can hardly stand because it's clear that there's going to be a yielding process, we just don't know how much. It affects the treasure of the world. All the items bought from abroad - this has an impact on government funds. How important it is that we get answers, some form of a stage of what we might expect the chandelier's gang to fall much! This, too, plays a significant role in financial planning. The Ministry of Economics recently introduced a financial committee that discussed risk factors in the budget. There was no mention of this aspect. However, this is a major risk factor that must be answered to who might be and how much and what could be the result. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u18	Mr. President. I believe that there is a reason for saying a few words about what I think is the core of this matter. People have asked: " Why is it a challenge to discuss this matter in a detailed way? It says, Mr. President, that there are 84 billion dollars, as shown in the bill's report, which is the postage of these so - called decrelications. After the collapse, African giants were a subject. I have here a public talk published by the government of Iceland and Iceland's Secret Bank called Losun capital crisis. This 2015 publication, published by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, explains in particular how specific aspects of the resolution would be fulfilled after the fall of the Offenses, as they have been called, are one of the factors. It is a very important point in this publication to discuss the way out of this African problem, as defined by the way he goes on a so - called auction route. It is very well stated in this publication that the process of going that way was laid with a very powerful and solid foundation. She was followed to a main policy and was very successful. There was a special adviser, a respected professor at Oxford University, who had previously been in the bank of England and the U.S. Bank for the Ministry of similar topics. This was a good job, and it was well handled. The question we are facing today, in the remaining 84 billion, calculated as 3% of the annual production in the country - at the time of the higher yield, he was about 15% of the annual production in the country - is this: Why is this marketd policy ousted? Why is it not being followed? Discussion that the action presented here was contrary to some legal policy or was not appropriate for foreign commitments at all because of this careful preparation and the experience presented there. So this may be one of the main questions on the subject: Why is this a turning point? This means that those who were the owners of these assets were made to earn it, in order to get them out of the country, to pay stress on the currency in such a business, and the way to that end was through the auction. So here we are talking about a substantial financial gain for the state's funds, for the Icelandic public, if that's what it's changing. This is the very essence of the matter. So here it is about Icelandic interests and, on the other hand, the trend that appears to be manifest in the currently existing plans, and it is naturally desirable for more people to take part in this discussion. I am pleased to express that the vice president of the Independence Party and High Secretary of finance are here for the discussion and is looking forward to its view and explanation of the questions raised. I would also find it very interesting to hear from the other administration categories, and it would also be interesting to hear from other groups of the government side, sharp. The members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u19	President. In answer to what? paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson, at what? Þórarinsson Birgir said that it was no longer necessary to keep these funds in the seas or on the other hand. It may be right not to be needed. But then you ask: How about an estimate of the financial needs of a government fund when we have at the same time seen members, even members of this party, members of the Parliament, reveries, increases in taxes, increases in hunting costs, and other ideas in order to make more money for the money of the state? At the same time, they feel that it is all right to yield billions, possibly tens of billions, depending, of course, on what is in accordance. Got it. A senator's ability to speak in this way, to suggest one day to increase his income, while at the same time giving attention to the funds that Iceland and the government have full control over today, if follow the plan set out at the beginning. A senator has carefully crossed the matter? Hv. A senator dealt with the core of the matter, i.e. the interests involved, the financial interests of the Icelandic people involved here. Again, questions arise: Why are these sources being indulged and given the possibility of paying billions or tens of billions of dollars? Why is that being done? Is it because we do not need it? We must easily be able to find money without raising taxes, without looking for new fish or other items. Then we must be able to find funds for road repair, nursing homes, senior citizens, disability, housing. There is no need for the ideas of people who are in this council hall but who have not spoken up when more money is received to the public or to the company.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I am truly sorry for the money. They may run at tens of billions of dollars. It has been suggested during the discussion that according to the progress of earlier transactions at auctions, this would be about a very significant amount of money playing. I'd like to mention in this discussion that I've used myself for a campaign in the care of the elderly, as if it were about to be a nursing home. In these areas there is a severe shortage, especially because people have taken the advantage of almost ever since collapse to use much of the elderly's provision fund to do otherwise than modern building and maintenance, using it for business. The bill I've been telling you about, and I'm in it now. A welfare committee, I presume, is expected to make the money available to the fund. The money we're talking about here would very simply make it, as they say, a land view of it. Hv. A senator asks: "Why do men have plans for abdication of substantial funds, important interests? " I also find it appropriate to ask: " Why does it seem that others who have the position to be in the government's position to do this just as seems to be a witness?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u21	President. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course it is, and of course it turns out we need all this money. We remember about 8 billion, 12 billion, 13 billion, 23 billion, or whatever it is that we can remember. We have enough work to put money on. Right away. Senators come up here - not why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson but members of the council who have come up here in counterargument - saying that this honors foreign investment, why don't they reason on their case? As far as I know, we've recently read that foreign people have increased their investments in fish farming in Iceland. Have not foreign people been investing in tourism in Iceland? I think there's something that needs to be reasoned with when you're throwing these things out. We've asked these questions, what's wrong, what makes it impossible to get on your feet in this matter and take advantage of the funds, e.g. for older citizens. You have wondered, " Is the modern labor movement completely out of the question, " Is it possible for billions of people to be destroyed? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u22	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator was to be careful to present irrational statements in order to form the investments of foreign parties. It is most natural to base a discussion on practical, reliable evidence from approved sources. I have to say on this occasion that I find it very strange to witness that some people choose to dissuade the efforts of a member of the Central Party in some way in order to care for normal interests in the interests of the Icelandic public. I do not consider such an attitude to be evidence that men have studied this matter completely. a few overdues to figure that out. In my speech, Mr. President, I sought to present the inner core of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. He raised this piece at the beginning of his talk, a folder prepared in 2015 for the release of capital waste and a plan for that road. There was much and wide agreement, and it worked very well. But then they took U-holes at a certain point, as we have often seen, and then things changed. Because the senator was waving that piece of paper and quoting, I too want to do it. It says in the beginning, with President's permission: ▪ Today is presented with a three - step step - by - step budget based on a comprehensive program for dealing with threats of stability. The public interests of the government are behind a whole range of government resistance programs. 1st Stability conditions and taxation of broken - down financial institutions. 3. Reinvestment in long-term bonds and currency contributions. 3. Increased domestic resources to foreign savings and investments. The release of capital accelerator will be carried out without a direct effect on the Icelandic gang. The release is an urgent solution with reference to administrative rights and the obligation of the government to protect Icelandic society's interests. I would like to ask a senator: Which of the three points, even more, that I mentioned are effective today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Perhaps we are on the long track of making financial work out of the collapse. The paper I had brought with me and have quoted, including yesterday's discussions, has a very good practice, and that it has been given to highly skilled experts. Here, too, it was through the Federal Bank, and probably more of the public institutions, and it has been followed by a major policy. We're talking about the final part of the African penitentiary, and we want to try to get answers to what has been left of the market, as is so carefully explained in this fine document. Although in the broad economic climate, the land has come a long way after the collapse, there are many wounds in Icelandic society. I think we should keep that in mind. The collapse caused great damage to the homes and businesses of the country. Some of what was done here on the part of the government during the first few years after a collapse may not have resulted in the loss of the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and who would like to mention one of these, the second time. The Senator got a lot of talk about landowners. In its simplest form, there are five groups who want to remove money when the seas are removed. There are Icelandic companies, persons, pension funds, high-rent creditors, and the restitutions of fallen financial institutions. The senator became a subject of Afghan owners and spoke of how this publication had been very familiar with how to solve the problem. Can the senator hit only on the big picture for a nation and council, so in the basic outline of what that solution was?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u26	Mr. President. I am glad that I have the opportunity to adopt the concept of urgency. A senator mentioned, the owners of an off-country. I'm going to say here that I don't care exactly who these owners are. And I don't care how they may be renovated. But what I care about is whether there's a principle here. Her name is the 90th rule. Let one pass over all. So it was suggested that there would be individuals - when I talk about men, I'm also talking about lawyers - to do something to get out of this financial crisis. That's how it got up. That was the thought behind the way that was chosen, the auction route, to undo this deportation problem. The absence of such questions now raises very serious questions. From the highest, I look forward to learning more. Minister in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He came on some things I'd rather talk to him about. This is the message that falls from the course that had been framed in 2015. It's really the setup, the spindle set, that was formulated in 2015. It went off well and worked very well, but then in the middle of 2016, people begin to disappear and make up for the continuation until now that you feel the stone is removed. What I want to ask you is why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson is about what he believes is the message that the Icelandic government is leaving the plan presented as final and inexplicable for the long future. Counts 'em out. A senator that may harm the interests of the people of the nation. A senator said that it is possible to obtain something for Icelandic interests that could not be achieved by other means?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. First of the results of the operation. I'm going to say, as we have seen, over and over again that there has been a lot of success in building an Icelandic economy. It is not too much to say that the ability to act with this well - thought - out and careful plan that is fundamental and that was established in its own time by the advice of the best men tell their story. Again, I come to see that this is a time to set aside something that must have to be counted as one of the major factors that support this program. So I come to a question. A senator has Icelanders, I think it's safe to say, has a reputation for standing on his own international level. Those who have battled with us and other such conflicts know this. I believe we have a good reputation here, which we must be willing to defend. We have great interest in international relations around the world, and it is important that people learn about Iceland when they think that there are people behind their country's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u29	President. First, I want to celebrate and thank you for sitting in the audience. The industrial minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir, who I believe is a successful minister of finance. I hope it's the highest. The secretary of finance merges in the discussion, trying to help us see what the government is doing with this bill. What is the solution to governments by leaving the direction that had been developed as part of the whole operation and was totally clear about how to implement it? I've heard from myself that some members of the council who may not have been in the discussion find this difficult. Although I'm going to discuss a few things directly related to it, such as the second privatization of banks, Arion's case, etc., as I declared last night or night, I'm going to use this speech to try to simplify it. This is a huge case, big business for society, but also much princely concern. I remember a similar discussion about how we were doing too much complex things that people may not fully understand how public welfare was being prepared for the successful disposal procedures, which were presented in 2015. In reality, however, the result was much more public interest and, in fact, an economic situation in a Icelandic community for the better. At the same time, both in their productions and when they were introduced, you heard an attitude, as it appeared at the otter. paritaprevir Happily, Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is going to respond to me later, saying that governments were in some way giving up property, a form of property. This involved a major difference in basic understanding. But the key to that, or one of them, one of the main reasons why it was never, not in any way, could be called a possessional course was that equality was being taken. The actions were presented in such a way that everyone would have to make a contribution so that any action that would turn out well for anyone. As a result, it was impossible to offer the possibility that those who so refused to participate in that action would be rewarded specifically, especially since those actions were not exactly a possession. This was action in which everyone voluntarily contributed so that action that everyone could take in would benefit from, unless, of course, the government shows up by paying the so - called desserts. The importance of preventing it was emphasized. Therefore, it is so much a princely matter that governments do not compromise their policy and were clear and punishable by those who were willing to contribute but who were not prepared to participate in the economic restoration. As I mentioned, this is also a major economic interest because, as was shown in Ásgeir Jónsson's report on economison and Hersir Sigurgeirsson, where they tried to evaluate the cost of the economic breakdown, if the Fendolman had only followed what was presented in the summer of 2009 on the deportations and had achieved the desired result, it would have yielded to 86 billion dollars. Of course, not all the amounts anymore - 319 billion at the beginning, the deportations. But there was one thing to be done. If this had been followed, the result in June 2016 would have been approximately 86 billion, according to this assessment. However, there are 2,930 billion people here. It is not a good thing to put a precise number on it, but it is clear that the economic sacrifice is significant, but it is upon the prince's sacrifice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u30	Mr. President. You're right next door. Of course, a senator considers the basics. The fact is, whether the Central Party is at odds with how the then government acted on the course set before prime minister. This was done or not, and men were offered the option to move them out at that moment, offering a measure of success, or waiting for them to be unsure, certainly. It would not be when they could be let out, and what success it would be, and that they would become more and less interestless while it was the option that was offered, and this group accepted. All our actions followed by the economic collapse were based on evidence of disaster. This would be an unprecedented situation in the national setting. It would be clear that we could not deal with the problems we were facing without having dramatic consequences for the national preparation and setting up the emergency laws. Of course, it provided the basis for the reversal and then a number of measures that were taken to relieve the deportation problem and eventually to address the 2016 broiling. That's why I just want to reiterate what I've said before: circumstances are different now. It's not the same economic catastrophe at hand. This is where a group of investors, whether they like the investments or not, who chose this way and, of course, like other investors in the country, live in the same rules, do not look at something that the middle-class wishes to be on the table today. I'd like to ask you last year's answer. A senator: How does the Central Party intend to tax this money in particular so that it will be equal to other investors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u31	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking part in the discussion, even though we have not yet fully agreed. It is true, however, that the action at the time was based on distress, but for this very reason, the emphasis was so high on what I was doing here, that one thing should pass over all things, and it would not be offered the possibility that there would be any excuse, would not participate in these necessary measures, and later skimming the cream. That was perfectly clear. It was arranged in a way that would prevent humans from doing what they now want to do. They tried to get away with it in various ways, including those in the first century C.E. with a complaint to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, ESA, the result was clear. I quote here in a report from the Agency at the end of 2016: ▪ The EFTA (EU) department has completed two reviews due to a complaint about national legislation on property. The laws involved are part of the operation of the Icelandic government to free capital capital. ESAs believe the legislation is in accordance with the EEA Convention. It was all in accordance with law. And what was in harmony with the law? Yes, the complete plan is to follow through on the rest of them and to make one pass across them all. Therefore, it is not possible to reward those who have not been prepared to participate in the plan. How should they be moved to do so? Yes, simply in the way that has been laid up and made undiscovered; that their property in deportations, which are different from the standard Icelandic crowns, moves to a closed account and if they are ready to participate in other activities, they will certainly make this economic reversal possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u32	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's quite a while for us to agree on this. In the long term, Iceland's interests in this case are that it is the ideal place for foreign investors to invest. Over the years, our foreign investment has been immensely important to us and will continue to do so. There is no Western country that respects laws and rights that somehow try to take possession of foreign investors' property. We are well acquainted with such counsel from some Communist rulers. They are not considered ideal places for foreign investors to be in the long run. As we look forward to the next decade or the next decade, our greatest interests are that the credibility of the Icelandic government is at hand and that they do not misuse the legal authority in some way to own foreign investors simply because that group does not possess them. There's no need anymore. It's been successful with the restoration process, and there's no reason for supporting us in our economic situation right now to use similar measures as we did in 2009 or 2016. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u33	President. First, no new options are being used. It is simply a continuation of the measures taken when the emergency was in place and it was expected that everyone would have to participate. Of course, putting this in perspective is completely absurd. But as I briefly explained in my talk earlier, it is not for the first time because when these measures were introduced and in the past, when these were being addressed, they existed and may have been quite a number of people who were willing to perform this lawsuit, that in the whole operation, they were born with a form of possession, including to the broilers - they were industrious, and their representatives were talking about taking possession of the land. There is, however, that it was not. This has been the case in the courts, and ESAs have come to their conclusions, as I traced earlier. We're gonna go for a second. Of course, a senator has disagreed about one thing or another, but I would have hoped that he would have learned from experience that the best way to make Iceland a promising investment is not to yield to the inconsistency of those who always go as far as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for his talk. Hv. A senator who is well - known for his feelings and is eager to practice the ancient arts, reasoning, and wanting to reason deeply on things when possible. It can be said that at times it is missing in this very room that people reason everything out, yet I must say that thanks is right. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for his answer to why. A senator earlier, who truly reasoned on this matter. Yet, there is still a great shortage of delegates who try to sell us the idea of accepting this blessed matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: If you want to get together - I know it may be difficult for a man who thinks that reasoning is fun - in a very tight case or in one sentence each of the most intimate of this matter would be very important to get it out because it might be easier for a man to come down here and say something. What is the core point that the matter cannot be fulfilled as it is outlined today? For example, what is the reason why people don't come up here and try to sell us to the rest of us on the matter? Well, maybe. A senator's answer? Mostly, I'd like to try to pull out, like the cot. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson called it, the core of the matter. What is important to be wrong, and it was shown in response to a stroke. A senator asking a question. paritaprevir "Simplestein, Þorsteinn of Víglundsson," is that there is not a new creation, as I have understood. The decisions and rules agreed on 2015 are only being diluted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u35	President. That's right. Actually, the last two years or so, it's just being progressively diluted with what had been suggested, not put on new circuits. How, though, can this be explained in one sentence? I think it may even explain the very nature of the plans that all of this is based on in two words, i.e. Intimacy and credibility. What I'm saying is that when the plans were introduced, they contained a definitive conclusion, based on credibleness, that governments have already introduced how things would be resolved in general. Therefore, it is so important to complete the overall solution because, otherwise, there is no endliness, and then there is no credibility, the credibility that the Icelandic government must have in charge of interest for the country. If, as these sides have used, even election propaganda to try to influence the policy of the government, this can work, and if human policy is reversed by governments from what is finally maligned, and it will make it much more difficult for them to follow the government's direction, to put forth a plan based on credibility because they will have doubts about the endliness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u36	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answers. It's very important that we try to draw out the real issue, and I think it's done well now. Sadly, it does not seem to be moving much toward those who would try to get it through. However, I would like to present it to the senator as to whether it is not a key, to keep equal between all those who have been locked up with their possessions, that the process is being followed. On the other hand, if we were to talk about some kind of new law, a new approach, or a new methodology, it would be possible to create some kind of murmuring between those who have had to accept different prices on their property and possibly create some kind of reform or recommunication or such. I'll just roll it up. But it's so remarkable that you feel somehow that there are so many things in common with those who want to make this case pass through and the same category of people who spoke for the magnificent Icesave treaties should flow through here at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u37	President. Yes, you even hear the same phrases and strange things that are going in some cases difficult to learn from. But in terms of action, yes, of course it is a key factor. We can put this into an excellent context by thinking about how it would have been possible to get the bank's scraps to return the stables so - called if, like one of the broilers, had been able to get out of the way and to let the rest finance the operation. If this were to happen, it would have weakened the position of the operation to the extreme, their credibility, and the likelihood that men would have been willing to do their part, each one of them, as they did on the grounds that others would do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u38	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I'd like to ask the senator about his answer earlier, since he tried to frame the matter into two words; his finality and credibility. [[Aptitude.]] Maybe it's the last thing I want to focus on around here. What I've been worried about in this discussion is the message we're sending from us, which the government's sending as guardians of Icelandic interests over future events. This is not the last case that needs to be protected from Icelandic interests. Now there are issues that are about to be frozen on meat, third unit of energy, and there are a lot of cases in the pipes we already know, and there are going to be countless issues that we don't see now that are extremely important that our country's interests are properly upped. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees how he sees this signal shipment being sent by the government today that will bring up our future position in negotiations with the developers, nationalities, or any type of person they may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u39	Hv. A senator may well imagine whether he will not observe how the Icelandic government will keep an interest in national interests as a whole, how they will defend national interests. It was only after they were convinced that the Icelandic government would stand up that they were willing to yield, as necessary. Until then, by reason of reason of reason. A senator mentions, for example. The third energy package of the European Union and the agricultural business, many people had relied on either the same way that people sought to do in the Icesave debate, which had set a precedent for their government, or that the European Union would be the solution. Then the wait just started for the European bank to bring the money to pay men out of the seas, but in a manner similar to that of Greece. This had to be overtime, demonstrating that new governments had come in new directions. As a result, I hope, even if this situation is going to be the worst, some of it will be at least can be restored to the credibility of the Icelandic government when it comes to a basic economic care for the nation by changing the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u40	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer was Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. The other thing I wanted to come in on is anyway. A senator sees some objective correlation to this group or group of supporters of this bill. In his previous answer, he made it necessary to unwind the messages sent to the Icesave language from the Icelandic government to ensure the credibility of the proposed plan in 2015. I think of this in the context of how this bill's sponsor is and how uninterested they are in the debates. I'm asking if he thinks there are any deeper political lines, but they're only turning to keep alone, of foreign property alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u41	President. Some of the explanations, whether related to government, in the sense of Ministers and Generals, must have simply extended this project to the system, which seems to be self - centered to a large extent in these days, as we see, for example. in the Icelandic financial system and even the state banks, or there are some political lines underlying. They have not been here for 15 hours because there seems to be no trust, none of those who support this matter, to speak to it, to try to sell it, as men have said. Meanwhile, we do not know how good or bad the reasons behind this elimination from what had been determined and had produced remarkable results. Why are humans disappearing now? There is no answer to that question. Yet, they do not rely on them to defend these schemes that they want to pass through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u42	A respectable president. We continue to call for our stand and answers to questions that have been asked. We've done our best to answer them ourselves, try to make the gaps. In fact, this is known here, and there have been gaps in the Assembly Hall several times before and even in other places at the house. We don't go into anything about who did it. The bill shows that the goal of the change is to clear out the sources of foreign owners. Of course, the point is that funds are being given. The available sources are not fully used, unfortunately. It's a small advantage how much harmony is between the few ideas or words we've received in return or when we've got people to talk to us and the group that talked about the magnificent Icesave treaties and thought we should accept them, that we should join the European Union. They now want the matter to go through, that it's all good, that we don't have to do it anymore or worry about foreign investments. It's a familiar theme. We've heard before that if we don't do this, foreign investments may be drawn together or people might disappear. Hv. A senator remembers when it was foretold that Iceland would be a Cuba of the north, I think it was said at the time, if we didn't agree to the Icesave deal. One economist came on a television interview and prophesied almost everything except the Black Death if they would not be approved as suggested. It's unlikely that you have the same feeling now, that people have come to the same place, that it's okay to sacrifice certain interests to finish some way of life without being reasoned on the point of the discussion by those who are trying to sell us the matter that it is somehow justified to disappear, to the billions who may be under there, that it is somehow justified to walk all the way despite the difference between what you can get and what these people want to accept. These are certainly much lower numbers than those mentioned in the Icesave Treaty, but, nevertheless, numbers that are relevant, because, as noted, there are many things that can be done for that kind of money. At the same time that certain groups or their spokesmen have spoken for the increased taxation of companies and individuals, they refuse to care for these foreign funds. True, it is true that there may be more than one person in size and size, but they are all people who sit at the same table when it comes to such matters. Of course, Iceland's interests are a source of stress to the proposed plans. None of them have a why. In the public discourses, members of the hearing tell us that it is impossible to go back to their original plan. Nobody said you can't demand 190 bucks. for the euro or 220 k. or 100 k. or God knows what. No one's ever come to tell us what we can do. The matter has not been spent in any way nor attempted to sell it. We must assume that the sources originally approved can be used. A respectable president. Sadly, one may suspect that those who follow the case still believe that there is no reason to do so, that there is no reason for them to argue why we should accept it. It seems to you that there is a mutual recommendation not to do so, that the left members of the government stand and the government groups have agreed to drive the case through. As a result, when it comes to supreme power, or most of them at least, I'm going to allow myself to put parentheses around the Independence Party, because at times people there have been weak. A respectable president. I can't finish what I was going to say and wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to briefly step in on the scene of his recovery, in relation to a discussion about financial and financial matters and the great conflict that exists there is one single billion here and one billion there. Has he seen that in recent years, he has similar apathy toward such large amounts of money? If we look at the agreements made, 2017, we require 90 billion, and we use that as a discount rate, we can say, for a follow-up of 13.6 billion, but for a 190 k. The figure to be the best price to earn is 23 billion. Has a what? A senator had become so uninterested in such large numbers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u44	A respectable president. Yes, it has to be said at the moment that I have not been interested in much larger numbers, and I'm going to mention the Icesave deal, since I came to the council, and of course, how to solve those capitalists. It is clear that there was a difference of opinion as to whether this should take place, and even people had imagined that the funds and banks would be fine to extract. The fact is, it's a much larger amount, 600-2,800 billion, I don't exactly remember how it is, but a lot higher. However, in the latter time since the start of the current government, as well as the government before, we have seen that humans were very creative when it came to adding a curse, whether it was a carbon tax or something, to gain more income. Many spoke for rising fishing fees and such. The same people are now rejecting it, in effect, saying that we do not need this 13.63 - 22 billion. We just don't need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u45	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to admit that there is something wrong with a person's having to experience this, that here are members of the council who are very much involved in financial and financial schemes, who want to go to the point where they live and often are spoken of as gifts for various groups, especially when it is popular to talk about billions of gifts to an agent. It is thrilling to see now that it is fully empty, that silence is complete. The only conversation of the Conspiracy was an answer, if I recall correctly, from what. A deputy senator, the Einar Kárason, who now seemed crazy to count Sverrir Hermannsson, the former senator, as far as anyone in town as possible on the z-nu, who spoke of the basic school law. It was all a material introduction to this discussion from the United States that other days they feel fully capable of obtaining any income.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u46	A respectable president. Of course, we know that many of the convergence groups are for home bridges, to get to the throwing light, to be put into the discussion. We know that there is a particular group of people who always talk about getting money for their funerals or for jobs, but at the same time, they are members, and they don't want to give up, or at least do not try to reach out, as it were. A senator pointed out according to his calculations, over 13 billion or 23 billion, something in between. Why is this so? You wonder what the Conspiracy could do, for example. Do they come in for the sound that sometimes sounds in that town? That would be, for example. slowly shake up only in this blessed mayor, trying to make some use of it in cooperation with the State and build some of the apartments for that money. This is where we talked only last night, whether it could be 5,000 to 8,000 apartments. We do not know, of course. This, however, is a worthwhile subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u47	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a fine talk in which he looked only at the beginning, how things remind him of another discussion that was conducted here some years ago. I wondered what it was that happened when the decision was made to take this trip with an off-country. There was to be an invitation first in October 2015, but this did not occur until May 25, 2016. I wondered if a senator can answer what was actually going on at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u48	A respectable president. Since I was in the government at the time, I was very anxious, of course, with what was going on there, observing how badly the blessed system we then call was going to go where the government wanted to go. Somehow, the whole complex foot of the system agreed to try to go some other way than where they put it. It took way too long to implement this, it's quite clear, and what happened at that time was that the people worked simply, I think, not fast enough, they were trying to complicate things too much that made things work too slow. What may be more important, if we look at dates, is the direction that has already come to the summer of 2016. Then all of a sudden, there was a complete change in direction in these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. This leads me to my second question. We were told that things would have to happen tomorrow, and then at least yesterday, or the sky and the earth would be completely destroyed. In the news, today's lunch reminds me, we were able to see that some servers had sent in a inquiry to the Federal Bank because of the warnings presented by the Navy, which followed in a paper with the bill. Nothing's happened. What does the senator see as the next step?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u50	A respectable president. That's right, I read one of those news, and there was no sound evidence from the Secret Bank that something great was happening. It is not new, however, that one puts matters into practice in this way, even without logical support. Last of all, on December 14, cold coal, where the same matter had to be run through. The next step will likely be that, at any time, this case will eventually be accepted. Of course it ends that way. But hopefully, before that happens, we get some answers to the questions we've asked here. If we are not told what is really going on here and are not given the reason for the matter, we must be against it and vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar, the son of Sveinsson, through an inspired talk. The senator came in to the fact that the funds were being paid off, that it would not be worth all the possibilities in this matter. In yesterday's talks, it was noted that the current financial owners, who have not left behind in this process of emissions, are just those who are now receiving special consideration. Because we've been talking about this document here, I'd like to ask the senator: Is it possible to make sure that the stability conditions and/or tax on a fallen bank is just what's being left behind? Is it possible to say, or is that really the question we are all looking for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. That's one of the questions we've been asking about, what the evidence is for this, what the result will be if this case is approved. It has been shown that there are no comprehensive data on how this can affect several aspects of our economic environment. It seems to us that the funds that could be collected from the owners of these assets are being reimbursed if they adhered to the plan set out by 2015, where the price of these assets had been determined. No one's ever come up here and tell us that we can't go back in that process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. That may be the key to the matter, which came at the end of an answer. A senator and perhaps a little tragic question that I was about to ask because it doesn't matter where good comes from when it comes from. It doesn't necessarily explain which point it comes up to. I'm happy with this answer, and maybe it's just a step in that we're learning more about where the dog is buried in this case, why people aren't impenetrable in turning to the direction that this document is about - and you haven't actually heard the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u54	A respectable president. Now I don't know what it is. A senator is on the rosary, but if he is not there, I suggest that he put himself on the rosary. I'm going to make it difficult for him to ask what he thinks is going to make it possible for those who want to get this case not to come here for this sermon and reason on their case. There have been two talks, one when the case was recommended, and another when the chairman of the Committee gave her opinion. Since then, two people have likely answered, but all the discussion has been done here on behalf of those who would try to convince us that this is a good way to finish it. At the same time, we find no answer to what righteousness is like in this way, to yield to these sources, to give them more space than others, to reward those who desire to comply with the rules established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A fine speech for a senator. I just wanted to come in on one thing on page. 5 of the report. It says: Thus, if an off-countee chooses to invest in the country, the financial aims of the influx of capital will remain in the domestic market and come to a country in the form of a new influx of foreign currency. That's what I'd like to stop by, i.e. It's my business to invest in this country. First of all, I'd like to say that all information is missing on the basis of this statement. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, whose experience as the former minister of foreign affairs, was very persistent, and did that work in excellent order as noted: What is his sense of interest in investing in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u56	A respectable president. We can't answer what these people are into investing in Iceland. All of these are really speculations and speculations about what they can think of. At least this information has not been submitted. At the time, however, I learned that there was an international interest in investing in Iceland. Of course, what they saw in this subject was how we walked and have gained confidence abroad by following the methodology that we initiated. Just getting up at the Icesave agreements and having a credible, solid plan for the rest of the financial system is very important to this party. It seems that here in the hall we have a very good minister who knows these matters very well, i.e. The investment and interest of foreign investors in Iceland. He's a substitute economic and economic minister, and you're never gonna know unless you give us some kind of good information or a speech from the highest level. Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u57	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would judge because he spoke specifically of credibility. You're absolutely right. A senator, our credibility is of great importance when foreign people consider investments in this country, whether or not we are living with declarations, etc. You see, it is what we have seen in all of this that governments have not shown credibility by presenting this bill because, in fact, they are paying the dues left in the country with their credits at the same time that those who did the will and instructions of the government at first had to go to another level. So there's a difference between sides. It is never good when it comes to investments and credibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u58	A respectable president. Religiousism is one of the most important things when we look at communication, whether it is between us and our own country or with our foreign partners. This document, emissions of capital crisis, is extremely important in increasing or achieving credibility in foreign countries, especially those who were potentially involved in investing in Iceland. When governments are like a cigar, they just turn around or they give up all the time, it's not credible. Therefore, I think it would be a good idea for the government to wonder if it is not just the opportunity to demonstrate again the credible and credible conviction set out in this matter, the release of capital resources, and to go back to the course taken at the beginning. I have to admit, I don't know if it's too late. I don't think so. I think it's as much as possible to offer it as the numbers in the bill we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u59	Madam President. I just want to try to frame the messages I tried to convey yesterday, last night, and last night. First of all, it is the financial interests that exist. Second, to review that there is no such thing as an illegal or illegal. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson came into the past of some kind of property recording. Third, why do people not participate in this discussion, i.e. sponsors of the case? And fourth, it is the message being sent with this payment. First, I want to frame what financial interests are involved. We have seen to it that the minimum possible post-treatment discount is the commercial discount, which is similar to the total value of 90 billion, on March 12, 2017. However, it is 190 k. The control group set up in 2015 when the big plan started. Of course, it was meant to be the most practical advantage for landowners, and according to the scheme, it was to get worse from that point, but it could not be improved. The currently available box is 13.6 billion of the 1,984 billion to 23, if the figure is 190 k. Euro score. These are real values, including... That is why we are in this fight, trying to understand why the government in general wants to step aside when it comes to taking on this huge issue. No one has come up to try to explain what is going to be prepared and will still be excited to hear from an active financial minister or member of the Committee's Department now on the rosary and will be interesting to hear from the following. It has been claimed that this was not a law. It was not in court this day. There is now only a conclusion from the EFTA Institute at the end of 2016 that states clearly, with the permission of a president: ▪ The EFTA (EU) department has completed two reviews due to a complaint about national legislation on property. The laws involved are part of the operation of the Icelandic government to free capital capital. ESAs believe the legislation is in accordance with the EEA Convention. So many were words. I don't think we should justify letting these revenues go out of the state's budget on the grounds that this is not a rule. Third: Why do people not participate in the discussion? Then I mean the members of the government groups or the panels of the government opposition that seem to be a follower of the fact that this matter is going on as outlined. We've been in a lot of trouble, we believe, by getting information that is needed to figure out what's behind it. It's been tough. Of course, it gives rise to certain suspicions when no one, not one of the groups that seem to support the case, is ready to come up here for less than 15 hours of discussion, and with the time it is due today in the 16th hour expected. The fourth thing and the last thing I'd like to mention here is the message this is sending. Of course, there are many disputes that will be resolved. There are many opinions that are yet to arise, and it is vital that the Icelanders know that whenever matters arise, they meet with determination and persistence. Of course, there would have been no success in Icesave cases if people had been able to get down in a way that now seems to be happening. There would have been no success in past phase relief if people had not been convinced that the Icelandic government was in their feet. I'm afraid the damage caused by the messages sent by this operation will increase and increase as the weight goes down, because there will be issues where it really matters that we know that Iceland's stakeholders are on their feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u60	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for covering this matter quite well into the four points he mentioned in his talk. One thing has intrigued me in this discussion. First, it seems that some people think that we members of the Central Party are in this discussion with some different motives, some interests for some unnamed party, of course not. Our economic security in this matter is about the nation, the state, the government's finances, and so on. One thing that has brought my attention to this discussion is that none of those who seem to be supporting this matter, as it is now taking place. No one's ever come in here and said to us, "You're wrong about us in this case. You're smoking. It's an empty tar. No one has entered this discussion with that message. It seems that this matter, as already established, has extensive support within the council. So I wonder, " Why? ' A senator whether he should explain that since no one is confident to come into the discussion and explain to us and to all others why he is so strongly supporting this matter, why it is so important that this matter, as I call, receive the quick treatment that it is necessary to resolve this issue in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u61	Madam President. I can answer that with the utmost honesty, sir. Senator, I don't have an answer to why people don't come here to measure this balance. The support team appears to be quite dramatic. Of course, the way in which people envisioned the matter going through the council with an absolute minimum discussion, in order to be said in a mild way, is the fact that you have scratched your head over it. In this context, I don't want men to do anything bad, but I wonder if it's because the senators haven't stepped in on the case or if they just think that it's done enough, that's been the fairy success that was achieved by the breakout process that began in 2015, whether people have had the adventurous success that has already been achieved enough and that men have had it. I don't know, but I'm very sorry if the senators feel that it's about time they're aware that they're aware of the lack of money here and there, and that many good things are going to be done by the 2015 total piece of paper, by the time we're all aware that we're all aware of. Here we are looking at the subsequent delivery of the potential inflation into the state budget of 13.6◯23 billion - 23, using 190 k. Criteria for EUR which is the reference used for 2015. Asking is what's chosen. I don't trust myself to be able to put them away because there are no messages in these matters in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. As a result, I think that I didn't feel that I've heard of anyone getting on this deck and saying that the amount we've listed up here, i.e. One hundred and twenty - three thousand million are wrong and unfounded. Hv. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong. So I wondered, " Why is it so angry to settle this matter that they are prepared to accept this matter with no warning? ' A senator points out, could be used very extensively in a money - making system. I'm asking why. A senator of why he doesn't think people come here and question these numbers if they're wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u63	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. In many ways, it would be fun if people were to take an interest in these calculations because they are not very complex. It's complicated, but these calculations aren't. I think it explains that the main part of why no one has ever come up here and weaved them. The superintendent came here earlier today, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, but he was so modest about in the pittret that he thought we middle-class members had talked for over 14 hours yesterday and that it would have been all nonsense if I remembered the use of words. A senator's right. It's the kind of case I'm judging myself, and I'm not doing anything with it. But just to come back to the point that has not been critical of these calculations, I think that's primarily because they're not very complex, they're just there and they're so you're probably going to have to criticize something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u64	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For the Bergþór of Ólason, the three sons of Ola, for his excellent speech, and they have been many good on his part. We are faced with the question of why it is decided on the part of the government to deviate from a policy in completing a solution to these deportations. The point is that by turning aside from the policy that through the process, the auction route, which was so clearly and carefully established in 2015, it seems that government funds can result from an enormous amount of money. These interests, especially those that we at the Central Party Congress have chosen to be a guardian - they have brought attention to a number of people, including me, to the fact that no article is made in a paper with the bill what money they might be playing. However, a statement that has been brought to the fore in the past that this does not involve a government fund. Of course, it has to do with government funds in the sense that it survives, or it seems to be possible, a considerable amount of money. Has the senator stepped over it and developed a firm view of the amount of money that could lie on the basis of the available auction? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First, I want to read from the existing bill, 6 / 1 Effects on state funds, with president's permission, first off. A senator came into it. It's not a long chloasma. The changes in the bill are not expected to have a significant impact on the income of the state budget or on expenses. If the bill remains unchanged, the law cannot see that it will affect the survival of a government fund. I have to admit that I don't understand this paragraph, and so I'd like to get some explanation for it, either from the head of the committee's opinion of the greater part or the functional financial minister. But it's just a simple rational view of this text, compared to the point of the matter, which causes it just to not work out. As a result, when it comes to the lack of any effort to identify the financial impact in the bill, in the series, in the paper or in the committee, I describe here again as a mere reminder of the inexpensiveity of such factors and, in fact, no one is involved. Of course, this is not acceptable, as I entered several times yesterday and night, to say, you fine members of the Central Party can only find answers to these questions in the bill or commission or to the two talks held by the representatives of the administration classes - when the fact is that neither of these cards nor in any of the talks delivered comes out of any of these points. Of course, that is most unfortunate and not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u66	Madam President. Of course, it is of particular interest that in the bill, which has an important significance here, it should not be enlightened in a report, bearing in mind that the Navy will have played a responsible role in making the bill. And in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there are naturally a large number of people with economic knowledge who would be able to provide a comprehensive assessment of factors like those we were discussing correctly in this case, the money that is playing the game, and chess out the boundaries, play out motion pictures. This applies not only to the amount of money it seems possible to go into the fancies but also to the potential effect on gangs, on prices, on indexes, on currency stores, and so on. It seems now that this is not exactly the case, so progress has been made in matters that are sufficiently enlightened, at least Doesn't apply to this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u67	Madam President. I completely agree with what goes by. paritaprevir Unsolved Ólafur of Ísleifsson, this, of course, is a strange procedure. Those who win these measures, these bills, should have an excellent practice in describing income that has been caused by all of these stability conditions. Because they've been enormous. I have to admit that I have not put myself in the technicalities of accounting, but I can only imagine that all the dozens and the billions of people who have entered a government fund on the basis of these contracts came in as income. So you should know how to do it well. To argue that this case has no effect on income or the financial expenses - I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before the talk and would like to have his opinion on a case that was being held in front of him. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson earlier today, who believed that this could be a form of property, i.e. that the presentation of our Middle-class members in this matter should include a form of property. This case was widely discussed in its time as one of the equipment the hedge fund tried to use to plant seeds of suspicion in Iceland. When breakout began in 2016, a statement came from the stakeholders of the hedge fund, Icelandic lawyers, claiming that they thought the bill was against the Constitution and the property of the funds. At the time, they spoke up about the obligation of the State Fund. We know that all of this was gone. As we know from 72nd degree. The Constitution is at peace with the right of property. However, from Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, law professor and vice president of the National Court, the opinion was given that this was exactly the law of the constitution, so it was not being violated. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear what you're thinking. That's what a senator is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. This presentation should be familiar with us. We received an excellent exercise in handling such a lawsuit in the so - called Icesave language. In this case, approximately all its smells have been tested, and it has all fallen in the same way. I've got it here, and I can say about a case that has gone to the Supreme Court that the ESA, the EFTA monitoring department, took over, and the main outcome was, by permission of the President: ▪ The EFTA (EU) department has completed two reviews due to a complaint about national legislation on property. The laws involved are part of the operation of the Icelandic government to free capital capital. ESAs believe the legislation is in accordance with the EEA Convention. This leaves no room for interpretation, and our righteous standing is just very good in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's reply is clear. I specifically took note of his concluding statement that our righteous standing would be quite good. You see, that is the point, and unfortunately, it would have been necessary to inculcate him in the government when they gave in to the hedge fund in the way that we have witnessed and are here in this bill. They give in spite of the fact that the situation is very righteous; they are fully justified in stressing that one thing will pass over everyone. Nevertheless, they yield, which, of course, is very sad and raises the question, Why was that journey gone? We have not received any answer to that question here, and that is what we have repeatedly pointed out that it is necessary to get an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u71	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's been done too much of the last 10 to 11 years talking your own position down. I don't know if we had to be especially small for a while after the collapse of the bank. I think it did a lot of damage. There's been a lot of energy to recycle the position that was left unnecessary, and I think this might be one of the places humans are giving away that are actually working on in this bill. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u72	Madam President. We'll discuss the financial secretary's bill on the treatment of Cabinet property that has been dependent on specific limits, i.e. Drops of land. Materially, the bill insists that national owners will be authorized to take their money out of bills that were previously dependent on their specific limitations as well as to purchase for these crowns of foreign currency. This is one of the final steps, as stated in the bill, to eliminate the capital capital masters that protected Iceland and the Icelandic economy while it was rising in the years after a collapse. Madam President. What is the background of this case? It is that on June 8, 2015, the government's fixed plan for emissions, which was primarily designed for the owners of the Cabinet estates, which were trapped in the seas, was offered to free them from the payments of stress, i.e. that they would be involved in the restoration of the Icelandic economy after a collapse. Madam President. Of course, if these people had seen the slightest trace in Icelandic governments, they would not have jumped on that bus, of course, in the hope that later they would be rewarded. However, this plan went well. She was a professionally prepared, and this helped to dislodge much of the possessions of these groups. They paid for national pressures for building timbers, such as. Your healthcare system. However, some creditors decided to stubbornly, perhaps in the hope that the government will leave behind - which is now, Madam President. The government is taking the action that we here discuss from the plans for the release of the sea. Madam President. Why this retreat? Why? The little that has been heard from other political powers here at the General Assembly in discussing this matter is mainly the fact that the population's foreign positions are so good and that there is no disaster at the doors of the Icelandic economy. It was the evidence we heard earlier, we stood so well, our nation's set was so good, and there's no sign of trouble. These are the reasons. These are the reasons for the surrender. Is it evidence in this case to set aside a plan that would continue to give fair stress to the people when the owners of the crowns paid off their Icelandic crowns? Is it true that it's going so well here, that national building is so good and there's no sign of trouble? In other words, even after the possibility of a reasonable amount of stress, it's only because there's so much going on here. In other words, we have so much money. What about the building of a nursing home? Don't you think there's any money in there? There's money everywhere. No, we have so much money, let's just give it up. Let's stop this program, cancel it, and give it up, reverse this program that was successful. What is this message about the outside world? What does this message mean? It may be the most serious part of this case, that the government in this small country finally yields, and they stubbornly rebelled on the hedge fund, which would not negotiate with the Icelandic government at the end of the day. At all times, the matter of this magnitude should draw attention to the council and the government side should be right here in the platform, all of us asking questions and answers to their questions. No, it's not. Madam President. This is about defending Iceland's interests. Why should this matter not be handled with Icelandic interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to, too, because I can't remember if I succeeded tonight, thank him for a fine speech tonight, in which the senator used the illustration of a race. Western eyes tend to want to pursue all kinds of competition and competition. A senator said it was fine. So a man later asks of the senator's speeches - for the night and now - whether the senator believes that we are now challenging his own goal, when we give in to these most persistent hedge funds or owners of these crowns who have refused to participate or have taken over the government's efforts to complete or rid themselves of these matters all. The retreat certainly started a long time ago, but it's uncertain and has not responded to it here -- we may get the answer later, I know that the head of the Economic and Business Committee is on the rosary - whether there's a ban or not to stop us from going back to our previous plans and moving back forward instead of playing our own goal. This is what I want to wonder at. A senator. Hv. A senator also correctly stated that considerable funds can lie underneath. True, everything depends on what is meant. If measured at 190 k. these figures have repeatedly appeared here. And it doesn't matter whether it's 13 billion or 11 or 20 or something - for that, there are things you can do. Hv. A senator has spoken for specific corrections to certain groups in this community, and I would like to ask him if it was not for the sake of merely supporting matters in the labour market and in the community all that would be used in social projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. He talked about racing, as I did in my speech last night. Think about who the owners of these crowns are. It was mentioned earlier today that these were not all bad men. Of course I don't know who they are, but part of these owners is foreign hedge funds that have bought the crown stocks that stuck inside and gathered them, agents who wanted to get out right away. And, of course, they found these assets at a loss in the hope of selling them back later on into a much higher success that has actually come during the day. They did not participate when the 2015 government invited them to release them at 190 k.E., so they did not respond. The result? Releasing, organized retreat, is what it is called in warfare. But in a sports game, as I mentioned yesterday, it's almost like a team that's doing pretty well in the first half and that's even over half isn't showing up at the second half. The team doesn't show up on the field. That's what gives it the game. Where are the players? They're just in the dressing room, they give the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u75	A respectable president. I don't mean to say it, but I don't think any contests have been won in the locker room. Of course, the development of the team is of great importance, and 2015 had been working very long, and actually in that year, preparing for the big event, competition, or plan that was started; the plan was adopted in 2015. Of course, it is strange that humans wanted to give up a complete victory. Hv. A senator is a athlete, and he well knows the importance of winning the complete victory. And here, of course, we're talking about winning a complete victory for Iceland, about whether we can be more effective for these countries than we're given in the bill. There is evidence that this can be true. I say that there are many reasons why we have not been told. Hv. A senator must have wondered why he cannot answer his questions. We have not yet received answers to why the administration of these stakes has begun to result in such a great deal of property by offering them to this ◯dile, so to speak -- I apologize, a respectable president, in that language - which they seem to be receiving here. So I ask again if it is far possible to believe that we could have done quite a lot for older citizens and others who have waited for correction on their terms for the funds in there, so that it is not spoken of bringing an injection into the very appropriate housing address, e.g. On the basis of collective agreements and on to include them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, we can do a lot for the money that might have been achieved if the original plans had been maintained. The budget management plan of 8 June 2015 determined that the Fendlaban would carry out an invitation he made in June 2016, where the owners of the land were invited to purchase a foreign currency before the government had a suitable domestic release. The financial height of the approved invitation was 83 billion of the 188 billion that were included in this package. And this business was held at 190 k. Each euro. More than 40% of the dollars was being released at 190 bucks. The euro. What is happening today is a return, a final apostasy, from the government's work programme for release at this time. This program was based on three main steps to take as a unit, where all contributed to the restoration. The factors involved in the release of the defamator are still remains unsolved. However, government plans are going contrary to the solution I was here to mention, and it was suggested that a principle be followed. It's an apostasy, it's a return, it's a retreat. These people pledged that the Icelandic government would surrender and that they could decompose with the highest yield, and they have become their wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u77	V.E.G. President. We've been told how fast the bill is running through here. Before Christmas, the matter was to be scheduled on the last day of the council without the chance to see the bill. We will be told in the Assembly Hall that we lack the answers to the questions we have. For example, there are vast sums of money that could be used for an important assignment, as it has been repeated. Senators have raised questions that have to do with order and index. We are talking about 84 billion, and we need to clarify more clearly how the approved bill will have effect. I came into it only earlier today, that in the news media today, some of them have sent a inquiry to Iceland's Secret Bank, and in one inquiry, they were asked whether the U.S. National Bank's warning really worked out. It was shown in the bank's answer that it did not. It has been claimed that we should read the bill better, and if it is not enough to read the committee opinion. But we still need answers to the question why the bill is coming in right now and why its payment is meant to be at this rate. We also lack answers to why the bill had to become a law yesterday or yesterday, considering the comments made by the Bank of Iceland, which is somewhat special, since the National Association's comments to press services today are as they are. Nothing's happening. We need to put the matter into context. In my mind, there's a total surrender, kind of a lame end to another fine start, as the park suggested. You see, it is quite possible that they were never to yield. In itself, it is strange why a person has become discouraged. Why were men yielding? Why did men sacrifice so much of Iceland's interests when they first gave up so perfect and planned? We can say that it is a sale of a government fund, as has been said in the discussion, that it is possible to make good use of, e.g. to build a rented apartment for an adverse purpose in meeting the worst of their housing problems. It would be a good idea for an introductory conversation. We also heard on lunch reports that we would likely be stumbled by the fur. This accounts for 3% of GDP. There's something there, too. But the message the government sends is out of control. We are not thinking about this end of the journey, and we still lack the answers to what is happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u78	A respectable president. What's going on? That's one of the things we've been asking about. We have also asked material questions about the content of the bill and the opinions of the committee. Perhaps we will find answers later when the next speaker comes in a public talk, or why. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. But it's not quite safe, I'm afraid. Of course, we miss that the representatives of the panels who seem to want to run the case through would come here and argue why. We've taken a good look at our vision and our concern about the matter and what we believe is unacceptable, i.e. not to be successful when it comes to getting the best possible price for these assets. These are some of the high numbers that can be at stake. Hv. A senator could possibly review the projects that have entered the board of committees on which she sits, whether this is related to well - being or educational matters and so on, where, of course, there is no money. That is why it is incomprehensible for members of the council to come up and say that we really don't need this. Of course, all of us need that money. We can use them for many very important projects. It's a little special, I would say, in the middle of a struggle for a certain government donations, to send out messages when the government says that more is not done with the labor movement, and at the same time, it is actually putting down many billions, possibly tens of billions, that could be used in some kind of monofocal action to help matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for. That's a good thought, i.e. how much money we could use. In the committee I am serving on the World Health Committee, we have recently received visitors who all call for extra funding. I can mention a nursing home, I can mention health care, I can mention money for mental - health services, and most important of all, how we can correct the terms of those who do not have a contract. I can think of this, since it looks like a fool's interview is now in a hurry. There are groups like micromasks and then the group of people who have lived with a cent across a crown that seems to be going on for one more trip. It's a little strange that we don't try to look at all the factors when we're reviewing them and what we're facing. I hope after this discussion, when the case goes back into the question. In an effort to explain what's going on here, the head of the bank is going to be called before the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u80	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think it's very important to get in a speech chair, and it's likely to follow, how. The head of the Economic and Business Committee intends to conduct the case at a committee meeting that has been requested to be discussed. It is important that the subject is discussed in a material way and that any of the questions presented here will be answered. Hv. The chairman and the financier of the Committee informed in his talk, the one short term the management team has since began the discussion, that there were three meetings in the committee. There is good reason to review even the points then discussed or at least discuss the issues as well as the questions that have come up after the discussion. Hv. A senator well knows the medical system, and he has discussed it extensively in his talks. So it is tempting to ask the senator what role the senator would feel would benefit if we took advantage of the apparent funds, e.g. within the framework in which this is discussed. We haven't been allowed to know. We have seen, however, that groups of people who have generally talked about getting income from their jobs, getting income for individuals have not been deeply concerned that there may be billions or billions of dollars that could be used for various projects, but the same fine groups speak a lot about the need for tax recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u81	V.E.G. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for. It is true that there are countless important tasks that are available and that these funds can be used. At worst, we're talking about 23 billion. It's something. Indeed, they can be used far and wide. Health systems always suck up more and more money. Somewhere it says we have quite a little use for other OECD countries, so to speak, but that's not enough. We also need to plan how we will use this money. I've said that in the past, we're going to have to engage in a full-scale vaccination of the health system. It can't be true that we're piling everything up in one place where traffic can hardly be accessed, as it were. There's a call for extra money on the health care unit. I only know about Akureyri, where e.g. can hardly have time for a family doctor who is supposed to be the first stop. There was an increase in the mental - health care program. Still, there is still a five - month waiting period to get to a psychologist in the north. There are countless tasks waiting, and we can certainly use this money at all costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A beautiful speech for Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle's Daughter. She, like many other speakers, became talking about the state of the world and the changes in emissions of capital stealing after the summer of 2016, and asked why this fine plan was turned aside. Various individuals have been thrown in between, but they may not be able to give a clear answer. It may be hoped that after the next speaker has finished speaking, we will be closer to that answer. But I would like to ask the senator about this money and the money owners who have not left behind in the process but who are now discussing it or the money they have, a bore question: Why? Is it possible for the senator to assume that the projection of the budget was shifted to June of this year? And give us speculations or answer at this time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for a great deal. Why the change? That's a really good question. There are some ideas in your head. Could that be because of frequent government changes? Could this be because humans have always been making a new government covenant? Could it be that the last three years were marked by discouragement? Another thing you can think of is whether this is how the government or the system just got to go on and on and on, as we hear so often with the Land Hospital - I can't have him hooked up into it -- that people have come so far in nonsense that they can't go back. This is what I can think of, and it would be interesting to know when a meeting is held in the Economic and Business Committee, which will be the result. Why has the matter ended as it seems to be ending now, in complete confusion and even surrender?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It has been observed in the minds of people that there could be as many as 20◯25 billion who would come to the State if the current course was about to be changed. I know that the senator, along with the one standing here, is very interested in health care, and especially mental health and mental health, which includes alcohol and drug abuse as well as many other mental problems. If we assume that this money appeals to a government fund, what does the senator think is the most important thing in this regard? Then I am referring, not to these spiritual areas, but to the field of health. Which one of those towns should we stick a coin into? What is most important? We have talked much about overall prevention, from cradle to grave, and so forth. In what health - care system would we first make money? Or would we spread them evenly over all?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for a great deal. He mentioned the figure 201⁄225 billion, and you wonder: " Why is this money being given, as the situation seems today? ' They're just being given away, that's all. What you could do would be leaping up in your medical system. I don't like the way you go. A health minister is now on the move by dropping everything at the same assembly. Today, we are wasting very much money by sending people into replacement operations while these operations can be performed at home, but they do not seem to be room for them, since doctors who can take them into their jobs do not work in the right house. It is so strange that people are all different, and they need to be approached in different ways, and it can be said that all services are not naturally performed in one place. The Senator mentioned earlier prevention. I would love it if we were all able to think a little bit of procrastination. But it also means allowing more agencies to, the subversive organizations so called and members of society, who do not seem to fit in with the health minister's box, and thus even are excluded from helping.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u86	Mr. President. I've been trying to keep up with this discussion ever since it began. Fifteen yesterday and until the end of the day. 5.30 this morning as much as I can. It's sometimes been a little hard to hold a thread, it should be accepted, but let it lie between parts. But I hear what you're doing. Central-class members who have addressed this issue have called for further information, believe that data are not sufficiently clear, etc. It surprises me a little bit, shall be confessed, but as the Commission has already declared, the Commission will meet after this discussion and the Committee will arrive with the National Intelligence Committee experts. There you will have the opportunity, if you take the time to attend a committee meeting, to request further explanations and information that you believe are lacking in this matter. I also think it's right to keep it in place because there's some confusion around here sometimes that this bill was submitted to the council on December 14th. of the highest. Financial and economic ministers. He asked for a bill to be measured so that it could be sent to the Economic and Business Committee, which would then send the case for review and then take the bill for material treatment after Christmas leave. This could not be achieved for reasons as long as possible. The most widely spoken members of the council are well aware of. January 22, the secretary of finance spoke for the bill here in the Congress Hall. No senator saw reason to respond to the Supreme Court. Minister, request information, make a request for further information, or use a speech. The same day, they took it. The members of the Central Party, however, are involved in other discussions here at the Hall of Congress, including Special discussions about the problems of the Land Hospital they took the initiative to discuss, as well as in the unsupervised inquiry to the minister on the same day. They saw no reason to participate in a discussion about the bill we are discussing here or to ask for further information that they thought might be lacking compared with what was presented in the report. The bill had then been with members of Congress for over a month, so enough was the time to examine the subject. Of course, this is just a decision made. The members of the Central Party were not the only members of Congress who did not comment. No senator spoke of the matter in the first. ... aboutthiscase. On January 24, the Economic and Business Committee took the matter, sent it to review, and it decided that the person standing here would be the manager. No members of the committee expressed specific requests that a certain person should be sent the case for review, saying that the matter should be discussed in some predetermined way. 31st January, the Ministry of Economics meets with the Economic and Business Committee. There they review the bill and answer all the questions asked by the committee. A representative of the Central Economic and Business Committee wasn't at that meeting, and the Central Party didn't send a backup in his place, so that's the case. February 19th, experts in the Federal Bank approached the Committee and answered all the questions and gave all the information the committee considered necessary to take a materialistic view of the matter. It shall be admitted that the Central Economic and Business Committee representative was not at that meeting. For some reason, the middle party did not think it was possible or could not replace a replacement. Same day, right after. 18, get all the members of the Economic and Business Committee assigned them to the Committee to make it clear that the Committee's plan is due to be passed on at 6: 00 p.m. 8.45 two days later, i.e. On Thursday, February 21, which is actually the same day as the Economic and Business Committee, an open meeting was also held with representatives of the Secret Bank for a report of the money conference to the General Act. In other words, it's from the end of the day. 18 on February 19th through the morning. On February 8,45, all members of the committee had the opinion of the committee, knew that there was a special meeting for the open meeting to accept the opinion of the committee, accept if there were any tips or requests for change, etc. Never at that time did any member of the committee ask to make any changes. Everyone was happy, or that's how they could be understood. There was no request to explain something that was vague, so more information would be needed. This was the way it was done. You're right to keep this up. All members of the committee who were here by tomorrow morning. On Thursday, February 21, 8,45 supported the commission. It should be noted that the Central Committee representative of the Economic and Business Committee was not sitting at that meeting, and also the Central Party deputy was not present at that meeting. However, 15 minutes later, an open meeting opened with representatives of the Federal Commission on a report of the money conference to the Generals. There was a member of the Central Party. This is just to keep things going and also to wonder, since opportunities are left behind for this discussion, doing yet another attempt to get the information they're asking for, or believe are necessary and are not needed, and I don't realize what's going on. That's an option as soon as this discussion ends because it doesn't look like it's going to be very much, at least. Whether or not to show the end of the torrent. The only thing to say is that the owners of the leftovers who are still trapped in the Off-End are those who have had their money since before the capital was set up, and those who bought demands and crowns and other financial products after the introductions. I hope everyone's clear. Most of the bonds that come on due date 26 February are owned by a person who came into the market long before the capitals. It is not a hedge fund. It is a standard bond fund, which in accordance with its own internal rules and investment policy, it is forbidden to have cash only for a short period of time. They should have bonds and only bonds, but they have only a short time to reinvest their interest capitals and reimburse new bonds, etc. In the event of a further delay in paying off the bill, it is likely that the relevant members will be moved to look for ways to sell their crown positions in a foreign market outside the national jurisdiction of the Icelandic government to another kind of invest with a short-term objective that would look through a currency market at the first opportunity. I hope so. Senators are aware of this. It would be unfortunate if this happened because this is a type of investors who are desirable in investing in domestic bonds. These are investors who have long - term looked, and they have shown that they are not likely to buy or sell credits as winds blow on the market with the necessary pressure on the budget and the gangs of the Icelandic crown. In recent years, there have been progressive efforts to improve the investment base in Icelandic government bonds. Inland market is small. The investment base is uniform, mainly pension funds, stock markets, and domestic banks. Today, there are only 10% federal bonds in the bank of international investors. The corresponding percentage in other countries with an independent coin is 35◯50%. Investors in an investment group increase stability and improve Kingdom funds access to longer - term funding and contribute to a lower cost of financing. Thus, a broad investment group is one of the cornerstones of the loan control of developed nations. And unfortunately, this is the way it works against the fact that it can be done in Iceland. I had a lot of things to tell you, but I didn't expect them to happen. I did not expect the members of the Central Party to act in ways that they would not contribute to a healthy environment that would allow state funds for us to pursue loan control as we do in other spirits we compare ourselves to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u87	A respectable president. Then finally, at last. The head of the Economic and Business Committee got us to give a talk on the subject, we got to hear a very peculiar talk that was particularly about either talking too much or having talked too little about the matter, not at the point where it was going. A senator wanted to talk about it. I've had that conversation before. A senator well knows that as a result of illness, I missed committee meetings where this was discussed, as the media even reported. But I'm not going to spend time tracking the history of dates. A senator crossed. However, it may be an opportunity to do so in the following talk, since it is an interesting story in itself. I don't need to hear the cooking of public officials or the markets about why they want this case approved. I have listened to such talks from the fact that the Commission of the Agency and of the Independence Party began to try to solve the problem in 2013, and people always felt that something would be done that would not be done to anyone on the market and that would lead to frustrated investors. This is a discussion that has actually taken place much longer in Icelandic politics, at least from the beginning of the Icesave conflict. I don't have to listen to this one more trip. I was hoping to do it. A senator would give us some political explanations that have not been made on why the government wants to disappear from the project proposed by 2015 has actually been turning it into its opposite direction by paying special awards to those who have not been prepared to contribute to economic development and are now planning to subtract it by evading its demand, which was so called when the plans were introduced at the outset. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u88	Mr. President. I have in this discourse for another occasion. Especially for what he accomplished as prime minister in his day. But I don't understand, and I don't understand. A senator just has to put up with it, how he can avoid seeing that we are now taking one of the final steps that were aimed at. A senator who is prime minister, to free us from the capital. We have to. I'm just saying, nobody in this council hall is supposed to be happier, but instead it has a reason. A senator asks why political changes have taken place. Of course, the reasons for capitalists were unprecedented, economic conditions that few nations have come to know, prerequisite, and the justification for the capital lords of their time. I can't believe that a member of this council hall is going to argue, think it's possible, that they don't fall after seven or eight years of continuous economic growth, when we look at the outside status of the people of this nation never in history, or in history. Senator, be more favorable. [[The president calls.]] Why doesn't the senator understand that the grounds behind the capital authorities have fallen out of force, and I don't know what to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Our justification for keeping the budget in here - which we don't have, we don't have the money, we don't have this money - there's no justification for it anymore. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u89	President's insistence on what? Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u90	A respectable president. We, in the sense of the Kingdom, did not have the funds when the oceans were placed on. And it is true that they were put on with the evidence that circumstances were unique, that is, an economic emergency requiring unconventional action. But that is why it was written that any action presented would have to be kept in hand, that one would have to be done, that it could not be arranged in such a way that any part of those who were under the control of the tools, while others might benefit from refusing to participate and wait, would skim over the success we were always convinced of, well meant, even though he became even more than we hoped. We were always convinced that success was possible. That is why it needed to be sure from the beginning that one thing would pass over and those who did not want to have it would have to suffer the consequences. [[The president calls.]] This fundamental policy is now removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u91	Mr. President. The government's work programme was primarily designed to ensure economic stability. A senator, and that the population's payment system would be sustainable. However, it was decided that a precautionary point would not be guided to create a national capital escape when restrictions were lifted from domestic investments. The basis for other measures to form the stable tax, if any. A senator should be familiar with, and treaties with the demands of the fallen financial companies are to be made on this basis. An analysis of the national market needs for currency was proposed as a basis for this work, as well as for determining the success of the foreign currency as a foreign currency market. [[The president calls.]] Now there's only a good deal of other circumstances, because it all worked out, okay? Senator. It all worked. And that's why we're in position to ensure normal capital movement between Iceland and other countries. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u92	The President's still on trial for what. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u93	Mr. President. I have to admit to talking about what. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, surprised me a little bit. I had allowed myself to assume that and at least It is hoped that some of the many questions raised here will be brought to light. I didn't really expect the meeting to be overreached. The financial and business committee, much less with the number of decibels I thought, may mean his history. But for this to go away, I'd like to say that it's a fundamental piece, which at least... I have made a big effort in this discussion, which is the Management Board of Iceland and Iceland's Secret Bank since 2015 where there is a basis for what is generally considered successful, and most of all has been successful. A senator had many good words. There is a red thread in the plan to achieve this economic collapse that, for the so-called African property, there will be an auction source. The question is, Why is it now gone? This is the question: What money will the state fund possibly be due to this change in policy because of the decision to disappear? And while we're at it, maybe if we're setting up here for more data collections and information collections at the scene. The financial and business committee would be very interesting to know which funds have been provided since it was recorded, but it is partly traced to a paper with the bill on how it was being carried out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u94	Mr. President. I assume the Central Party representative asks them questions as a matter of course. A senator threw in a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee afterwards. True, I thought, and somehow I felt like most members of the council who had spoken up did not realize why February 26 was so important. I was trying to explain this in my talk earlier. I think it was new for some senators, at least who participated in the discussion without even reading the bill's report. But let it lie in between things. The deduction process has gone smoothly. And as I said earlier, economic situation has probably never been better than it is now. There are red marks in the air, not in the currency market, but in the economic world. The payment equation has become self-sustained. The foreign state of the nation's population is stronger than ever before. The debt of state funds has dropped from 90% to 30% of the total domestic product. The Secret Bank's currency supply is 26% of national production and, to a large extent, financed here within the country. Off-country posts are 3.1% of land production. This is the result. In other words, the fundamental candidates behind the possession of an amputees are no longer present. They are no longer available. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're taking one of the final steps to decommission this bill. I hope so. The members of the Central Party will only accompany the rest of us on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u95	Mr. President. Not anymore. It's just not about that. This is about how this case will be completed at these final stages. Nor is there any disagreement on the goal of getting out of capital capitals. It's just a question of the danger of carrying out the project. This was a very difficult task, a global expert was used to prepare a special kind of auction, and the Sea Bank was entrusted with the project. Why is this gone? These are just simple questions, Mr. President. These are simple questions: What amounts of money may be made possible by a government fund? Where is the assessment of the effects on the crew of the Crown? Where is the assessment of the effects on index? Where is the assessment of the impact on the core financial institutions? These are simple questions, but we must want to make informed decisions on matters, large and small. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the big cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u96	Mr. President. It's called, "Where's the assessment? Where's the food? Here's the bill, here's the report and the comment in 6.3, impact on the Sentencing Bank and Pension market. [[Up front.]] This is it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u97	Do you see any number there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u98	It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. [[The point is: What is the logic?]] Wait. Why did they call you what? The senator did not follow that information and pointed it out, e.g. at the beginning of the discussion of January 22, or the Central Party's representative on the subject. The Economic and Business Committee? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Why do people point this out now? [[Up front.]] Just stay calm. When we get to the end of this discussion, hopefully with respect, we'll have a meeting at the Economic and Business Committee. Then they can arrange for members of the council to request more information if they are already out of range, which can happen here in the next hour. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for coming here for the discussion, but I would have liked to have him in here sooner. I'd like to enter two points, starting with the fact that the action, plan, and end of the plan that was set off by 2015, is not the situation that justifies it today. The situation is that by the end of 2016, just over two years ago, the EFTA monitoring agency, ESA, came up with an opinion related to two cases referred to in the Agency, as per permission of the President: ▪ The EFTA (EU) department has completed two reviews due to a complaint about national legislation on property. The laws involved are part of the operation of the Icelandic government to free capital capital. ESAs believe the legislation is in accordance with the EEA Convention. This is two years ago. Although things have improved since then, it is not the fundamental change that has occurred during the two years that tells us that people are throwing away the position that was imprinted in 2015 and that they were part of the overall plan. This is completely absurd because when ESAs give this opinion and come to this conclusion, it is clear to everyone that the processing of the case will take some time. The point position at the end of 2016 is not looking out. I don't know any man who thought that a case had developed in that way over the two years, considering that the ESA must have been looking for a time to come, that such a radical change has become in the situation that our situation has not yet been realized. In this context, I'd like to ask you why. A senator will see whether he will resist because he believes that we would lose the case in a court of law, and he would have to pick us up on that basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u100	Mr. President. My position is not shaped by some kind of fear that we might lose some language. My attitude is influenced by the conviction that it serves the interests of the people of the nation best to take this step that we have been making all these years. I don't understand why it is so difficult for some members of the council, some of my distinguished middle-class friends, to rejoice. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason asked me: " Wait, what has changed since ESA decisioning in 2016? True, the ESA determined that the Icelandic government was determined to work to ensure that capital capital capital gains would be removed, as the Icelandic government has always promised, according to all the commitments we have applied, not only in the EEA but also with the World Bank, the World Bank, the World Bank, OECD, etc. We are on our way to fulfilling these international commitments. It's the right thing to do. I hope so. Central Party Congress members participate in that operation but do not try to make it suspicious because it is not suspicious because it is the wisest and best we can do for the European public and the Icelandic economy. It's that simple. What has changed since 2016 - ESA? Well, the decontinental force has, for example. decrease, max. President, about 112 to 120 billion. [[The president calls.]] That's quite a bit, there's 84 billion left. We are trying to complete this and establish a healthy environment in foreign investors and the environment for Icelandic investors abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u101	Still sharpens the president for what. Councilmen showing respect for deadlines and not trying to test the patience of a non - major president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is just these political decisions that we have found to be in desperate need of explanations and answers in today's and yesterday's discussion. It's, like, cot. Davíð The Gunnlaugsson over the political issues, much more than the explanation of officials we believe we are in the air. The decision is not to let the decontamination process end, that is, political decision. The fact is, when EFTA falls, one of the key leaders there is that equal justice is being maintained against even-priests. The bottom line today is that the crowning owners that most fought against us were the hardest at the time of the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But they're getting the best of care. Of course, that is a political decision. [[The president calls.]] It's not a decision made at the Huns Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u103	Mr. President. I'm gonna try not to walk on top of it. President. I'm sorry that I've been over time repeatedly. I'm going to correct myself, because I told you earlier what had changed since 2016. So the deportation force has decreased by 312 billion, I believe I said 112. 319 billion - 319 billion were estimated, forgiven. [[Up front.]] Of course, we are making demands for other countries. We insist on our business countries, that capitals in this area have access to investments in companies, stocks and bonds in other countries, and that they can cash them without difficulties and bring them back home. [[The president calls.]] That's a political decision. That's right. A senator, when we say, " We want to treat other nations as we want them to treat us. ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u104	A respectable president. I have seldom seen anyone so anxious about bringing good news, if any. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason actually believes he's a publisher of good news here. Well, at least he's backing up a cheerleader with him who's stood up for him. To the small extent that he has explained the implications of politics, I feel that it is a perfect harmony. The head of the Economic and Business Committee says so. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who is a lawsuit we are familiar with from each stage of the great conflict that the Icelandic government has had to face in order to protect the basic interests of the nation. People have often heard that foreigners could not be treated in the way spoken of. We'd have to keep this country open, couldn't head because we had to pay for our own business. Then the investors would stream to the country. Always the same. That's what we're gonna say. A senator, too, as well. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson: There are no more fundamental candidates, the basis for such action. It's interesting to hear this. In fact, I have traced it to several talks here why this argument does not apply, but I have also mentioned that this argument was very often heard when the procedure was being prepared and after they were introduced 2015, since immediately after the start of a new government in 2013, a dramatic economic operation began and it soon began. When representatives of the Icelandic government met the representatives of the hedge fund and presented them with what they could, what outstanding advantages they actually faced, these men pulled out of their missions and said: "Look at you just here. It says in this report that the reasons for this decision are no longer there. Where were these magazines from? From the same Iceland Seyborg bank as that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason at this time gives the most evidence that there is no longer any basis for defending the rights announced by Iceland in 2015 that it would protect. The Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee no longer exists, no more than the criteria for 2015, in the opinion of the representative of the hedge fund. There is a fundamental part of this, and it cannot be overlooked that when the action was introduced, people were aware that it would produce results and the situation would soon be much better. That is why the finality I have discussed had to be arranged several times so that while others were paying for the cost, they could not wait to skim the cream. What kind of country do we want to be, huh? As in early times, a member of the body of elders was protected from external appeals and illegal demands. Well, we expect to be a land of rights and land on which there's a goal. It has now been over 20 years since the large Asian financial crisis. There, for the development of South Korea, those who did not agree to participate in government solutions are still trapped. I don't know that some senators are trying to tap through the bills to get the person out. No, they knew what their prospects would be if they did not participate in the action that men considered necessary. As far as I know, South Korea is doing quite well economically and people like to do business with that country, a country they've already shown that it meant what it announced in 1998. But here it is. The head of the Economic and Business Committee that criteria are no longer available to follow the proposed plan. When asked what changed since 2016, when the Secret Bank introduced its plans, the main answer is that the Offspring's Taurus is less than then. In other words, exactly what I've been talking about: It's accepted by the head of the Economic and Business Committee: Yes, because there's so many gone, the desserts can get better contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Let's talk about it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee was before many things for everything. At least I was saying that I could help with the discussions and answer some of the questions raised by members of the council that have not been given the opportunity to discuss this with the committee's chairman before. But I'd like to think about it at the moment. A senator would tell me just what to do when I am not speaking at all. The head of the committee had endured it or tried to deny that if the way had been started with 2015, we would be getting a much better result today. Then we'd be getting a higher price, more money than this play of the Federal Bank and the head of the Committee, which seems to be in bed. That's why I ask if it's right after all. A senator, chairman of the Committee, did not argue that much better could have been done. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason here said in his speech that it's best to do this. He said it was the best way to do it without any rationalizing that it was. Well, maybe. One senator explained why this could possibly be the best way at the same time when it is known that there had been another way of returning more money to the treasury? I'll get to the second thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u106	A respectable president. I didn't know what to do. A senator, like others, tried to argue that if they had followed the plan, this would not have yielded better results. It is, in fact, impossible to claim and therefore impossible to claim that humans are here to go the best way. If they really believed that this was the best way, would they be more proud of it? Those who are trying to get this bill through? So perhaps they would have trusted in a few talks to explain to the rest of us why this is the best way to do this. I guess they would have even tried to make something of this matter rather than, like, what. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, actually, came in only without explaining it, trying repeatedly to slip it through here? First, at the last moment, on the last day of Congress, trying to get it on a schedule that had not been expected and then to reroute the matter almost at the same time as the council had been upset by illegal action on a certain group of members of Congress. The secretary of finance here will shoot into the hall and speak quickly for over six minutes, and that is considered a delivery of a 1st. this case. If men really thought this was the best way and good news, as another fairly old head of the Economic and Business Committee said earlier, then wouldn't the government have presented it as one of its big issues, that it was being released here? No, that was not a reason. Rather, when most people are not paying attention to it, they look for opportunities to pass it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u107	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. It is obvious that the case offered by the head of the Economic and Business Committee was not about our questions or concerns but only about justifying the Chairman himself that it would have to be completed in the manner suggested in the committee's opinion and prospectively by the Navy bank and by the committee. There is something else that has not been explained beyond what was seen. The head of the Economic and Business Committee and it's that the situation is no longer in place to proceed with the proposed plan of 2015. Who does that? Who decides that such a situation is not there? Hv. A senator correctly mentioned examples, in fact from Asia or South Korea, where men have been for decades or for years trapped by certain property. There are some rules. A senator knows about this? Is there any valid standard? Is it not just our assessment of the time when these seas can be completely removed and by what means? At least there is. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson did not try to explain to us how that assessment is conducted, with what logic and who has had that opinion, except for perhaps the Chairman of the Committee himself, that now the situation is that we can no longer justify continuing with the program set off with 2015. Only to carry volleyball from the head. The head of the committee, of course, is a bit since men began turning off the path, began to yield, and now the Chairman is going to finish that case completely with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u108	A respectable president. Regarding the question of who should determine when the situation is no longer in existence, it is determined to view comparison as a dog. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned earlier. Let's compare this with the summer of 2016. The economy was then much brighter than it is today. The appearance of currency sources, e.g. Because of tourism, it was considerably brighter than it was now, but the crews in places similar to where it is today. It was then the Court's assessment that the lowest price that could be offered to these Afghan owners, those who would play along, would be 190 k. So when the situation was actually better than now and the expectations were better, it was not premise to offer less than 190 bucks, since the bank then introduced it to be in line with what was suggested in 2015. They were still thinking about following the proposed plan. It is possible to answer that question as to when various situations exist. I'm going to add at least one other answer. We've heard of the Chairman of what? The economic and commercial committees that he quotes extensively from the assessment of the system, some of the market and the assessment of the system. I can fully understand that by 2015 the system was assessed that circumstances were out of place to attack our actions. In fact, I'm pretty sure that the assessment of the system would have always been that circumstances were not there to take action that would result in the results known to man. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u109	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, gave an interesting talk. First, though, I would like to thank him for one thing that was positive to the talk. It was filled with theological thought, which is praiseworthy. Hv. A senator spoke of joy. There he is likely to witness to the Philippians (4:4). And then he says that we should treat other nations as we would like them to treat us. It all sounds really good. Thank you. A senator for that. However, I do not completely understand his language when it comes to term use. He's talking about self-sufficiency and investability. I think it's necessary that he clarify the meaning of these terms and what interests are bound to them. Is this a permanent situation? The will of investors sounds like speculation. I expect that. A senator will explain. I'm just going to step back to the spring moon of 2016, when deportants were given legal advantages. The law was about to melt, as it were, the so - called leftover hand of about 319 billion years ago. so that further emissions of capital capital capitalized by Iceland could be used for several years. The matter was finalized in the temporary release process and collection of deposit supplies, analysis of the balance of the Icelandic economy, and contracts with the demanding banks. We know the methodology, and it has been discussed. In simple terms, it was that landowners were offered two advantages. Another was that the owners would agree to sell their crowns at a point. The noncooperative citizens of the Off-counters who refused to participate in the invitation had another chance to get out of the Icelandic economy in even worse terms. Then the instructions were that if they had not taken out their money, it would be unclear when they had received access to their possessions again. You should quote the bank manager, Már Guðmundsson, who made this a point in the morning's issue that they would endeavor to have them at the end of their disposal, in the back row. So you ask: " What changed, and why? It's gonna need some time. That's one of the key questions why. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunsson came in earlier, which must be answered. It's one of the most interesting things to do here. Seven senators from the left green, as well as the Piratars, were sitting by to save the bill for the national shipment in the spring months of 2016. On the other hand, left green, and probably Pirantar, too, will support this bill that is inferior to the government fund. This is interesting and would be a reason for answering from the left green in this regard. Why did they sit by at the deportation of 2016, which gave a good witness for government funds, but will they support this bill that is much less important in the interests of the state's funds? I hope to have a chance to have a word with some of the members of the council left green about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u110	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I am still very thought - provoking after a talk. The head of the Economic and Business Committee because I thought that he would shed more light on the matter that was not at all. But it was shown, but perhaps not clear enough, with the Chairman who may have. More clearly, the type of people who owned the crown property involved. Actually, I couldn't write it down completely. For he claimed that I think it was different from these hedges. But it doesn't change who it is. Of course, the matter is about what is available. Of course, if these parties had come into the position of having to get out of this, it would have been good for a government fund to get as much for it as possible. It is also of interest to note that the decision could not be better than the one mentioned here is expected. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Did he notice somewhere in the speech of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee that he reasoned on why he felt that the completion of the case in this way would be best for Iceland's interests to finish this part by not asking for the prices or numbers that men used at 2016 when, as noted, the economic situation was even better or not worse than it is today? Did the senator notice that there was some lack of logic?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. In fact, I noticed that there was something else that I could do. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, did not argue with this, simply said that we middle-class members should be happy and share in supporting this bill. It is clear to me that there is insufficient evidence to show why the demands of the crew are allowed out of their currency, selling their dollars for currency at this level. I ask again: If we compare this with the spring of 2016 and the invitation then what changed at that time? This is a very important question that must be answered. Hv. A senator also mentioned the problem. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said it was part of a hedge fund. But it's just that it's basically part of a hedge fund and behind the hedge fund, or rather in front of them, operates an American fund control company that is not going to work in the interest of fund control. I remember the crowning property that is going out right now is well over 40% owned by a single fund, and then it's under the construction of this U.S. management firm. It is quite clear that we are here on a scale of funds and fund management companies, which have treated the Icelandic government badly and have refused to participate in the early stages of development and have no reason to award a higher level as shown in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u112	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, we are little closer to why these dates are important. I cut it by what I did. The head of the committee said that he spoke of some sort of danger without specifically arguing. The fact that there are only two material meetings is very special because there is no use in referring to a meeting where the matter is sent for discussion. 13 Requests were sent and three turned in reviews, and I have already read them and must say that they are a little one - sided, to be said, at least similar. There is, however, one who stands out a little bit. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to ask the senator if it would not have been reasonable for this matter to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees wholeheartedly with the senator that this bill has received far too little publicity. It's a good question for us to consider why we brought it in here. We know this story, and I remind you that when this successful route of liberation was presented at its time by a former prime minister, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnuga, Gunnlaugsson, it was done in such a way that the people knew where we were going. This presentation was very successful, and, of course, the government at that time and the former prime minister was proud of that work because it was enormous and natural that it would be well presented to the public so that the public would know what it would be and what it would bring to the common people. [[The president calls.]] It's not for going as far as this bill is concerned. So they sneak in here, and it's kind of like the government's being ashamed of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. Hv. A senator did well with information that turned to the owners of these crowns and so on. But in that context, since he represents the Central Committee on Fundament Committee, my question came to mind: Is this matter and the effect that it may have been discussed on a budget or something above my head? Not long ago, a memo or report, at least, was provided on a financial committee that I think I have seen a copy of that was talking about risk factors for the work ahead of us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he sees this play together. Are there effects that could be identified in the documents that framed the risk factors in the earlier financial work? Or is this case, this reduction of the sea, so small and simple in the mind of those who think it is not a reason to view it as a risk factor in the financial work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's very good because it's important. Of course, this matter should have been discussed within the financial committee and especially when there were risk factors for the coming financial programme and the work involved and then the general financial work. Here, huge financial resources are naturally discussed within the committee. This has not been done, and, as a matter of fact, for the first time this morning was discussed within the committee. That's because the person here was asking. The economist was a guest of the committee this morning, and I asked what effect they felt it would have on the floor's position when this high amount, 84 billion, leaves the country. The answer was just what the report says, good if it was not quoted: It would not be effective. This was no further clear, and I must say that I was disappointed. But this is what I've been doing within the committee in terms of this big case. This seems to have had no greater weight than it does, which raises some questions as to whether governments are over their heads aware of how this major issue can affect the economy, financial programmes. There may be reasons to adopt financial policies. It is strange how little the subject has been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for the answer. In this context and the following, I would like to ask you why. A senator's view of this matter is presented in section 6.4 of the bill on how to influence the wealth of the state. It shows the opinion of those who work hard to see that this decision has no effect on their financial resources, no income, and no fees. How is that gonna hit the legal committee approach, if you don't mind me asking?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I have to say, when I saw this at the report, I was amazed. Actually, it reminds me that the changes in the bill will not have a significant effect. Then you ask, "What does that mean? " How much money is there? Such a statement must naturally be made with logic. There must be some stage photos, at least It should be easy to set up some stage photos: How many percent of the crew drops, how does that affect the income and the expenses of the state's budget? We naturally know that they will then be more expensive to the land as government funds must survive, such as. ... atprescriptions. This is a very important question, and unfortunately it is not answered in the report that shows that this work is not properly planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u118	A respectable president. After a talk, I find it interesting. A senator would consider the picture that we will face if we look at evolution only from the spring months 2016. Of course, we've been remembering that all of this is based on the major plan since 2015 or that it was supposed to be, the treatment of the Off-counters. But let us not look further than 2016. There were reports such as this from the News magazine under the headline: ▪ I want to put the owners of the land to an advantage. It tells of the sudden attendance of a meeting to introduce a bill to the Supreme Court. A financial minister who was now the same financial minister to set in motion certain measures to free the 319 billion that were then present by those so - called deportations. And what was the situation in the economy when governments felt that it was justified to quickly appoint their landowners for outstanding advantages, as it is said here, and to make a meeting? At that time, economic prospects were better than they are now. At that time, currency prospects were better than they are now. Got it. A senator will succeed, as we heard only in the past. A chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, that the situation in the economy now does not justify the actions considered justified in 2016 that were quickly announced for a meeting to set them up? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is of interest to note how he puts it out of the way. I have to say, I was very surprised at the presentation of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, in this regard. We just see the conditions in society today. There's uncertainty ahead. Companies are free and have actually ended talks, and they are heading for strikes and a lot of uncertainty in this regard. We don't know exactly how things are going, and from then on, there is a predictable recession in the economy. Today's newspapers tell us that the building sector is indentified. There are all these signs that make the economy less uncertain. At the same time, you will have a bill that can significantly affect the economy, the success rate, inflation development, etc. Then you ask, "Why is this matter going on so fast? " Initially, it was hoped that it could be taken care of in one day. Then you ask: Is there any other interests behind which we have not received information? It would be interesting to know. It is hard to find out who are the owners of these off-countries who are about to switch into a precious currency and take them out of the country, so there are many questions that raise questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u120	Mr. President. Yes, questions arise that in the spring of 2016, when prospects were better than today, governments have felt justified in setting up an off-countees at this point, but, as it stands, conditions in the economy are darker are not justified. It's very peculiar. You wonder why. We have not received any political explanations for this trend. We've had traditional, well-known quotations in the market and that the system wants things like that and gay. It can be, in the opinion of the wile. A senator that this is just another confirmation that we're stuck with a system government, not a political government, not a government with a particular vision but a government that is actually controlled by the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's pretty clear that we're sitting at least A government who lacks the strength and the courage to act in the way that is to be done in this matter. There's nothing to be indulged in. They're supposed to stick to the original plan. That, including, matters. Our credibility goes beyond that, and there is no reason to award this fund that did all to undermine Icelandic governments and, as I have mentioned before, try to influence elections, which are strange. Then it is clear to me that there is a government that has no courage to face this treasure as it should. Of course, they're following the course, and they're about to stand up as winners, which they've made to be the law on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u122	V.E.G. President. I wondered about the text in the report that speaks of those who agree with this change. It says, by permission of the president: By bill it is suggested that accounts on the specific boundaries of the law will be changed to allow for the release of their domestic capitals. Now it may be that I misunderstood and read the wrong thing so that all of the landowners are involved and not just some particular group, as one could understand from the words. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee earlier. It's hard to figure that out. However, I miss the fact that it wasn't clear whether it was all the landowners, anyone who owned - including a hedge fund, because of the wind. The head of the Economic and Business Committee specifically mentioned that they were not part of this group, as I understood it. Clearly, we all want those goats to be lifted. There's no question about that. On the other hand, we debate how this is done and whether it is being offered more interests for my memory in some way and in some way. I understand it so that at least they do not deny that there are other options that may lead to better conclusions. At least she kept quiet. The head of the Committee is not for that. So, of course, it is always a political decision or a thoughtful evaluation - and yet, it does not necessarily have to be thoughtful, it may also be scientific, or it may have been through the fact that some circumstances make it possible to finish some matter at a certain point. Hv. A senator and head of the Committee said that it is best to do this now without actually arguing. The only thing that came out of the question was. The senator was that the economic situation was good, and the wealth of the state was very strong. That is true, there is nothing new about it being bright ahead, and we stand strong or look for it. Actually, in 2016 it was a very bright and good look. Therefore, whether the current global labour market situation, free of collective agreements, and the early uncertainty regarding the impact of collective agreements on inflation, as well as all we know, could lead to a less impressive trend ahead of time. Indeed, our locality stands firm. It is not to be denied, thanks largely to the means by which men take up the road to relieve capital goats. And of course, because they did not take on the so - called Icesave commitments, which were far too many in this chamber simply fighting in its own time that the nation would take on their shoulders. We know the aftereffects well. It is, therefore, that I still know - and maybe should have been, but I'm going to give it a warning because I thought the Chairman of the Committee explained it well enough, unless that particular group of people in question were composed to use a different law than other African owners. It needs to be reasoned better, and it may have to be applied to you so that you can trust it and believe it. A respectable president. Even if we keep talking here, the issue doesn't get much smaller. This is still a rather vague and enormous matter that we need to get to the bottom of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u123	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I would like to ask if he believes that after the discussions that have been conducted here, we are closer to the number of this campaign, i.e. in the offer that humans are walking away with now, 84 billion, what's on the bill we're talking about here. Has it somehow become clear why this number is selected, but do not seek to have it higher, as it has been pointed out here, that it might be set up in the United States at 13◯23 billion dollars.? I'm asking you, first of all. Second, count him. A senator said that it is the proper approach that came out of a second fine speech. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, putting up companies as good and bad as I thought it would be. A senator does in his speech? I have believed that financial companies are generally no Boy Scout Clubs, but, of course, they are not to be viewed as selfish but only with the fact that they are involved in a company that is made up of it, of course, to maximise their profits in the business they are involved in. So it is not to be expected that they will be ready for some smooth agreements, just so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u124	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. Of course, a senator's business or business members are in it to do their pound or to get some results. At least you believe that it is normal. Of course, there are other theories, that the State should take care of everything, that the profit and the like should not necessarily be returned. I have not yet received an explanation for the reason why the above talk is the right one. I've read the committee opinion, read the reviews, read the bill and the report, and I haven't found it - I may have overlooked it - the reasons for it. It doesn't change that we're talking about all the other amounts and all the other solutions that we didn't start with, as we've repeatedly pointed to and called for reasons why people are going this way right now, continue to back away from what was set up. The only answer we have received is that it is best without reasoning on how to reach that conclusion. I missed it in a talk. The chairman of the Committee spoke of good business. I don't think it's in itself right to divide it. Perhaps you yourself fall into the trap of dividing companies. Everyone is, as shown in my case earlier, most at least, in this to have something out of it, which is just the nature of the business and nature of those who run a business. Those who do these transactions with credit or currency exchanges are no different from others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u125	V.E.G. President. I cut it at the end of the day. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke in his speech earlier that the way in which this bill is called is the one we've been discussing for a few moments is the one. I couldn't hear myself that argument for that opinion why. A senator who convinced me that it was. Got it. A senator felt that there is sufficient evidence to support the claim that the route here, i.e. to let out or release 84 billion on today's gang is the best way for land and nation to go?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u126	V.E.G. President. I know why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson very well. I remember when I was one summer slave with him at the Sports Stadium, where he was my boss, and he didn't have any trouble showing why we should go to the work that was there. I know that the senator is very easy to reason on why he feels that this is the way he is or anyone else. But I don't think he's had it in his speeches today. It may be deliberate, or just that the senator believes that it does not need to be done. It is natural, too, if thought so, but we have called for it. The fact that this is the only right thing or the best thing that can be achieved is something that I'm not sure was reasoned on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u127	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. He was even. wondering what you might read from a talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who is chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, and I was actually doing the same thing in my place. We have wondered much about the situation that exists and why this is the case and why it is difficult to find answers to the questions we are asking. We may have had good hopes of getting clearer answers in our speech. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. He quoted a lot from the bill and in its report, and you've already gone through it, and there they are not available or the answers to these questions. On the other hand, the chairman became informed about the high position of the nation's population, which is truly true. We've been wondering why it's like this, people don't get up, and now I'm gonna be careful because I'm not gonna get a storm from the highest. President for saying something unacceptable. Actually, there was another person in a pit when I received them a crop. The Senator says, "Why don't you rejoice over this? " It is such a good place in the world that you are just to rejoice that, at last, this matter is about to end, although the drafting sound may take a few crowns out of the window and they disappear into the wind, which is hard to say. [[The president calls.]] Rejoice, it's kind of the answer. Come on. The party's not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u128	V.E.G. President. Of course, we rejoice when we personally graduate from the environment we were forced to create here. It was not as if politicians or governments or any of those people wanted to get into the situation here. This has turned into an economic collapse, and people are dealing with it, but we are under obligation to make the right decisions. It was the right choice to set the 2008 emergency law. However, a large number of wrong decisions were made in the late left hand of the government in 2009-2013. There was a time when decisions would have been made, and things would have been far better handled. However, 2013◯2016 learned a large jap, jam, and asked to get it through the system which way would go in an effort to get Iceland's right position. It was this three - part route that has been so much discussed here. The objective, of course, is that we have no authority here, that we have the same environment as other countries. But we are so fortunate to be in our position that the way we took it makes us feel far better than governments forced in other types of action to cope with the same problem. I mention Greece, which may be the most clear example, but of course many other European countries had to take all kinds of action to try to get their place. While we rejoice when lifts are possible, of course we insist that this be done in a certain way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u129	Mr. President. I thank the senator for this. Senators have also been wondering about the weight that seems to be from capital owners to get out, that this date we've been talking about, yesterday, is the day that this case needs to be handled. Other than that, you may well understand that the hedge fund wants to go out. There are many signs of cooling economy, and many factors indicate a loss of money. Travelers are on the rise, strikes are imminent, hairyness is becoming a fact, and so forth, looking for the weakness of the crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u130	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize to the senator. All I had to do was step aside, so I missed a little portion of his speech. Of course, it is vital that we stay at the top of the order of getting as much of the property as possible or out of the position we are in. This is why we should use the methods we have. We have proved this to be true and have reasoned that this is why we have the authority to do so. If people choose other ways and think it's better, I think that just saying it's the best part, because we're doing so good. This is not good if we are leaving certain funds, which indicates that there is something that is being done because people have not adhered to the original plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u131	President. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee spoke a lot about the calendar in his special speech earlier and little about how this case had to do with some political vision. His comments about the calendar, and what had happened every day, were interesting to me. They're likely to be killing things out there. When you count everything together, it's gonna look like too much coincidence. Let's review, first that the matter came in suddenly on the last day of the council, December 14, last year, and that it was tried to slip through at once on the first day, as it seemed, preferably without discussion. In fact, it was just by chance that we discovered these plans and, of course, asked that nothing would happen, since we were opposed. It appeared here again on January 22, while the President of Generalis had put everything in the air at the council, and they found it all over here because of other matters. However, I had noticed that they would use this opportunity to slip through it thinking that they would give a talk but would not even have time to pick up my magazines from the next house, since the top was there. The minister of finance snuck into the platform and finished a talk over six minutes instead of 30 minutes in place of his arrangement. I can't trace my calendar any more in this counter-reference than when it all comes together on the progress of the matter here at the council, does it not begin to look like a case that the government would like to hide rather than a case she's proud of?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u132	A respectable president. I've had the impression that they're not too proud of this matter but have led them to believe that it's important and good to finish it, that they're bored. Sadly, that is too often, so we see such an attitude. I'm not going to make it up to the politicians themselves that they don't feel tired or that they don't want to think about or think about things. On the contrary, I think most people are ready for it. Of course, when the pressure is elsewhere and we eat it down in humans, we are likely to let one get out of the way unless they are much more cautious. I don't feel that I've been given convincing reasons for this speed needed to be on it. Marks were to be wrong on December 14. The day before, everything was due to be in force, but nothing has yet happened. There may be some genius out there who are avoiding it. I don't know how to say it. It is quite clear, however, that such a big issue, as one would have felt, required more than two meetings to pass through, even though only three envelopes were received. Unfortunately, on December 14, I was far from enjoying myself. The senators have told me that men were a little surprised that the case would appear then and on January 22, they simply thought that the matter would be kept until the next day, and therefore it would not be ready when it returned. Of course, all of this is a follow - up explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u133	Mr. President. Yes, it is strange how this matter has been held. It is of particular interest, of course, to put it in context of a case delivered by the government in May 2016 when an emergency arose. But then it was about putting it, as it was put in a headline in the News magazine, to deportants of choice. Now, two years later, when economic and economic prospects are not as good as 2016, it is claimed, and used as evidence for the timing of the situation, there is no longer a situation to do what was urgent when conditions in the economy were better than now. Got it. Is this going to work for a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u134	A respectable president. We see that the work market in Iceland is a bit cloudy rather than bright. There's a lot to believe that there's going to be a lot of work to be here and it's actually starting. I hope you can avoid it. I'm not interested in the fact that there's a whole line of fire lying in the middle of a job dispute. Thus, as in 2016, it is not possible to say that the measures taken would bring enormous sums of money into a government fund. However, it was the ones who followed the decision to disappear, and it happens in the middle of 2016, that people simply change their gear and fall away from the good plan that was going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u135	V.E.G. President. Here we are still discussing a bill to correct a change in the legal handling of crowns that depend on the specific restrictions and currency laws, national emissions, and acquiesces of capital charge. This case has been scheduled since about three o'clock yesterday. The discussion continued until evening and late into the night, almost at dawn. It was due to be half past six this morning when a meeting was scheduled, and then the case was continued today, scheduled for a meeting to continue to discuss it. We've been trying to find out why this case is being handled by the method that has repeatedly shown that we are unconcerned in the Middle East. We cannot see that the people's interests are kept in honor. We do not understand, and we have asked why it was not continued on the course that was beginning with a capital crisis and published in June 2015. It held the stable conditions and tax on the shores of the fallen financial institutions in high esteem so that the nation could enjoy money for themselves. It's been up until now that we don't have it figured out whether the bill was being passed, as was the case in that program. We are not. We are told that we do not have to worry, but we are concerned. We had high hopes for it, I did it at least, when it was. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was speaking today, president of the Economic and Business Committee, explaining that he could shed some light on the matter and explain it to us but he said that the answer was in the bill, we just needed to read the report. I've read the report. I have to admit that sometimes I'm a little dyslexic, but my associates in the Central Party and I agree that the report doesn't answer the question we've been looking for. That's not a plan. It's not an answer that tells you how this will depend on you. It may be possible for a population of 20 billion if the route that this bill is about and now takes less than that. Yet, that cannot be said. That question still hangs in the air and remains behind all that time. But because we are late tired of trouble, we stress ourselves. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was told about the economic situation and asked us members of the Central Party why we couldn't just be happy about this. That's when you get the feeling, because of what you're doing. A senator cannot answer these questions to the skin, that there is a worm in his mouth regarding his own lack of clear identification. He also spoke extensively about the changed criteria. When you get these answers, you have to go through the gaps and I'm not good at it in this matter. [[The president calls.]] I have to state that I still haven't changed my opinion on the bill and I'm really worried.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-27-71.u136	Mr. President. There are a number of peculiar aspects of this subject and its contents. There have also been a number of peculiar developments during the council. Repeated attempts have been made to slip it through with various developments that you have seen in the past when governments do not want much attention. But then they bite their heads off by coming up and complaining that the members of the Central Party did not talk enough about the matter in the past and, at the same time, complain that they are talking too much about the matter right now. Um... which, of course, is the basic question of law launching. But let's leave it to each other for a while. The nature of this matter, as I mentioned, is in many ways strange. It is strange how the matter has been discussed at the council or how much discussion has been made on the part of those who expect the Council to make it legal. That's the only way one's got one. A member of all the classes who seems to support this matter was given a talk in the district of 2 Corinthians. First, by reading a six - minute presentation or then by means of a talk before, which was in many ways extremely peculiar but did not contain much political bitch. You see, there is absolutely no political explanation for the way we have seen it. Instead, the system's will, as it were, is quoted, including the international financial system and the importance of Iceland's grace in that town. That is a discussion that we have heard in the past many times about one subject and another. But the fact that no other member of the board or representative of any of the other classes who are going to support this case has trusted to come up here, I don't talk about anybody trusting in support of this political thing, is in every way peculiar. The explanation that it is no longer preconceivable to preserve oceans, which were considered to be not just fatal but essential 2016, because the economic situation has improved so much, of course, do not keep water as you see the end of the world, was a more economic rating of 2016 than it is now. We've been worried that this case would break up without a discussion, as seemed to be adjourned. However, there is evidence that the matter will be discussed in the Economic and Business Committee between 2 and 3. I have been assured that after that meeting, the matter will not be quickly admitted back into the council to finish it at night but will be passed through 3. I'll have you out tomorrow. Whatever the outcome, we can resolve the matter in any way, in bright and opportunities, after a meeting for men to consider the matter for those who seem not to have studied it, and hence they are not prepared to discuss it. But I hope we get 3rd. hearing more about the opinion of the supporters of the case as to why it is right to agree. In view of this conclusion, in view of the fact that the matter will not be run through here tonight, I believe it is safe to wait with a few things I would have wanted to mention possibly in more speeches tonight but try to give them a cut-off tomorrow.
