ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u1	At a meeting of the trade committee yesterday, January 29, Elíasdóttir Flandersd was elected daughter of Elias.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u2	A respectable president. In these days the government's campaign group was presented with a report on increased availability of apartments and measures to improve housing status. The 40 - member group has been well accepted and is a good entry into the hearts of conversation and steps toward making peace with a labour market and should be a good foundation for solving the country's accumulated housing problems. However, while a good foundation is needed, a good foundation is only half a victory and must be taken as soon as possible. Many people do not have to comment on the problem of housing, but the situation in which younger people are affected is one of the worst among younger people and less wealthy ones. In this context, the number of homeless people has doubled in the past five years and is the fact that no one is proud of. How ironic, then, that housing matters are still kind of a homeless group. While decisions have been made in order to unite the group under one hat, much further could be taken, since housing issues are still too scattered in the management system and stretch their scents between at least Three suggestions that make it difficult to make decisions quickly and to apply them. In the North countries, such as the U.S.A., housing facilities are available. much better, and more responsible for the litigations than for a single service in each country, and that includes Danir. Special transportation, construction and housing services. Although I'm not suggesting a special agency for housing matters, I ask if not everyone who smells of housing related to reforms in a recent report is united under one Ministry, at least In the days of conversation, however, housing as a whole found a permanent home in time. To ensure early implementation of proposals, it is necessary to minimize complexities and provide the means to make decisions and responsibilities on the project clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u3	Mr. President. I'm here to make a subject of so-called democracy, which may be a new term for you many, known as ◯citizen socience, in English. In 1950, Iceland's glacier research organization, unique on a global scale, was formed here. There large groups, including lay and scientists, are involved in earth - wide research. We know more than that. We know about this from bird studies. We know this from archeological studies, hunters provide some data, and research has taken place in public and data collections, and so on. I'm here trying to speak for a kind of effort on these topics, to expand public participation: to attract more people to such cultures, to increase understanding of the importance of social sciences in the past, and to strengthen cooperation between scientists and the public in this respect. I would show them that there is a clear benefit from this. It's a direct profit, that's education. The public is being educated, we can say, educated the players involved. And last but not least, there's an investigation. By some form of advice, discussion, and proposal - I'm not necessarily saying that it comes from the General Assembly - it needs to create some form of cooperation with those who participate in some way. We have to put some kind of thing, let's say the definitions of these and other factors, and promote democracy in the country by this kind. Well, we face a lot of challenges in our season, as you know. There are these dramatic changes in the environment of all of us. Research and science are a struggle. One way to solve such issues is to enable the public even better than a good story shows. We all need to work at the council Hall to expand and get this job to the best of our lives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u4	Mr. President. In the coming days, the Council is being moved to review the transport committee's proposals for a new transport plan, a revised transport plan. In short, it seems that the treatment of the greater part of the case can be described: More and less money is being taken from the southwest corner and distributed. The inhabitants of the southwestern corner shall receive a special payment for the projects that will be most appropriate for their implementation. There's nothing on public transportation. Nothing is addressed in the city's founding institutions, and there is no response to the urgent need for building up but leaving it as an entirely undefined project until the next autumn. What can be suggested by the suggestion of a greater proportion of the committee, although unexploited, is proposed somewhere in the range of 740 billion in additional expenditures at the southwest corner to finance the action to be carried out. And now it should be made clear that, in principle, they are not properly treated and defined, the funds due to the charges are being made solely for the projects they are being charged for. It's totally unclear that this is the case. I think it's quite technical when I look at the plans of the greater part of the same members of Congress, and I didn't have a word for the plans of the previous government for a 4 billion rise in carbon bills, an increase that has actually been carried out to most of this government, it's not a small deal to take care of the budget of 8/10 billion particularly on the inhabitants of the southwest corner. It may help the same members of Congress not to cooperate with us in our climate activities, in measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to strengthen public transport. [[The president calls.]] This is a very fun paradox in the work of the greater part. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u5	Mr. President. That was the case with 1st. The Southern District of the Western Islands was at an airport in town yesterday, where a delegation from the Ministry of Justice recently arrived in town. In the following article, it was found that she was there to inform the locals that from Friday onward, not tomorrow, but the other, there would be no county in the Western Islands. Neither the voters nor the West Side council had an idea of this, in fact, on the contrary, because the last fall was given to them and received the answers, that this very thing was not to be done at all. Later yesterday, the Ministry reported so indiscriminately that the governor, who was in the Western Islands, temporarily disappeared to other jobs at a Council of the County, and temporarily a member of the West Coast without being in the Western Islands, the County Council of the South. And later, in the same announcement, it is said that these changes are in line with the Minister of Justice's plans for government policy and to a bill that would later be submitted to an ongoing council, which would include a series. in that a minister would be permitted at any given time to appoint a businessman over more office than one up to five years old. According to the phrase, a minister may be allowed to appoint only one county official throughout Iceland until five years of age, and he'd probably be in Reykjavík. This is absolutely an unacceptable administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u6	Mr. President. The trouble with the British is not the only team. The whole world is aware of how much crisis, the Bgrets as they call it themselves, they're in. The difficulty is not because the European Union is so grossly bad that it does not want to let the British go. It is all because the British are waking up to the evil dream that they are losing good equipment, a good European relationship that has been their support over the years. They thought they could both own the cake and eat it. Trouble is also common. Because the main fighters in Britain were not saying so. They did not take immediate action. They even promised. part of an exit that didn't work out and then voiced out immediately during election night that they didn't really mean everything they said in the process of an election. That was no support for their claims in the real world. Then we will see that the people who wanted the British to remain in the European Union went into technical cups, apart from the rather weakly leading of the Labour Party. But it remains that both the Scots, the North and the young generation wanted to remain in the European Union. It was middle - aged people and older that set the future for them. This is an incentive for us here at home to walk clean for work and not to have the misleading presentation of information on the subject. Of course, I'm looking at the EEA team and the contract. There is a risk of a mismanagement within the board of directors, that the members of the board are taking control of the EEA discussion and threatening the tremendous benefits associated with the EEA community. Therefore, I would like to sharpen all international, liberal, market - minded people to protect the EEA Convention and not allow the hawks to seize power by misleading, or even false, information about the European community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u7	Mr. President. The European Parliament is a common site for 47 Europeans and Iceland, including as we know each other. Last October, the European Council published the results of a study conducted among 80 contemporaneous women in 45 countries. The study was of sexual violence, physical and spiritual, with members of Congress. The results are striking. Every day, women in Europe become sexually violent. More than 40% of the women in the European Parliament have been sexually harassed, and in 70% of the cases, the bacteria are male members of Congress. A sexual comment has been made by 50% or half of the senators since much of the population of bacteria is male members of Congress. What is also striking is the low proportion of these women, or only 20%, of them. The study also shows that the results of these findings for female members are many; anxiety, insomnia, and various health problems, as well as the negative effects on all their jobs and political careers. Mr. President. It is in the hands of our male senators to eliminate this massive lesion that is going on in all European conventions, including this country. The man standing here attended the Council of Europe last week with his head. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir. During the council, the campaign against sexual violence was launched at the council. The campaign, with the permission of the president, is called in English, #notMaryParliament, which may be translated into English not at our assembly. Each member was photographed with this card, as you can see, and members of the council asked to distribute it to the community. I want to challenge the highest. The Council of Congress to have such cards printed in Icelandic, then take a picture of us members of Congress, where we stand together and fight sexual violence against a senator. Hv. Senators, stick together! [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to make a subject of news that came in this morning. We've had a particularly mild winter here. It's just a few cold days in a row, and then we're getting the word that PGE's response plan has to be activated because there may be a shortage of hot water in the capital area. It's a big surprise. This raises questions about the safety of the capital area when it comes to hot water and heating, something we have not been used to having to think about for decades. In order to achieve maximum efficiency of a fossil resource, it is often combined for electricity production and geothermal production. This is how the geothermal production is activated, i.e. the hot water production, at the same time, is used for electricity production. The decision is made by an energy source from Reykjavík that it is a activation stop. It was revealed to us that I knew the consequences. Of course, there is also much uncertainty about the framework plan and its payment, and there may be a limit to the company's planning problems in the East. Of course, there is a need for special consideration. It takes up to ten years, a respectable president, to set up a subway system since the decision is made and until the completion of the procedure. The same is true of electricity production. It takes ten years for a person to decide to build an activation before it is in use. Someone believes that there is no more active force in this country. So we need to answer that question, Where should the energy come from if that policy is to be followed? Hot water and electricity are part of the country's quality of life. We don't have the sun and the coast. We let ourselves have 100 open swimming pools all year around the country, and we've got hot pots, and we're building snow off footpaths and trucks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to give this serious consideration to a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u9	A respectable president. More energy, but now electricity costs for rural areas. There have been long debates about the equal energy costs in rural areas and urban areas at the General Assembly. Sometimes a certain step has been taken in the right direction, but the difference grows back. It's like the snail that crawls up the wall and always goes down again. The situation is a constant insecurity of rural employment. At the end of the year, Rark's price logs increased for the transport and distribution costs of electricity, both urban and rural areas. An increase in urban areas is 1.9% than 2.6% in rural areas, thus increasing by a much greater amount of dollars in rural areas, as the cost was higher. Some of the expansive costs of electricity from a veggie farmer in the island have increased by less than 60% in one year. A farmer has turned off electrical lighting, and a power company has lost a business. There are far too many examples of employment as well as travel services that are competitive because businesses have landed outside a line that is drawn through urbanity on the distribution card. The loss will be everyone. The electronic company loses business when companies give up, the rural population loses employment tools, and society loses value when investment fails. Thus, fewer and fewer depend on the cost prepared for the distribution system. The system will eat itself up from within. One of the initiatives in the current rural programme is to promote an even higher energy costs in terms of both the distribution of electricity and house warming. More goals in government plans are being made in the same direction. I would like to emphasize the collective attitude of the project, not to be viewed merely by homes, homes, homes, and employment. The average energy costs in the country can be applied systematically and collectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u10	A respectable president. There's still more energy. Energy security is about a clear energy policy, an offer that meets the needs of the nation, an efficient and efficient rule of action and solid energy for infrastructure. Is there energy security in Iceland? Do we have enough energy to meet our energy needs and can the transport systems of electrical energy improve energy transport? All of these are factors that we must be able to answer because we are heading for a green future. Energy projections estimate that by 2030 our energy needs have increased by 230 MW, with a slower improvement of 480 MW, if compared to the green future. To put it into context, we need nine Whalers to find out. The transfer of energy is another matter. Clearly, there is much work to be done there. Today, nearly all urban areas of the country do not receive sufficient energy for industrial development and electricalizations reject, to name something. Akureyri, e.g. are companies who have to rely on burning oil to meet their energy needs. Power security is a major factor in our approach to the future in the way we want it. To me, it is clear that we must make use of as many initiatives as possible in the country. I am referring to the activation of falling water, wind, and earth's heat, but by activation we always come to influence our environment. This is inevitable. However, the objective of all of us should always be to minimize environmental impacts on such projects. A respectable president. As a nation, we're headed for a green future. Let the action speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u11	Mr. President. At present, 4,000 people in Iceland are waiting for treatment or action. There are 1,000 of them waiting for replacement operations. The mean time for a person to undergo a replacement surgery is 6◯8 or 10 months after having an interview with a doctor who will determine whether or not to undergo replacement surgery. From that time on, the subject will wait up to 18◯20 months after the operation itself. It would be welcome if the government in Iceland would judge people for a long time without trial or law, hundreds of them. But that is exactly what these list of lists do. They make people who are suffering and cannot move naturally; they don't travel around, they don't show up, they don't go to the movies, because they can't have a whole movie show. They ask for aspirin, and we can assume that this 1,000 group, which is currently on the waiting list for a replacement procedure, will eat about one million tablets a year. Meanwhile, there is an opportunity to shorten this waiting list by allowing private Chinese to operate in the city of Reykjavík. They are about to cost you. 1.2 million. K. The adapter. But the health minister and her group don't want it, they hate everything that's personal, and they've got something remarkable, the Independence Party on their way. These same people are ready to send patients to Sweden to private cocaine, where the cost is three times. It's about time for that. 400 people entitled to go to Sweden for such an operation under the European directive. I encourage everyone at home who suffers to take advantage of this right to go to Sweden and get his health, even though it costs a wealth of state three times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u12	Mr. President. Next week, it is estimated that I will represent a case that is very personal and that is of great concern to me. It's a conquistador proposal for total legalization. I'd like to kill a little bit of a paper with the Senate resolution that I plan, as earlier said, will be moving next week. I hope that I can do that, and I hope that I get as much support as possible during the council. In a paper with the Senate resolution, the President's permission states: ▪ Human rights are meant to have material and real meaning. This attitude toward people's rights is reflected in the reading of articles by the Council's resolution on policy and implementation plans on the affairs of disabled people submitted at the beginning of 2012. Then, a minister of well - being, Guðbjartur Hannesson, concluded his entropy speech with the statement that, with the approval of the proposal, the program would remain on the path to protect and ensure that all disabled people have full and equal rights and freedom, as well as working to respect for the inborn procreation of disabled persons. The proposal for a proposed change was later adopted in the General Assembly for the same year, leading to a variety of processes. One of the main features of the strategy was the preparation of the UN Convention for the rights of disabled people. Though there had also been other goals, the work in changing legal laws was part of that process. The need to revise the law has been cast into the background. ▪ The law has been formally proposed to improve the law, including in the reports of the European Commission on torture. The committee has visited Iceland four times and made comments to laws and practices within the mental health system that do not seem to provide adequate access to the user's rights. The committee even did so. serious comments to the lack of specific laws of protection that should be ensured by law. On the part of the committee, it was apparent that neither the current law nor the conduct of the laws met the international commitments. So there was good reason for reviewing legal laws. My Conspiracy proposal suggests that a general review of legal law laws and that a panel of representatives of all classes will do that work. I urge you to come along for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u13	A respectable president. I have previously talked about the new European Parliament and the International Parliament's report on the prevalence of women's contempt, sexual harassment, and sexual violence at 45 conventions, but now again in the cause of events during the past few weeks. The results are striking, like cot. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm was so good. One of them is that 85% of the women have experienced sexual violence based on sexual remarks about appearances, sexual harassment, threats, and oppression. To cope with these disastrous findings, the European Council has advanced in an effort to combat sexual violence and the central harassment. to prepare specific discussions during the council and to improve the rules of ethics. The Icelandic Congress has been regarded as a model, and General's reaction to #metoo's great attention outside the country was aroused. It was good to be a member of Iceland and be able to tell about Barbershop Day here and an update on the protocol. But now it is so embarrassing to be an Icelandic senator abroad. Because there is gender equal rights, people ask about the monastery. Foreign Ministers, members of other Parliaments and members of the European Parliament are asking all about this matter, as Iceland is not at the point when it comes to equality. When it comes to equality, our main pride in international cooperation, we are in great danger. Therefore, it is sad that here the response to the monastery is involved in legal issues that, strangely, usually serve the interests of those who hold a woman contempt or place the matter in their arms on my part of the Generalis. This case has to be resolved. The people's will is clear, and the will of the council is clear. All members of the council supported the changes in Congress regulations that stopped the rules because of #metoo. The objective of these changes was to enable people to do their job without risking sexual harassment and thus contribute to a safe and healthy environment. I encourage the entire U.S.R. to recall what we agreed to do in this hall and not act as if nothing was wrong. Otherwise, there is nothing to determine our fine conclusions. The time has come for the General's reaction to the situation and for the General to take a firm stand against the feminine and its victims. [[The president calls.]] The time has come for us to stop taking the matter out of political poltergeist or to give in to freckle - calling romance. The respect of the Generalis is beneath us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u14	A respectable president. I've told it here in a puzzle that an artist's salary is 392,498, which is almost the target of development, what it takes to survive in this country a month. V.E.G. One prime minister said that they were given for three months, six months, and nine months. There are not many people who receive such a salary longer than this year, and they are marked with specific tasks. Examples have shown that artists have been on the payroll for decades and have worked two jobs. Billions are held at the government's office to eliminate a dollar in return. At the same time, the State is also changing authors' payments so that mental works are considered to be money and are thus taxed, not as wages. Isn't everyone equal to law? 65. g. The constitution says so. Happily, by the end of the next month, the majority of the poor will stop taxing. This was to be done on January 1, but the government's insurance agency did not trust to do so until February 1. We're talking about people, cripples, half the artists, and they're cutting the half of the benefits they earn. Everything's reduced. But we've found the right forwarder target, the right sound base, an artist's prize. No matter what your income is, they don't get hurt at all. That is why we demand that the poor and the elderly sit at the same table. We are under obligation to make sure that there is no discrimination in this council hall. That there be no partiality among the poor, nor among the poor. We know that habitats are still in place. It is damaging people who have no income. We must already demand that we stop doing so, making sure that everyone is equal to the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u15	Mr. President. Yesterday, on Tuesday, January 29, it was reported that the highest. Health Ministers, Svanís Svavarsdóttir, would have sent the Land Hospital and other public health institutions to offer nine specific steps or measures to help repair the lack of nurses. These include work environments, reeducation, equipment, and health benefits. Most important of all, the letter does not mention just the salary of nurses. Also, short - term work days for long - term shift workers are not addressed. What next comes at the ninth point, by permission of the president: A review of other aspects of the work programme, such as time to change clothing before and after shift, will become an active work time and will be evaluated for work ratio/work time. Well, that's a disaster for all of us. Now I must not assume that the factors presented there are not important and that there is no need to improve, as it were. The work environment and the services of the workers have a lot to say. The growing number of training sites, the commitment of time to teach, and the support of instruments to provide as much service as knowledge allows and to create good work conditions, are all excellent factors. However, if it is the thought of reaching the large number of nurses today who are caring for other non - medical jobs, the pay and the duration of the work week are completely fixed. As is the case today, educated people will need to be reached into the medical institutions to expand the number of training sites, in order to be able to do well in the teaching, which will then increase the number of graduates and other health - care professionals, who hopefully plan to work in institutions where pay, working hours, and working conditions are competitive in other jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u16	A respectable president. It had to come. Once again, getting the banks to a private party is the main sport of the Independence Party. The premeditated privatization process remains at the highest level. Economic and financial ministers who can't wait for the banks to be privateized. We've got one, two, three. The Kingdom cannot profit much longer from banks; it must be put in the pockets of rich people. The independent party was holding the privatization, and I'm not sure that the people had confidence to do it again. Right men view it as a physical law that the most profitable businesses and institutions are in private property, but there is nothing unhealthy about the government's having a bank. The people want at least one bank of state. Let us not forget that in 1886 the Lands Bank began ruling. He survived two world wars and a global crisis, mood swings, and collapse of markets, political conflicts, crisis, and the worst in Europe. The only thing he didn't survive was a personalization. It took the bank's owners over five years to run off. Yesterday I shared a picture in the Facebook of my grandfather, Tryggvi Gunnarsson, who served as a deputy member of the Independence Party in the 1980's. He was an independent man from the old school. He respected the individual's freedom but also knew that the State is a solid foundation for our most important community institutions. He was against the privatization of the banks. I think that's the norm in the national soul. The average Icelanders don't want investors to be their mate to be their privateisation. One woman made a comment at my Facebook transfer last night, where she said she had had enough liberal speech and referred to the direction of the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers. She added: "Why does everything always have to be privateized? A respectable president. The Company doesn't think it's time to discuss bank sales. The track's starting to scare. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u17	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for having a word with me about this enormously important matter. Civil line has become one of those terms that begins to live independent lives, and suddenly people begin to have an opinion of the name of the phenomenon, perhaps more than what lies ahead. But the fact is, if we don't take drastic measures to build up a high - speed public transportation system, we will look forward to the year 2033, which is now just around the corner, President, the speed of traffic in the capital area is about 25% higher than today. This is not if we don't do anything, i.e. We are not going to stop making roads. This will be the test if we take up all the basic projects that must be carried out. Even if we do, they will be lost in the capital area by about 25% more than today. Why, Mr. President? Yes, because a traffic forecast shows that there will be traffic in thirteenth, fourteen years as it is today, i.e. the same proportion of private cars, the same share of public transportation, etc, will increase total traffic by more than 40%. We have built the capital area in such a way, Mr. President, that it rests primarily on the fact that we move between positions of a private car. During the past few years, an attempt has been made to overcome this problem by offering an alternative. While those who choose to use the private car will continue, those who choose to travel in a different and environmental way have more advantages. In fact, a contract for strength was made every year for the building of public transport, 1 billion for 10 years, down to 900 million. So we've been thinking this way. But this is simply not enough. Strong measures need to be taken. The fact that we take more places on public transportation is useful to everyone, including the others, who for some reason I can't imagine taking advantage of public transportation. Fewer cars on the streets of the city and of the capital area simply mean that for those who still choose to travel on private vehicles, the road is smoother. President. We have set ambitious goals on climate. They turn to Iceland as a non-carbon object in 2040. It is early to realize that if we fail to change travel habits, to reduce the way we travel in private cars, we will be able to accomplish such goals, since at this brief period, we can hardly expect the full energy exchange to take place. Energy exchange is a well - paying price, another type of traffic pollution. It comes from rollerbarrows that turn on asphalt. It does not matter whether the car is driven by electricity or gasoline. The self - exhausted vehicles have often been mentioned, that we do not need to promote any public transportation. But self - destructive cars pollute as much as cars with drivers. The evidence shows that we are to attack the city's real structure. Hence, it is satisfying to know how well the government has responded, signed a declaration of will with the rural areas in the capital area. That's why I'd like to know, a respectable president, how the government will further exert itself that the city line will be started and when can you expect the first action to take. They've discussed the possibility of taking up some kind of road charge. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if any of these limits, if all of this, will affect structure in the capital area. Then I'd like to scram here at the end of the construction and support of public transportation in the country. [[The president calls.]] How's the top? A minister of that matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking the initiative to address this matter as discussed today. In terms of the government's use of a city line to be started and when can it be expected that first phases will be expected to begin essential planning for urban development right now for the year, i.e. In 2019, and 2020, as agreed by the SSH group, the Country Association in the capital area, and the State on the construction of transport timbers in the capital area. The projection of the first phase is subsequently expected to begin fully in 2021. This is how the transport program estimates 300 million. K. During 2019 and 500 million years. K. in 2020 to agree with the agreement. The government has, in effect, made preparations for the proposed ideas on the city line, high-priority transport to become a reality, both through the spoken - out audience as well as into the transport operating group in the capital area. The government is eager to continue that cooperation. The following steps include: in negotiating with SSH for further implementation of rural areas, on the development of the State, both technical and, above all, financial resources. The progress of the case depends on how fast people get through that work, which is planned in the weeks ahead. Traffic forecasts, like ooze. A senator came to see, that if only organized measures are going to hit the capital area, there will still be more than 40% rise to 2033 and an increase in speed of 25% above the current delay. But if the public transportation project is to be done concomitantly, the increase will be 23%. There is a confirmation - and everyone has agreed on it - that these projects need to be carried out simultaneously, the infrastructure and the public transport. The international commitments of Iceland to climate are not achieved unless automobile traffic declines and public transportation, bicycling, or hiking are enjoyed by more people. Quality transport must be built, which is a practical alternative to the private car. The objective of the city line is to offer competitive options for people's movements in the capital area, thus promoting less road growth, provide additional contributions for the founding cycle path and walking, and improve transport within the capital area in general. In view of the high structure of buildings in the capital area as well as areas of growth, it is vital to speed up the urban structure. Is it proper to refer there to the proposal of a recent staff of the state, community, and labour market members on the premises that highlight these factors? Based on the support and response of increasing transport demand, including to build up, but also from what I come into the end only. In addition, changing travel habits is becoming more and more important based on environmental views. We need to define the new income markets of state and rural society. Examples of such revenues are traffic subsidies in the form of some kind of roads, carbon bills, and even subsidies to the rural community. New income stocks are needed to improve transport in the capital area, but this would only be done in cooperation and support of the rural communities in the capital area. The decision to make up the collection of roads, so-called city fees that affect people's behavior, reduce traffic and encourage public transport cannot be taken away from the government alone. The decision will be made only in cooperation and with the support of rural society in the capital area. The purpose of such currency is to achieve climate targets, that transport in this region will be more efficient and safer. It is a government's will for discussions about such things to begin quickly. Regarding public transport in the country, especially in the areas of growth, the aim is to strengthen public transport and ensure that funds will be most useful. The main policy of public transportation in the whole country is being carried out, for transport in both the air, land, and the sea. The aim is to guide the three transport methods, i.e. Transports, airplanes, and public cars are linked in an acceptable way, thus ensuring the more efficient and comprehensive network of public transport across the country. There are ways to improve the information systems of all public transport, as well as the implementation of existing systems, i.e. Station stations and especially transportation centres. In other words, a simple system is needed. In many countries, models are at the task. Such measures and policy will lay the groundwork for a strong and holistic public transportation system throughout the country that will ensure good access and balance the facilities of the population wherever they live, wherever possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for starting this important discussion. The people of all the nations are involved in transport, but public transportation affects the inhabitants of the whole world, now as unborn. That's why I welcome the discussion because if we don't do anything, as it seems to be the policy of the current government, the number of private cars in traffic here at the southwest corner will increase by 40% over the next decade. Government Treaty mentions the building of public transport, saying that public transportation throughout the country and that the city must continue to be supported. Those are beautiful words, but the facts speak for themselves. All rural areas have established their agreement with the State on public transport and it is clear that the government is not going to change it, because there is no such initiative in the Committee to make more part of the environment and transport committees with the Supreme Transport Program. A secretary of transportation to the next five or 15 years. In the fall of the year, a country's declaration of will was signed in the capital area and the state that people would meet together for the enormous structure of the city line, both necessary to ensure traffic flows and safety, as well as to reduce national carbon emissions. We must do more than just put down words about ideas and plans, Mr. President. There's money to be assured. That's where I'm afraid, and that's as good as the government intends to put the necessary funds in the city line. 800 million won't do it, and that's what the Minister knows. 2.25 billion is the contribution that the Kingdom needs to make each year. But there is nothing about it in financial programmes, not in financial terms, and not in changing transport plans. That's why I have to ask, chief. Minister: Will the State not fulfill the agreement made with the rural areas of the capital? [[The president calls.]] Where's the money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Mr. Ottar's son Proppér, for filming this important matter and setting it up, and I thank the secretary of transportation and rural government, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, for being here to answer. Pregnancy is in my mind one of the biggest insides of our Icelanders. In order for all of Iceland to thrive and thrive, transportation is needed. It's actually the best investment we can make in, i.e. Making good roads all over the country. The question - perfunctory spins almost all around the city line, which is in itself well, and that traffic will increase by more than 40% to 2033, and that the speed of traffic will be 25% higher than today if nothing has to be done. Throughout the discussion of public transportation, we demand to get additional services for the citizens against the increase in financial contributions. It has been disappointing to see how little progress has been made in the efforts of public transport in the capital area in connection with contracts between the state and the city. A billion a year was provided in public transportation instead of investing in building projects in the capital area. The project is now in the sixth year. As a result, at its beginning the total number of travel in the capital area in the bus area was 4%. Today, 6 billion and six years later, the ratio is still 4%. We must have the courage to ask ourselves critical questions in these matters. Why are there no results? Could it be that the results of investing tens of billions of dollars in a so - called city line are comparable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u21	A respectable president. We'd like to discuss public transportation and thank you for this discussion, which is urgent and always enjoyable to discuss transportation. I want us to look at public transportation in broad context and take all the transportation together because everyone affects one another. Transport is connected to each other. We need to talk about them as a group. Public transportation is not only a urban bus but also a bus ride between rural areas, and it is important that the two of these are connected to one another, and those who come along the bus to the urban area can continue to make good use of the same vehicles in the urban area. This also applies to those who use the international flight, which I believe is the largest public transportation of Iceland. Most people in Iceland who use public transportation are on a plane. Although the number of passengers may not be highest, there are no more heads than in flight. Environmental transport guarantees access to important services to people who live outside the country. And besides, we can't forget the squares. All these things need to be talked, public transportation to urban areas and rural areas, and the flights and the trips. As mentioned above, traffic forecasts show that traffic is only increasing, and that is why it is right when we are building and thinking about the organization now to remove areas needed for this increased traffic, whether it is public transportation, bicycle, or walking. We should not forget the change in our cycle of walking, walking, and doing so well. But this is the same target group we're fighting to get into the public transportation. By promoting the opportunities for more people to cycle and go to work, they may reduce the number of people we are trying to get into public transportation. Yet, we still have plenty of men to get in there. But I just wanted to have mentioned this: It is important to design and organization in public transportation to take into account that their arrangements may change over time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u22	A respectable president. The city's capital area in the future requires a future transport system. It also has self - driving cars inside it. The strategy planned by the city line strengthens the system either way, whether it becomes a self-sustaining car or a self - driving bus instead, or whatever it will be. The future will have to start now based on the data and the information we have in these matters. But the situation is that we have a transport program that is before the council, and we have a financial plan. These plans do not finance the action required, they have just begun a preparatory phase, so I just hold my breath. I look forward to seeing a revised financial program by the end of March, the beginning of April. It will reveal the point of the city line. I can't wait to hear the top. A secretary of transportation brings in small ways into the discussion, such a small future view of the financial agenda being developed. I'd also like to thank a messenger for bringing up the name of the thing and the argument that has happened there. There were regional elections in which the city line was adopted, the κpolisist, the campaign, which was very well over the way it worked. I want to call it an incredibly irresponsible political bitch. Simply stated, there is no stage in which we can see anything other than the system set up by the city line, whatever its name is. So I further encourage political responsibility, continued work on the city line, that it will be financed in a financial program. It's not in the transport program yet, but it's probably a need to be revised. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u23	President. I appreciate the aesthetist. It is apparent that the contribution of the large capital area to the total transport budget is much less than the proportion of government funds from vehicles in this same major capital area. It is one of these matters that has an understanding of the social justice of distributing money in such a way, and the next few projects would be done in the more scattered regions. However, the population of the big capital is now under way under way with an upcoming transport strategy. The review of more than part of the Environment and Transport Committee on this programme shows that the budget for transport is not expected to be reduced because of the payment of the projects proposed by the Committee to be funded by road sources, i.e. to the three main stems from the capital area. However, there will be a new space to speed up specific projects according to the transport policy objective and to increase funding for maintenance and implementation on road and road maintenance. This bed, then, is what is in the budget of the state's budget for the construction of these three main roads because the roads are coming in and the citizens of the capital area will bear the heat and the weight of it. It is not a trust fund for these projects. It is a substitute, and the financial contribution of a government fund will be distributed to nothing but the city line. Mr. President. This does not result in social reconciliation. Then you wonder, in the context of what we're talking about right now, what could make such peace. What about the state's clear and binding agreement with the general will of the provinces in the capital area, an agreement that ensures full urban funding? Don't stick to the word that we're going to aim for it, not that later it will be negotiated for exporting, not behind the curtain mat that the capitals also pay the bill, in addition to the fuel tax, which goes mostly beyond that, and then farts. Why can't such binding agreements be concluded as soon as the government's transport program? If something is unscrupulous, something is still missing so that such an agreement can be resolved, transport planning cannot be resolved immediately. [[The president calls.]] This will not be understood apart, any more than the declared Kingdom target on climate matters, as is the goal of housing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. The city line is the key to the solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this discussion. City line, isn't it just a street? Isn't it just a private road for bus? I think a city line is some cool word to justify a lot of things. Yeah, a city line would be great. It's such a private bus road, and it's been tried in many places, e.g. in Norway and there was e.g. Also allowed for two or more in a car to use this road. But is this an excuse for controlling the private car's movement? Eaglenes Road, e.g. of Reykjavík and Kópavogs. This argument has lasted since the first stage of 2004. I'm asking, is this to force the city line in? I can't imagine that the threshold at those corners of 2004 is just because it's supposed to be a miscreant road model or a light - directed design. There's a requirement for this. Emergency transporters, firefighters. This is so serious. This road has been required, but it is not coming. Are we forceing something 4% use at the expense of public safety? As the road is e.g. Now built, it is a very dangerous turn. I want us to revise all of this, and I'm sure we'll watch all of this as a whole. We can't watch the city line and at the same time do nothing because of the dam that's here every morning and evening for the private car.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u25	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's important. The transport and transport authorities have not yet been submitted, but they are short-lived. That's a lot of pages. There were a number of visitors before the committee. It was clear that there was a very public interest in public transportation, whether within the capital or outside. And all of this is discussed in the committee's opinion to the extent possible. The city line, which refers to the total amount of some 110 billion years, is set up on both part of the city and the State, 50:50, in preparation. Furthermore, the next two steps will be discussed, i.e. what city and what state will put in the next phase. So, of course, it's not a fact that doesn't make any sense. It is also in harmony with the declaration of will that has been made between the state and the city's city line. The reason that this is not a table for the reached city line is in progress and you can't build it in until it becomes clear where you will be assigned. Pays are relevant in the institutions 'cause when they enter Reykjavík, they are performing some projects that will benefit the city line. It is clear, however, that internal fees are needed in the capital area in order for the city line to actually get the job done. It has been very helpful to look to Oslo, e.g. as this has been over 151⁄220 years. Moreover, it is quite clear that public transportation has been saved both in 2019 and has already begun to develop a general policy on public transportation throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u26	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u27	A respectable president. Here we will discuss public transportation and city lines, a very important project. As we have seen, there is extensive agreement between the state and the local community in the capital area to shape plans for the future development of transport. Certain stages have been reached in the cooperation and the Declaration of Will, but more work is ahead of us. It has also been observed to change travel habits, so more people use public transportation, wheels, or walking, but the number of automobiles is still going up by 23◯24%. However, if you are not able to change travel habits, driving will increase by at least 40% at the same time. It is very important for all who travel across the capital area to develop a transport system that ensures easy and secure traffic with the least environmental impact, regardless of the way humans choose. This needs to identify and promote main transport pathways. All of these routes need to be well connected with areas within the capital area and by starting out for the capital. Public transport in the country must form a unit on land, in the air, and in the sea. This process is being set up and working in various places, both across the country and in the cooperation of rural society. The city line provides a basis for real options for public transport within the capital area as a high - quality system separated from another traffic. In the process of changing much of the transport plan, budgets are planned for preparation between 2019 and 2020. [[The president calls.]] The present development is to develop common goals and funding so that priorities can be set and priorities will be ready for the next review of the transport programme, which will hopefully be within a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u28	The president again reminds the senators to give a speech lesson. The rule he follows is that in 10 seconds it will be so immediate but still low and light-handed, but after 15 seconds it will be pretty loud, which is very uncomfortable for those sitting at home. It's the responsibility of the senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u29	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion, for powerful transport is an enormous factor in the quality of life and life of the people of the country, including the smokers. These infrastructures form the vitality of our community. In recent years an investment in road transport has been severely neglected while traffic has increased dramatically. At the same time, we must look to ways that we can reduce carbon dioxide emissions and do enough to make it important. This is our generation's biggest project here, and we need to take it very seriously. Thus, when we consider investments in transport and transport development, we need to make decisions that contribute to changing travel practices. It does not mean much to tell people to use public transportation if there are few options, subsidies, and bad ones. Public transportation is transport, such as roads and the misdirection of roads, and it is to be financed as such. The infrastructure this should be part of the regular investments of the state funds and not in the government budget or the budget, we see the funds needed to build public transport. If we look to the capital in particular, the joint results of a community in the capital area and the road structure in the capital area show that, without the changes in traffic, the situation will be much worse during the 15 - year period of transport programmes as referred to here. Without action traffic levels will increase 40% and 24%, respectively. It's been listed here a few times, but it's good to reiterate. The only way to reduce the period of stress in the capital area and reduce pollution is to find real means of traveling to powerful public transportation. It will simply increase the use of public transportation like a city line if built up. It is assumed that the state will provide 300 million. K. contribution to preparation and implementation due to city line in 2019 and 500 billion. K. In 2020, against a comparable tournament from rural areas in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, the common cost of the country and its members is due to the first stage of building a city line of 42 billion dollars. and it is evenly divided between countries and rurals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Enforcement secretary: Where do we see the government's financial commitment to the city line? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If I didn't care so much for the Icelandic language, I would even go so far as to point to a famous movie, with the permission of a president: [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u30	That was fun. However, there was another offense that was committed here, which is that we need to translate. If you ask the president to speak in English and the Senate is Icelandic, you have to translate it, but the senator knows it. Again, the president reminds the speakers to give a talk period, and perhaps it would not be too late to schedule the talks before they arrive in a public assembly chair to help with the Senate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u31	Mr. President. There are different types of public transportation, both by plane, by country, and by transporters. It has to be said that in all these areas, the government has been drawing its feet. In fact, it is now time for people to remove the airport in Reykjavík, the lifeblood of their public transportation in the country, in the next few years, and they are not aware of what is to be replaced. We have inadequate ferry connections, both in Brefjords and between the land and the island, which in themselves do not completely cover the end, despite new electrical ships and a lot of sand east south shores. But then there are the factors that concern this area, which are naturally important because this is the country's population. I haven't met the man who can tell me what a city line is yet. On slippery commercial signs, it looks like a subway or something, but it's far away. Yet, the mayor has been elected on such posters, but the posters do not transport people. What needs to be done is to promote public transportation in the capital area, and this can be done, e.g. with more frequent travel rate. This has been done in Denmark in a city of a size similar to that of Reykjavík, U.S.A., where bus transport is absolutely exemplary. People are coming to the bus because it comes not just for half an hour, but much more often. In all this discussion, I have to suggest one idea that I have held up for a few years, and few people will agree to solve severe traffic problems in the capital area, whether you are on a private car or on a bus or something else. It's making a great highway to one-way road east from Núnsbre and in the same way Seatrack up from the same place as the Snorra Way, a one-way drive to the west. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There could be special lanes for bus and ambulances and everyone would make it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] After that, the wedding could be extended not only to the traffic lights that are on the way, so that the traffic would be smoother than it will be in any other place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u32	The president again reminds the senators to give a speech lesson. That bell was available at any given moment. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u33	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the opportunity to talk about city lines and public transportation. I'm going to talk only about public transportation in the capital area, for despite the importance of the rest, the population of the capital area is 70 and80% of the population. There we are talking about what is called in the English language, some form of mass transport. That's what counts when it comes to climate. In every part of the Western world and elsewhere, urban communities are promoting public transport. They don't find that city community that doesn't work in that direction. I'd like to encourage you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson and other members of the council in this room to study the concept of a city line, since the rural areas in the capital have been working with it for many years and it is totally defined as what to do. In all parts of the Western world, too, it is not only the local communities that stand under public transportation but also states and states. It is perfectly normal for the State to share in the cost of building a city line. And because the billion projects and experiments have been discussed, there is reason to remind us that the billion never became a billion. It's 890 million. K. In 2017. Since there are about 11% of the total income of the bus, rural areas in the capital area and the taxpayers there represent the basic cost of public transportation in the capital area. And, of course, it is only natural for the Kingdom to enter it in in a specific way. Civil line is about improved urban planning. It's about more traffic security. It's about the environment. It is a matter of time savings and simply improved quality of life in this area. Then we'll find out how we're going to finance this. There are ideas about roadtoll now. I support the whole idea, provided, of course, that roads in the capital area will be ensured by the actual construction of transport workers in the capital area, both in the public transport of the city line and, of course, in conventional public transport systems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - This is way too short, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u34	However, the president would like to point out that the senator was able to make all that he had, and he passed only six seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u35	Mr. President. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: In the future, public transport across the country needs to be built and the city will be briefed in cooperation with rural society in the capital area. On June 7, last year, I had a conversation with the highest. Financial and economic ministers during an unsubstantiated question period here at the General Assembly where I asked him about these government promises for support in the city line. In his reply, the Supreme One said. Minister, with permission of presidents: ▪ What can you say but that this conversation is an enormous amount of time away? On Tuesday last week, January 22, Awake! prime minister, rather, on the arrival of the State in preparation for a city line. Please refer to urban funding in a transport programme and to the national and rural declarations in the capital area of the current budget, although the final payment of government and rural funding has not been completed. So it seems that from the moment I had this conversation with the highest. The financial and economic minister has indeed developed, and now the government's will is to bring about a clearer payment of the city's subsidies. This, of course, is good news. In fact, public transport is important to the population, but it is not to be underestimated by their importance in climate matters. The climate is one of the most important projects facing politicians, and it is important that we always have them foreordained by all decision making. According to a report by HI of 2017, urban development will lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of some 29,000 tons of carbon dioxide. This is a worthwhile goal, and it further emphasizes the importance of implementing projects at the city line and that the State is about to finance the project in a decisive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u36	A respectable president. The city line is becoming one of the issues in which people can discern whether they know a new world in shape or if they are so impressed by the past and the rule of things then true that they do not see a new time on the horizon. Unlike the global warming that took many years or decades to face, others are still struggling to acknowledge. It has to be said, as with the fact that the government's problems in the affairs of the city line have been quite surprising. The government has former city and deputy agents, e.g. Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and Guðlaugur Þórðarson, who should know the issues facing the transport of the capital area. They should know that there will be no more traffic jams at higher speeds. We also know that Reykjavíkurburg would prefer to lower the speed and decrease the lanes of the main institutions from the west and would not want the inhabitants of the Hostage to see the street that splits their neighborhood into a broader and greater highway. No more than parks want bigger highways through their town. The way to build ourselves out of the problem with more highways is over. Despite this, the city line is so much a tab in the company of some ministers that they cannot dare say the word out loud. In fact, when the government's strategy for climate was first submitted, there was not a single word on the city line that would be crucial for the success of the government, not a single word. For the present government, the word "city " appears to be like the Macbeth in the theater, the word that is not to be mentioned. According to a report by Mannie, we know that the most expensive way to solve the transport problem is to build up a car city. The most expensive route is the mixed route of cars and city line, which is just the way the rural communities here, old and new more parts - and it's the fact that those who were against the city line are nowhere in the greater part - but all these old and newer pieces have wanted to go this mixed route, unfortunately, it is still a great thorn in the eyes of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u37	A respectable president. Yeah, the city line, 4% uses it, it's cool, but it solves e.g. Not the problem of people living in the Setberg in Hafnarfjörður, which is shut up in the rush hour and morning, and the bus is also locked up, he also has to get in and out to get into the city line or the bus line, on his own street. Nearly 40 years ago, when I moved to Hafnarfjordur, there was a higher road. He's gone. Then there was a man ten minutes, 15 minutes from Hafnarfjörður to town, no matter what time it was. Today you can be grateful if it takes 45 minutes, sometimes an hour, even two hours more. Then you're gonna get back. What we need to look at is not only a so-called city line but also a way to solve this car's problem, to get from A to B. We need to get to the top of the road. We're gonna have to have a Daffy Road. We're even gonna have to set a road over the Sniven Fjord. We need to find some solutions. If we don't find any solutions, there will be a 40% increase in the traffic rate in the private car. So, what does that mean? Do people have to get out of the Hafnarfjörður for three or four hours in the future? I don't think anyone's gonna accept that. And think of all this pollution when thousands of cars are trapped for an hour on their way, just this short way from Hafnarfnarfjörður to Reykjavík. There is no small pollution, and somehow it has to be solved. That's why I say we have to solve both these problems, not just that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u38	President. I'd like to start by saying that I feel that the verbal debate should be the final words in this discussion. That concludes my complaint, not being reprobate. There's been a lot of great discussions here, and thank you very much. A minister for clear and clear answers and good will, as expressed in his earlier case. There's a couple of 'em. Congress officials have taken some action and have tried to create something to be called the government's troublemaker on this matter. I'm going to allow it, Mr. President, to point out that he's no more than that, so we're starting a civil line. That is a very big step, though we may want some to see that they get stuck on the ground faster in their projects. That's what we're at even. to discuss here. We've been discussing plans here. I'm not much of a projector in general, but I look forward to two plans, one of the financial programs presented here and the other, a transport program. It is my hope that public transportation will be the first priority when we submit a revised transport plan whenever it becomes. Since then, one aspect of the idea of a city line that we may have been talking about here, normally, I planned this discussion, so it was about public transportation. You are right in the discussion that the city line is much more than that. The city line is also a organizational matter. That is why she rhymes so well with the ideas of a housing group that were recently introduced. It was there, for example. Talk about building the Kelding Environment, which is just part of city lines ideas. I wondered if we could speed up the project. This work together in housing and transportation, so that it could be done as soon as possible and sooner than possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u39	Madam President. Thanks for a great discussion today, too. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who has not been fond of the mixed route of the candidate, or the general candidate, specifically said that it was important to follow the reconstituted route. I agree with that, because we are setting up by means of the reconstituted route that several members of Parliament have entered, i.e. both in the founding process and in the public transport. Besides, I have to mention one thing and I'm not gonna spend a lot of powder on it. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee, has discussed transport issues and it is increasingly unpleasant to repeatedly correct the facts presented here from this hearing chair. It's annoying. I'm not gonna spend any longer on it. The situation is this: The communication between state and rural society in the capital area has never been better in achieving an agreement on the structure of public transport on the one hand and on the other. The same vision is of what it means if we do nothing and what it means to do together. The work, however, has taken some time. Of course, she wasn't ready for last spring before the election. It all took autumn to receive this common vision after recent district elections. This has been successful, so the work is now accompanied by a financial plan for the next five years. For the next two years, we've secured the collective funds of the state and the local community to set off on public transportation. We have also provided the normal priorities for the major roads, and we are at the same time looking at public transportation around the country, and we have made sure that they are in good direction in 2019, as well. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in. In other words, we are walking exactly the steps we promised to take, even faster and even longer, than we anticipated because this agreement was not made, the common vision that has come now. Therefore, the contribution to the urban line, to the public transport in the financial programme and in the agreement with rural society, rather than in the coming days. [[The president calls.]] It's ridiculous, wishful thinking, nonsense, and nonsense, so I say it here, expecting things to be taken care of before men have done their job properly. Beautifulness is important in the structure. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u40	Madam President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, a bill for a legal review of financial enterprise law, No. 161 of 2002, on deck. 857. The committee was contacted by a representative of the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs, Iceland's Secret Bank, the Economic Affairs and KPMG. The bill suggests changes in financial law on issues relating to financial management and revision. These changes are attributed to the CRD IV directive, taken up in Icelandic rights in recent years. In particular, they focus on the limitations of other management and executives' jobs and the information and reporting requirements of financial auditors. Following the review of the UNECE and having agreed with the Ministry, the majority contributes to the adjustment of the wording of Article 2 of paragraph 4. The bill, of the obligation of accountants to inform the UN about certain aspects of financial activities. These changes are primarily related to the conceptual use as reflected in changes provided by the Committee on the same Senate document. In addition to the above, the larger portion is suggested to add an article of 2 mg. 90. gt. The law, which leads to the appointment of accountants. In accordance with the requirements, the terms of the accountant or the review firm shall be five years and should include the requirement: have been criticized for inflexibility, especially when it is intended to coordinate the working period of an accountant's job between mother, daughter and sister mates, cr. 3 mg 90. gt. According to a bill to a new overall law on revisions and reviews under consideration by the Committee, 2 mg per capitations will be discussed. 90. gt. the legislation on financial enterprises from values and new rules on the working time of an accountant, which is based on the regulations of the EU Regulation No. 537/2014 of public interest accountants taking over. According to these regulations, the appointment of an accountant for financial companies can be determined from one year up to 10 years. So the majority of them have an understanding of the criticism as set out in Article 2. 90. gt. law on financial companies has accepted and proposed a change in wording of the law, with the aim of increasing flexibility in working time in order of an accountant or an accountant's enterprise. Then the majority suggest an expression change on page 6. The bill, technically speaking. Taking into account the changes presented in the Senate document that follow the opinion of the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted. Under the opinion of the above - mentioned publications, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The members of the assembly, Chemur the son of Víglundsson, Braudur the son of Níelsson, the daughter of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Harðardóttir G. Hardydur, the daughter of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, the Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u41	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize electronic laws and other electronic services. If the bill is legalized, the principle that providers, most of the hosts, are not responsible for data they no longer require that they remove or prevent data after receiving a report of an alleged violation of the author's law. After the change, the host's knowledge of illegal activity or information must be directly identified so that they can be responsible for the content of data they host. In between 12 and 13. The laws above show the responsibility principle for the host's limitations due to the data he is hosting for others. 14th degree. The law then shows important exceptions from principle 2 mg. 14th par. it now shows that a provider hosting data is not responsible for them, provided he removes them or prevents them from getting a report that data includes an alleged violation against author law. If the service holder is to remove them or to prevent them from being punished and incurred. This law thus means that there is no need for confirmation of any violation of author law. Rather, it is sufficient to make an announcement. The bill I recommend here was written by a committee appointed by the prime minister in March. According to the commission of the Committee, it shall continue to work on and further evaluate the issues established by the head of the Ministry of Education and Culture, following the approval of the Council of Congress that Iceland created a gross legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. The limitations of the freedom of expression as 2nd. 14th par. law on electronic business must be viewed as unnecessary and too burdensome. It is important to insist that author-based interests still remain sufficiently secure by the author's law on law against practices that include unsaturable use or distribution of the author's fixed materials. It is also apparent that the change proposed in the bill will lead to a clear violation of the author laws, such as the handling of the file exchange sites, or access to them, the commitment limit is not applicable. Then, the Supreme Court in recent courts agrees with the confirmation of a ban on such pages based on author - law rules. So the author's concern about the change proposed in the bill is unnecessary, although they are completely understandable, as authors are important in protecting their imaginations. After the change, the directive will be in full agreement with Europe's rights, as well as with legislation in our neighboring countries, which ensures the interests of authors in such a way. Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental values in a free and democratic society and is protected by 73rd. The constitution. All those concerned about democratic society should be particularly careful not to place needless restrictions on that freedom, as it is hard to see that democracy can thrive without freedom of expression. All restrictions on this, therefore, must be on the basis of rich public interests and on the basis of a steady reassessment. It was the assessment of the Commission, and I agree with the evaluation, by the transfer of this bill - according to the assessment of the underlying interests of the authors and the community of the potential misuse of the law, which must always be counted by the arrangement in its present appearance - that it should be suggested at the World Council that it be changed in the way that the bill involves. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. and to treat the condition. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a court order on health policy to the year 2030, but the decision to present health policy is actually in the government covenant. In addition, there is the basis for health care and health - care systems to determine which governments intend to maintain in health care and how to develop. It is that when we talk about life expectancy and health in general, all aspects of society are important and that are the most important factors in the life - style of the people of the country and of the social and economic aspects of the nation. In this regard, health - care services play less role than many would expect. Nevertheless, good health care is almost essential to our living, especially in the scattered areas of the land. The recommendations for health care include the quality of the health system and the quality of health care services in a narrow sense and the basic resources needed to build a well - established health system where the state that is acceptable to the ministry can make the necessary priorities and the importance of tasks, based on the needs of users, and guaranteed that its availability is equal to its residence and economy. Whenever such policies are put together, it is important to look to what happens in the countries around us. The majority of countries, for example, in Europe, have already assembled and produced health policies to identify the basis for what health care is available in each country. At the same time, countries vary in how this foundation is established and how it is defined. In some areas, public health is being done much more than here, as well as public health talk, but we have a common health policy that enables us to pursue a course that is primarily involved in the ministry as such. I think it's important that we go over it. It is not part of the ministry, i.e. We do not discuss mental health issues, aging services, treatment of addiction, rehabilitation, nursing homes, etc. Rather, it provides the basis for us to work on the expansion of all their infrastructure in a systematic way, regardless of the management method and in advance of a definite or clear idea of priorities. In a simple and clear way, this is the basis for the building we are building. This is an attempt to start on the foundation of the house, not on the roof. How important it is when we make decisions regarding health matters that we do not follow from day to day with the headlines of the day and are putting out fires, but we have some complete thoughts. In the Senate arrangement, there is a future vision for the two - joint health services. First, there will be global health and health care, focusing on health benefits and prevention, especially on health care. Second, the quality, safety, and availability of the health - care providers will be measured. These are the main objectives of all the service, of being on a worldwide scale, of achieving what is best in the world, and of having a measure of success. Health policy is divided into sections that are not necessarily presented in an important series but, in some sense, in a normal order. First of all, we deal with leadership for success, i.e. the way the health system is controlled. How important it is that we be fully aware of who is responsible for each part of the ministry! When you work at a medical facility or at the Department of Health, you become aware that there are some areas that are very important to explain. There must be good cooperation between health and social services, clear boundaries between rural activities and the State does, etc. In the course as presented in a proposal for Congress resolution, it is assumed that by the year 2030, we will have reached certain targets under the section indicated in the proposal. The second section discusses proper service in the right place. Perhaps it simply refers to the subject for almost every day in the media, i.e. when people do not receive service in the right place, do not receive proper services, even if they are to receive services at a nursing home, and those who should go to a health - care center need help. The compatibility of serving in the right place and the right time is also a matter of identifying the first phase of service, the work of the health care professional, the second degree of service, i.e. Specialized services outside the university hospital, and third degree service, university hospital, and the Akureyri Hospital. This refers to individual roles, making sure that patients receive service at the proper stage of their ministry. Ten different goals are listed. Senators can see in the motion. Third, there's a chapter called the people in foreground. It discusses the needs of health care. There are many things behind us, and these days may be the main concern of design in the capital area, with regard to nurses and hospital staff and land care, and especially health care. How do we make sure that we have enough design in our health system, and how do we make sure that we have in one place and in a visible way exactly who the designer is today? It is not that it is simple to call out information about who is now, who is working in our system, and how much. There we are also talking about cooperation between institutions and teamwork, a cross-cutting approach, a collective approach, the better - growing approach to health care, that health workers are not singled out but are working much more in the pools where all knowledge is used to ensure the best service for our people. Fourth, it's the section called Active Users. Then we are talking about making sure that the people of the country have access to information and have knowledge to make informed decisions about the choice of health care, i.e. They see an electronic user puzzle, they use and use a health care or some port, they can see their positions in the credit system, how much the person has paid, and how much he will still have to pay before he comes up to the roof, whether it is health care or medicine or anything else, and that regular services will be done to ensure a certain level of services in the service, and the public will know what he can expect about the development of it. A respectable president. I have to go over a story pretty fast. Fifth, we will discuss an effective Service Meeting, which is in some respects the most relevant issues in today's health - care system today, i.e. how the State buys health care and how it is paid. This is one of the most significant assessments of the National Reexamination of Health Services contracts by Iceland's Medical Insurance Research, which shows that this need to be done much clearer, is needed on the basis of a minister's policies which health care services should be paid, in what amount, what the requirements for quality, effectiveness, etc. and that's what you have to agree with the patient's credit ratings and that kind of thing. There we are talking about need analysis and that there is, in fact, a comparable system regardless of who provides the service, which applies both to those who perform the service on the basis of special agreements with Iceland's Medical Insurance today and to those who provide health care and who are part of the public system. sixth, that is "Vatta in first place. " To ensure quality and safety, we need to provide a regular guide on health outcomes, individual factors, and have comparative data that we can compare with the countries around us, which we can compare within the country and compare between specific periods. We are to make clear the requirements in agreement with the services providers on quality and the effectiveness to be achieved. In fact, we already signed, I signed with a surgeon during the days, plan to install a clear quality system in all the health services in Iceland. The induction process is now beginning where everyone is to be, from Land Hospital to Medical Monologue, to demonstrate specific quality and assessment factors in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of their functions. seventh, we will discuss the future. That chapter is entitled "Keep Your Minds on the Future. " Then we're talking about how we can guarantee that Icelandic health care will not be reduced by any means, that we educate our workers, do it well in advance with our basic education, but we also do it by history and recycling so that our people will be able to compare with what is best in the world. We also expect it to be a field for health care professionals to do research and science and that databases and biomarkers will become open and accessible to scientists who have permission for scientific research. We have agreements with other countries that further education by doctors and advanced healthcare professionals meet the most strict international requirements and we have a strong cooperation with the northern nations for the evaluation of new technologies and new methods. As the years pass, they will no doubt become increasingly challenging. Often, the technology has gone beyond us much longer than we ourselves, sometimes moral matters that we have not finished, and progress has even been made in the field of technology and science. A respectable president. It's amazing that I've studied seven chapters and I've only had a few minutes to complete my case. I'd like to talk about policy implementation. The simplest thing in the world is to set such a course, but it needs to be there, it needs to be the basis for real projects. We assume that there will be a five - year - old programme and that these measures will be carried out together with a financial programme at any given time. They will be updated each year while health - care policies are being held and health - care ministers will submit the health-care programme of the health policy to be discussed each year, not to the help of a health committee, but only to make the Parliament understand what the measures are in accordance with each chapter of the policy, what steps to take in each chapter. This is except for all the things that were only killed at the beginning and that have become part of the individual components of health care and become part of the program, which involves the service to the elderly, emphasis on rehabilitation, services to specific groups of patients, etc. We are in fact ensuring the foundation, which is a long - awaited operation. I want to know at the very end that we also need to be careful how practical it is to ensure equal access regardless of their location. We need to make good use of modern technology and intensive medical care, and then we need to ensure that there will be a regular review of the procedures presented here, i.e. to the director of public health institutions, rural areas, users, business companies and others. A respectable president. I assume that the proposal will be referred to the welfare committee after the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u43	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers before the speech and that she had gone through this massive course in record time. That was a good move. I agree with that with the highest. Minister to the overall vision is of utmost importance, and I like the vision set out in policy. I like it when it's the highest. According to one secretary, in a financial program the policy will be cut into certain measures after years, and this will be a combination of financial contributions. I asked the highest. Secretary of last spring, less than a year ago, on the problem that is faced because of the lack of nurses and medical staff. The answer reveals that a minister intends to plan a course for nurses, health care professionals and other health care professionals within the medical facility and to plan how the human needs will be met. This policy will be part of the health policy of the Ministry. The course of action, of course, involves this matter. This is an emergency. Hundreds of nurses are missing, even in financial value, as are the predictable problems due to the lack of medical staff. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is being done about this now? That's what's at the highest level. A minister believes that he can face the problem and correct it for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's reputation and the question are positive. For nursing, I've collected -- we did it in the Ministry of Health and now the Ministry of Health - virtually all possible ideas that have been involved in unions, reports, assessments, etc.; gathering up any suggestions that might be beneficial in improving nursing care. There was nothing in sorting or evaluating these suggestions, what was good, what was inferior, etc., but all of them were placed in equal equations. I published a memo in a special Minister's Committee on Compatibility Where We Were, Me and Prime Minister and Secretary of finance, which discussed ways to push operations at the institutions, i.e. all these public institutions, to improve care for nursing, without disrupting the discussion of the quality and working hours that are taking place with the Commission of the Contract Committee of the State. The conclusion was that it happened - and it's nice to relate on this day - yesterday I sent a letter to all medical institutions in the country that encouraged the assessment of these measures, which are now eight or nine, that each institution makes an assessment of the potential costs and timeliness of bringing this action to work in an attempt to meet this challenge. I stressed that a very short period of time would be given, so we wait until February 15 or 20; I do not quite remember which date it was, by getting some kind of medical evaluation as to these specific measures. [[The president calls.]] This is what I'm doing for a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u45	Madam President. We who live in the country live in a unique situation that provides us with a special service that the private institutions decide they want to offer us. The final point of chapter 2 discusses the role of the Land Hospital as a university hospital, that it will be strengthened, and that is good, and that there will also be a high - tech service and a Phase 3 service that cannot be performed elsewhere in the country. I'm asking the highest. Ministers, whether the demands for the Land Hospital, or the workaholics, are required not only for hospital services, walking services, instruction and research but also for the purpose of a specific obligation for national special service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u46	A respectable president. We in the Ministry have considered the bioavailability of the public throughout the national field of expert services. History is very variable and almost random in nature as to the available bioavailability. So this factor needs to be wrapped up. That's two things we do. First, by making negotiations with experts, there is some separation between the services being given beyond the capital area and second, by strengthening the status of the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital to be a sponsor in providing special special service in their territory. This is partly accomplished and will be done even more. It is also of great importance that we define all the specialities that everyone should possess throughout the year. Not all differences, just summers. We're getting the hang of it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u47	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I'd like to get a little curious about the discussion in this. I'm aware of the approach and reviews received, 27 I think. I know of an open meeting that I sat, they've probably been more. However, at the same time, criticism has been observed from certain health groups that did not come there, and I am referring, for example, to independent experts. I know the Minister and Ministry worked hard with land hospitals and possibly other sources within the state-wide part of the system. I'm wondering if the arrival of other professionals was, which could have reached the table by a different approach, another vision, another experience, and if it is true that a certain page was in it and why it was there. I would also like to know if the personal interest groups of patients were involved. In the first round, I would be interested in getting a little better insight into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u48	A respectable president. We made sure that, in fact, the discussion was very open. Of course, it is always a matter of time before everyone feels that they should come, that is, of course, just a way of life. But the first meeting that was held with public institutions. A meeting was then held with certain members, trade unions and unions, the common Union, the BSRB, and other such. Then they announced an open - air meeting, and we suggested that they form members of a group of patients. It was a very broad group that arrived at a health - care meeting, with a huge amount of information and comments coming in on a well - worked basis. I'd like to think and hope that in part it explained that there were only 27 narratives - one would previously have claimed that such a large and large matter was that there were more rumors at that point. But I expect that once the council has discussed the matter, the committee will make such comments. The most important thing to me is that when we're talking about the discussion, we're looking at what the comments are, i.e. how the tips are used turn, not the timing of the event. After all, such a health policy cannot be some sort of average or lowest common name or anything like that, but it needs to be a complete thought there. I have to say, based on the comments that I have received, I am very pleased with the tone of health policy that is presented to the council, even though comments have been made primarily in regard to the timing of events. I trust each other. A health committee to discuss this in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u49	Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, and he is looking forward greatly to the work of a welfare committee, where we'll be dealing with and having guests. I can see why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson doesn't smile, but we'll solve it. There's something else I'd like to mention, and it's about locality. When you start doing this kind of policy work, if you're going to get it done, you have to have some data collections. I am deeply concerned about the lack of data, and later I may be able to access it further. But I'd also like to wonder if the highest. A minister has some of the evidence collected for this work. It is not in the document, and there are specific details, needs, and so on. I'd like to get some information from the highest level. Ministers, before you go any further, where you take the position, and where that information comes from. It is not a matter of remuneration that the main health care department is the Landsaholic. Is that what was new to you? Is it the numbers we use? Just so you know where they come from. That's my first question. I'm also going to use this opportunity to ask the highest. Minister, since he is standing here and he named the medical program that follows: "Where will the work force be? [[The president calls.]] Will it be put in consultations? [[The president calls.]] Will it be submitted as a council proposal for the next fall? [[The president calls.]] Is that what happened?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u50	A respectable president. With the principled position we have in the hands of a number of reports, from McKinsey, from Boston Consulting, from Government Accounting, and more sources. Actually, things happen to the same well, i.e. Similar and similar comments are made. On the other hand, it is absolutely accurate, and an important indication is made from the dog. A senator, that we need to do much better in Iceland in general, and then I'm not just talking about the health system but about all the welfare services, that we know exactly what we have in our hands and what data we're aiming at when we're leaving and what standards we're going to use when we're going to consider whether we're successful or not. And, unfortunately, it is not just health care that needs to be done better there. Therefore, it is part of the health policy here to have a detailed work involving effective service purchases, which, of course, are based on our hand data. [[The president calls.]] Quality work is also based on data. So wherever you look at this work, you need to increase and significantly improve data collection and data processing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u51	President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. A minister who is happy with this health policy because it's just amazing. I look forward to getting her into the welfare committee, having guests and reviews about the matter, and moving on. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In the report, we refer to a new route on health systems and it shows up, with permission of the president: ▪ The secretation has included uniting services, setting up so - called knowledge centres, and final units that do not meet quality, security, and effectiveness requirements. After all, the knowledge that manned and other wealth on which the health system is built is limited makes it better to get skills, skills, and knowledge together rather than overexploited. I just want to pray to the highest. A minister to explain what this means and whether this is a policy that health - care minister has already taken care of. And if any steps have been taken in this direction. And what steps they've actually been, because I read myself only about the Šcentres of excellence to the point. It's an interesting thought, and I'd like to hear a little bit more about the way a minister thinks it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's luck. What I'm most proud of is that it's still January, but it's in the council in March. But it's just a personal thing. Because of what? A senator asks about such knowledge centers and how to push evolution forward by bringing up knowledge in one place, I might want to mention in it the relationship between a developing center of health care. It actually has to do with what is best for the health care sector, both in the capital area and throughout the country, to direct knowledge and development from the capital area to land and back, so that we have some kind of field where we can be developing knowledge and looking to the future regardless of our home. This is one example that has been developed, not a final example in these materials. Because of what? A senator asks what is really under there, so that's to say that we're all talking about what I mentioned earlier, i.e. that we know who the specifics are, and we know what the results are, and we know the standards in the whole system, because, as our system is now, even though it's good on a global scale, it's good at all the scales, but it's still that we're stuck with excessive waiting in some places for services and in other places, it's really being overworked. As long as we don't have that perspective, we're getting into these. I believe that health care will help us to see all of this more clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u53	President. I would like to follow through by asking if part of this is moving people to public service or further contact, since it is natural for all this free organization. Is this some kind of partying there, too? I've noticed that this has been a bit of a policy at the top. A minister, trying to improve the public ministry, asks if this is part of it. Also, I would like to ask about one objective of the policy of working hours, that the work hours and the staff load will be in harmony with best knowledge, law, and dress contracts. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what this means; in accordance with best knowledge. Tells you the highest. Ministers do not require special attention, e.g. by reducing shift loads and working hours? I know that there's something important in this paper. [[The president calls.]] Why, then, is it not just one goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u54	A respectable president. Regarding the work load on the staff, this is one of the things we're talking about every day. Today, I met with a representative of the Iceland Medical Association who took me through their latest research on the medical coldness of the profession. And we know the nurse alert load, etc. This is one of the factors to consider, and it is said in this way, it is the Council and the Committee to determine whether to take it deeper in the year. Hv. A senator asks if it is a special interest in the Minister to transfer services to public members. It's not a special interest for the Minister to do that. On the other hand, I have a special interest in strengthening the public system because I see it all around us, where health systems are strong enough to make the anchor there a strong public health system. But I'd like to mention, too, because of it. A senator speaks of the context of parts, of course, that we also stress that there is always a field for health professionals to work with others, to work in the companies, etc., to develop and perform better service, that we are not, and especially in the country, with too scattered services, or in the capital area with medical services where there is few service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We know that a good service often depends on intensive professional cooperation and teamwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u55	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the contribution of this medical conference and look forward to this discussion. Perhaps the approach to the course is especially good for the discussion we take here, for us to consider how a system we want to have, how it develops, and what the situation is. I think this is a great opportunity to open up the discussion and get ideas and get as many people at the table as possible. I'm looking forward to it on a welfare committee. Health policy is primarily about the type of service that needs to be available in our country. How do we put it first, and how should this service be performed? Where should this service be performed? These are all factors that we need to understand, and they also require a set of standards. What service will we be going to buy, and how will we keep track of our privilege of service? It all needs to be played together. Most of the news just lately or just the last year or a year on the health system is about stress at Land Hospital, the situation there, and so on. Then we need to think about our system, where we want to serve, and what other options we have. As for today's pressures in emergency departments, we may just have to make a decision to build real emergency departments in other places, especially in Kraga Hospitals, next to us at Selephoss, in Smokeytown, at Akslinai, in the Western Islands, and elsewhere, in these larger places. At that time, there are not so many people who have to move from these places to the Land Hospital, which adds to the pressures they face, and better services can be done at home and we reduce disease and stress in other parts of the system. At the same time, the big changes that are going to occur must be considered. Our health system is built up a little with regard to population, but the population of people is only saying so little today. For example, in the community where I live in Grindavik, where there are over 3,300 residents, there are more than the total population of people every day in the Blue lagoon, staff, and visitors. And there are active individuals. I'm calling out for the force zones of Microbola, Skaftfell, and all around. It may average about 150 people at the most, both registered and temporary, who are at the Weather Room, with 2500 each day. All the services being built for this 150, however, are the two rescue teams who carry out all the projects, who are medical or firefighters, rescue workers. Of course, there are more active workers in the Káló rescue team, but this happens a little bit over and over again. We need to start thinking about the ministry and also thinking about other ways. We know the system, it was always the local doctor who could do everything. Now it's a little different, and then we need to think, as's been mentioned here, about teamwork and stuff like that. How much can nurses do? What can telepathy do, much of what doctors and nurses used to do? Can we study this together? What relief do we have? Should we further provide special assistance with helicopters and airplanes and other vehicles so that we have a team passing through? There are many things we need to consider. Then I'd like to combine a little bit of the next topic on one thing, that's the reaction. The pressures and services that health care needs to provide, both the sick and the injured, can be so important. It can make a difference how the first reaction is. If the first reaction is rapid and correct, we can greatly reduce the need for service elsewhere and the consequences of the event. Therefore, emergency services outside the hospital must be very organized. Then I want to introduce what was just discussed earlier: How do we create an organization within the system so that we use our best methods? It was called the Development Center of the Medical Center, which I think is very good. It gathers all professional knowledge and development and organization to one place. This information is not necessarily being added. It's just being collected at the same place where people are discussing it, talking about how we can educate these sectors as much as possible and how we can develop better methods and new resources. This is what I think we need to watch in the outside hospital. We have an outpatient doctor in one place, we have the ambulance officers in one place, and the medical flight somewhere else. Then we have a land surgeon who has some kind of surveillance and we have a special staff of medical transportation in different places. It's all spread, no focus. That's where I think it's possible to succeed. This is what we've done to the police with the police's educational and professional development centre, where it's all been united in one place, and it's done a lot of power, and it's already done a lot of good. I think it's somehow like this we're supposed to watch. How do we achieve more efficient planning and development goals, and how do we sometimes develop innovation in the health sector? We need to make sure that people with ideas of electronic solutions, new techniques, and not necessarily doctors - not all need to be doctors of the medical system - are motivated by them. How do we use psychologists, medical staff, nurses, and doctors to do more teamwork together? There has to be an incentive for all these innovations. We support innovation in everything we do here, and we have a huge supply of innovation and technology. The funding we're putting into innovation, these emphasis, has to be welcome into the health sector. It's not good what you've heard of people trying to do this, to combine both the technology sector and the health sector into innovation, that it's said, "If you have any other idea, it's much easier for you to just wear it." Forget this public system around her. It's not good to hear it. This must ensure this incentive to increase the effectiveness of health care and increase the availability and resources so that we can render more services. There must be a wide opening for innovation into the health system. I think it's important. Besides, we need to keep the staff very focused. Let us not just decide that an employee is not available in this place or that this is just an out - of - date arrangement. Things are so different, and we cannot view Iceland as just one factor, we have a lot of health - trained people all over the world who want to come home. If we offer some new methods or more freedom or some interesting arrangement, the person might want to come home. Now transport is improving, technology and telepathy are becoming more advanced, and there may be greater odds that Icelandic health care professionals want to work more frequently at home, e.g. Live in the countryside in the latter part of their life and care for some medical services there, so let's be careful not to decide ahead of time that no one wants to work in the country or that there is no way to provide health care at this site because there is no one to work there. Both technology and the variety can help us in this, and then we should keep in mind that not everything is needed in the Land Hospital. I think it's very important that we do that. You can talk about the health - care system for hours, but finally, I just want to mention one thing we need to remember: How can we increase the first grade reaction in our medical care so that we are not always responding to the third grade, as I would like to call nursing homes? How can we help older ones more quickly, provide them with more security at home or in a service apartment, so we deal with the third grade reaction? This is what I was talking about earlier with the responders. This also applies to prevention and mental health care, how we can enhance our first reaction to reduce the consequences so that we do not need to use the third grade reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u56	Madam President. At the beginning of my case, I wish the highest. Healthcare Minister to congratulate you on the contributions of this document and by the mechanism itself. This may be a key point for us to look to the future in how we have health care in our country, which is of great importance. I'm glad that in policy, people do not lose in detail the details of individual agencies, individual services, etc., but are looking beyond the realm. Just as there is a lack of such things in the Icelandic medical system, allowing us to see the overall picture of all the fires burning to the highest degree. Minister mentioned earlier. Although they need to be taken and put out, fires that do not burn can become the lighthouses we sail for when deciding how we will have health care in the country. We should respond but not use them as sea signs. I can't quite say that there's going to be an unsettled intention of serving this document in ten minutes, but I live so well to have a seat on the bottom. The welfare committee, therefore, has the expected time to discuss it there. That's fine. I'd like to touch a few things, and I won't be able to touch everyone that matters, it's got to stay. The first chapter of headship is for success. This is the point of good cooperation between health and social services that the role and responsibilities of the person will be defined, including because of the growth often between the state and rural society in that sector. It is important that we set a course in which to define who should do what. This is important for all services. The manner in which we set our priorities must be discussed, as shown in chapter 4 is of utmost importance. Other sections include Get to set the level of medical care. There is one defect in the schedule, as it were, but it has been often discussed with the nursing and nursing services and has been defined as a first-degree service, that health care services to someone in a nursing home is a first-degree service. It's not exactly health care, but to me it's a first-degree service. We are expected to discuss this on the committee. We want health care to be our first stop, as we have often talked about, and the course is set. Another field of service, spoken daily, is also referred to as expert services, as well as to which State's special services should be purchased on their own institutions. It is by no means given that the State has expert services everywhere. We are a small community that there are only a few places in which the ministry can be performed. We need to put this down, and at some point we agree on it. For the waiting period mentioned in chapter 8 of chapter 2, we need to get to some point of impact. There have been three months in certain cases, more in others, and even fewer in some articles. In connection with health policy, I feel that the Ministry should simply say: This is an acceptable waiting period for this type of operation, and we are going to try to work on it. A minister came in for a team job earlier. That is an enormous part of modern medicine and modern health care. Of course, there are many things that humans can do on their own, and they are well - off, but there are incompetent things that require that many professionals meet together. Then it is important that both professionals are cooperated but also between institutions for the use of those professionals, since not all institutions can have professional jobs at any given time. A consistent medical file is named in the document, which is important. In this matter, it is also of utmost importance that we find a way to ensure the safety of information available in a standard medical registry, especially because we are so small in our community. We all know each other somehow, or we're related or something like that. It can be extremely sensitive to the fact that there is a need for information on the procedure. I am so happy to see a nailed to a policy that the cost of screening should be in the hands of the State. By doing so, we will be successful, or we will increase our chances of success in that work. We're going to do the best of all the northern countries. Actually, it's not a northern country, it's a neighboring country, but let's leave it in between. This is important because it means that we want health care to be a public right in Iceland. Hence, it is so important that costs do not prevent people from reaching out for service. That's why it's one of the key elements of policy. A chapter entitled Thinking About the Future will only include education and those factors. There is a specific requirement for healthcare professionals to consider the education of other healthcare professionals. It is important that the recruiter or the health - care provider assumes to communicate knowledge and experience. In some cases it may be necessary to negotiate it or arrange it specifically with the trade unions. I know that some professionals have a problem with this in their contracts, but it needs to be nailed to the health policy that this is one of the basics for continuing to have good health. The last point I'm going to mention is a formal assessment of critical applications, which is the last figure in chapter 7. Then we come back to the point of not running after the fire. Instead, we take time to see what has been shown to be a fortress and not work. It is very important that we do so because otherwise we have no control over costs, otherwise we have no control over where we're running the system. I assume that the five-year programs mentioned will be discussed in some way at the council, at least We'll report them in due course. [[The president calls.]] But the work is just beginning, and it will be fun to work on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u57	A respectable president. We'll talk about health policy until 2030, and I'd like to thank her. It's great to have her in here and especially to get her to the welfare committee and deal with her there. As noted earlier, 27 reviews were received as a result of this medical program. It is to ensure the overall safety of health care, but not everyone agrees on how that service will be ensured. That is why some comments have been made, as I say, 27 reviews. It came, I know, a review from the Union, where there was some surprise of incoherentness, and there was something to deal with, too. It's just something we'll handle and make sure they get to express themselves freely. We also need to make sure that we keep a close eye on things involving those who are disabled. Maturity aid made comments because they are concerned about their own people. We know how sensitive that group is underneath. There is also some dissatisfaction with hospital emergency services, and it must also be said of emergency services outside the capital area that need close observation and careful attention. We have a large group of people, long-lost people, and they need close attention and careful attention. But there is something else in the medical system. I have to say, as it is, we have a great health system, which proves that I can make this hole stand. I wouldn't be doing this puzzle and give a speech if we didn't have a great health system. It shows that we have good health systems, but we too need to be careful. The biggest danger I've ever seen is a waiting list. To be on the waiting list for one, two, three months, it all survives. But when it's year or more, it's already causing a person serious harm. We must not let this happen because it is not acceptable for some person to wait for a year and swallow thousands of tablets, even having side effects from the tablets that are actually causing damage. By doing so, we are working against the aims of medicine and other laws that enable people to have the right to serve. There is also something else that we need to deal with and worry about, but it's disease prevention, how we're going to make a complete view of the disease prevention. There's a lot of bad luck there to map. Iceland's cancer community has noted that better analysiss due to treatment and increased cancer cases and also because more and more techniques are being developed to cure. Mental health. A major factor is that we need to take good care of. Unfortunately, they're not in enough trouble today. We know that good health is the second largest mail of disability. As a result, we must take advantage of these matters and make our mental - health services absolutely costly so that everyone can take advantage of that service most of the time in real life. It is also unacceptable that if you pick up your phone and plan to call and order an appointment with a family doctor, you will be notified that you will have an appointment in the first place after a month. It doesn't make sense. There's something wrong with such a system. Of course, we need to analyze it and deal with such things one, two, three. Then there is telecommunications over the Internet. We need to make better use of it. I remember thinking about this telecommunication service over the Internet how our neighbors in Greenland did. They had a portable machine that could do various things in remote settlements. It was a very clever and relatively cheap method, and it provided a measure of security and is, of course, what we need to do as well. Then there's something else that I like to think about, too, and it's physical therapy. There's a lot of mail in getting people back to work - and let me know about it. I've not been in a lot of physical therapy lately. It's also one of the factors that makes it possible that I can be here. We're supposed to be a big addition to physical therapy, but unfortunately, there are extremely waiting lists today after physical therapy. Somehow we need to increase the number of physical therapists and deal with the problem. Then there is something serious, but there are medical records. It's a very serious matter, and it's totally incomprehensible to me that there is still a situation where insurance - based doctors are active in hospitals and have unorthodox access to medical records for insurance companies. How pathetic it is to read about in an insurance company's assessment that this and the other were seen in medical records! People don't even have a clue about it, and they need to check if they're right, and they find out that people who were working perfectly for that insurance company could walk from their office to the hospital and get the data they could get. Such open medical files are intolerable and should not be tolerated. This is a violation of the rights of people who cannot defend themselves. There is an amazing amount of traffic accidents, and people who suffer from road accidents need hospital services. If there are foreign parties, a unit is activated to determine the cost of treating the individual and sent out accounts for it. If it's an Icelandic citizen, it's just the hospital service that's taking over. I feel that we should look forward to reassigning funds from insurance companies, a so-called reform fund, which we know about in the collapse, they disappeared from the country. These are funds that we should settle regularly and use to promote health care. Because, of course, it is not unreasonable for insurance companies to pay for the damage done. Rather, they also pay for hospital service. It's only fair and it's not only foreign but also domestic. There's a lot more to talk about this course. But as I say, it's very good that she's out there and she's good to have her on the welfare committee, and it's gonna be nice to have people visit someone who's critical of the policy and wants things to come in. We will accept it, and hopefully we will get away with it so that we will be proud of our health policy and put things in the best shape possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u58	Mr. President. It's all right here, as far as it goes. We're talking about seven main subjects in this direction, and I could give a talk about each of them at about 10, 15 minutes. Of course, I had confidence in a welfare committee to discuss them thoroughly. Whatever the case, where the heart of this government is beating is located. In the year that the government entered, 2017, the total health costs were less than 200 billion, 196 billion, but by the end of the term, according to budget 2021, the government will have raised these health - care costs by nearly 45 billion on solid prices. It is well given, and it is clear that the goal is to build a powerful health system and a powerful health care for all of us. It's a pleasure. Perhaps just as much as possible, the subject is making sure that these funds will be used in the best way possible. I think there's no disagreement in this room, rather than in general among us Icelanders, that we want to run a powerful health system here. We're going to do it together. And we feel that that that even makes sense. to collaborate, under the government's hat, a powerful hospital, but we must also have the opportunity to recognize the importance that a private member can offer health care, and they do so on an equal basis when it comes to financing compared to state-set institutions, there are the same criteria as they would have to be minimum of equal in terms when it comes to financing. It seems to me that in this medical program, people are being offered a guarantee. I can celebrate. Of course, it is possible to give lengthy talks about how we should try to put the personal enterprise to work, to build and to support the public health system. Of course, our whole health system is public because we have more or less to live up to, but how we want to improve the integration and cooperation of our private business or government or public health care is important, and we are not entirely at the end of these matters, and we may not always agree on how we are going to do so. But that must be one of the main concerns of the welfare committee. There is one point, however, that I think it is necessary to discuss here, more than perhaps others, but it is all very important. There is one of the greatest challenges that we face in the coming years and decades of health care, of course, is how we use our resources. There will always be more money, and we will probably never be able to meet all that demands. Even more challenging, it is to ensure that there will be a sufficient number of people who are willing to try to educate themselves in order to be a doctor, nurse, physical therapist, dentist, etc., to perform the amazingly important work of health care. When you review the synopsis proposal, there is no. Three people in the foreground, fine as far as they can go. True, I feel that once you've put together those 9 terms that are underneath, they were primarily considering some kind of personnel policy of the public system. These are some of the goals that are worthwhile in the state - driven medical facilities. That's good and good, but we need to go much further. We need to consider how we can build up an Icelandic health system - our ultimate goal, of course, is to ensure health care for all, as good as possible at any given time, and always be among the peoples of the best ministry. But we need to consider how we are competitive with other countries when it comes to the international health market because people in the health sector, nurses, nurses, doctors, X - rays, etc. are all people who are not bound by national boundaries. We need to pay particular attention to this. I'm convinced that it's not just about like that. pay we could offer, it's also about multiplicity in employment selection, e.g. The young woman who decides to go to Sweden for advanced education in medicine, oncology, or family medicine sees that there may be other opportunities here in Iceland but just to enter a hospital. She owns, for example. the possibility of working independently or working with private partners, and she sees that for the future she may not be dependent on whims, so to speak, one employer. That is especially why I think it is so important when we discuss how to organize health care that we consider giving these remarkablely talented people a wide range of opportunities for choosing a career rather than just for the State. I'm prepared to see that the diversity in these topics will also strengthen the public business because everything can work together if we plan things wisely. Time's running out. One last thing, Mr. President. It is also necessary, but you may wonder, " Is it to be part of this health policy to 2030?'Or is it simply to cooperate between the highest levels? Ministers of health and the highest. Minister of innovation, to establish a specific policy on how we can promote and promote innovation in the health system, both public and private. We need to establish a policy on how we can attract young people, not just those educated in health science, but also in the fields of software, engineering, computer science, etc., here to help promote innovation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am absolutely convinced that our situation in Iceland is incredibly strong when it comes to making wise use of our modern health systems, which brings good to all of us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u59	Mr. President. We here discuss a proposal for a resolution on government health policy, which is the finest set as far as it goes, and the importance of good health for the entire nation. I must admit, however, that in terms of the material, this proposal does not seem very critical and quite clear that the health - care program of the health minister, which is expected in the autumn, from year to year, is what should be addressed. There, the politicians and ministers will be expected to be in individual categories, declared objectives, measures and such. Then I wondered if this is the approach we're happy with, i.e. This bold discussion of a relatively meaningful document, followed by a free - hands minister for further expansion, even without the arrival of the council. Anyway, I'd like to think about it because I don't quite know where the rest is. I'm one of those who have access to the case through a welfare committee as an agent there, and I look forward to the work there. I'd like to discuss a few more episodes. There are some challenges mentioned at the outset, and I would like to mention in particular what is put under the hat of lifestyle - related diseases because health matters are also about the prevention of disease. I would have liked to see this hat put higher under the head with goals and consecration. I hope that comes later. But I'd like to celebrate the words of the highest. A health minister earlier noted that it is important not to follow the headlines of the day because it is the fact that life - style associated diseases are one of the most common causes of human health loss in our part of the world. Health care and prevention should be a priority in health care and are simply long - term investments in the health and well - being of the nation. We need to go to this category, and this is a major responsibility for politicians because the campaign of such emphasis and projects and the benefits of which will simply not be measured in one terms period. It takes courage to look into the future. It's where the public interest is now. This fine document is broken up in several lawsuits, and many good things there, though I reiterate my criticism as an active policy tool with goals, data and operations, etc., and some steps forward. In the Force for Success, I would have, e.g. They want to see patients committees, users, and their right to choose the hosts of the ministry, their right to deal with future health care procedures, and their needs and preferences at the top of the list of their jobs, they have the necessary diagnosis of health care and funding of individual services. Keep up the service. This section describes health care as the first phase, second phase, and third degree of service. The first step is health care, a good and important goal, and perhaps what has been achieved by humans in the longest part, the longest of which is, and perfectly normal to start at the first phase. Then there is a second - degree service defined as a specialised service outside hospitals, followed by the third stage of the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital. In fact, the second - degree service is anything but first - grade health care, and the National Hospital and the Third - Level Hospital. It is stated in the policy that in particular the capital area has to do with independent experts, but this score will reach more or less of all of the health institutions of the country outside these two major institutions. So the second step has become quite large, but it's all over; all over the country hospitals, independent health care professionals of various ways, aging services, home service, rehabilitation, if I get this right. Furthermore, it is clear, and this may be the point I'd like to come to, that there's quite a overlap because the services of two doctors and clinics in the walking departments and day departments are in many ways comparable to those in specialist clinics and clinics. What I would like to understand - as much as I would like to understand, but at least in this context - is why this service itself is not in charge of this category but of its services, its origin. I wonder: " If it's deliberately done to use the type or origin of the service employer, the management form, I don't know what the real economy is about. That's a question I can't wait to dig in, just to figure it out, 'cause I understand that sort of thing. I can't quite figure out why this is all about. Most of all, I would like a health - care organization to be in such a way that in most areas patients had a choice for those in the service. Of course, our fine society's interests make it possible that there are a number of areas that depend on the operations of the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri that will be done nowhere else. But just as there are a number of gray areas and are increasing, they are using technology that can and will make changes in how we approach health problems. I would like to see the development of this second phase of service, and hopefully this development will be in accordance with the needs and choices of those in need of the ministry, but not in accordance with the health authorities' wishes at one time, and especially with the wishes of the current service providers at the first and third service stage. So I'm talking about people's chances of enjoying at least to the same extent as now the service of independent experts if it chooses and if these parties meet the same criteria for quality, security, and cost, as well as for the members of our great system. My objective should be to be at peace and to cooperate with each other and to agree on where a particular assignment is being carried out, and hopefully that is the goal. Speaking of technology innovations and changes, here you can also see how telepathy, a special hobby of mine, fits into this routine of health care, under what they hear. As far as I can see, if we have the chance to take advantage of a remote cure, we're at least... try it on two of those three points. And how do we do that? I'm naturally in trouble here with all of this. The policy has entered the manipulative problem. It is a natural resource of so large that it is not in the power of the most skilled health - care minister to solve it alone and unsatisfactory. It's just that way. It's a community matter. In recent years, especially among nurses, the problem has increased dramatically, and I cannot help but use this opportunity and focus on our fine group of reveries, along with other fine members of the council, in which we speak of trying to match the women's interests. They're mostly women's groups, I remind you. However, it is not only the pay that counts with regard to design problems, the level of coldness among health - care professions, is becoming increasingly urgent. I'm the highest. A minister to dig into the reasons why that is so, because the answers there could become an important guide in the health - care policy work. We have a professional class, with vast education behind us. This is a job that needs vision, and then we're dealing with coldness, so the solution is there. The minister has repeatedly said, last in the Sermon on the Mount, that she is not interested in eliminating a private part of the medical system. That's how I understand at least Minister, although using the wording to strengthen the public system, she did so. That's secondary. I just remind you that the health system is an official system. It is a social reconciliation. And within that system, it has to be in my opinion that there are different forms, not of form, but because it is the way the system serves its users best. The national health system exists for users. It does not show good service to prevent users from choosing if possible. The aim of providing health care as needed and guided by it should be the national health insurance rights, not an organized service provider. Icelandic medical systems need staff. The carer's problem will not be solved by limiting the needs of health care professionals at one stately convention. The Icelandic health system needs innovation. Technology needs to be developed quickly. And the examples from everywhere, not just in the medical field, show that it is more likely to happen in places where people can run fast and are motivated to do so. The financial resources need to be properly used by the national health system. Whatever form of service they are called and no matter what services they perform, it is most unlikely to do so. The answer is varied as long as it is guaranteed that all will have to meet the same standards and be funded in the same way. Finally, I want to thank the highest. Minister for being so on time to contribute this document and give us the General welfare committee so that we can work it out well. I know it's the highest. A minister will be prepared to help us with that work, and the cooperation with the Committee will continue in good practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister of Health and all of us, congratulations on this document. We're on our way. I may mention that one and a half years ago, on May 31, 2017, the General Assembly adopted the decision of the Assembly of the Foreign Party by then. paritaprevir Elisu Lára Arnardóttir, to hide a health minister to start working with a health programme for Iceland, in consultation with health care professionals. Now we're on it. The existing proposal highlights seven main issues, each with a range of policy targets, which are then explained in a report. I'm going to hit anybody I want to come on. The first major subject is lead to success. It aims to establish a clear set of health care legislation and to make clear the role of health institutions and health care providers and how they should deal with them. Today, there are very different services at the health centres of the country and have been called for clear health policies on local services. It was a pleasure to hear the history of the highest. HCPs consider the local service to be performed. It is very different across the country, and it is called upon to say that if a certain service is offered at one place or another, it is also there, as the nature of the situation cannot be done and not always explain why the service is offered only in some places. There have been significant changes in the services of the medical institutions in recent years, and in some cases the expectations of residents are higher than the financial resources afforded by the attitude: If such a doctor comes there, I want it here too. I believe that there is a greater need to explain the services to be performed at the medical facility and it sounds to me that it will be done. The two teams deal with funding, role and financial responsibilities of state and community on health care, that it will be well defined. Despite the growth of money into health care, as shown in the debate. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, doesn't look like we've reached health care control. This may be due, in part, to the lack of properly defined role of components. Both I and others have expectations that such a definition might arise so that people will be aware of the local service and expectations given for the ministry. These two articles discuss proper service in the right place. This goal, I think, is very important. Doing well will help us to make use of the health - care system much better than we do today. It is important to work if, like health care, people are able to become the first stop in the ministry in increasing numbers through the first phase of health care. There's a lot of money going to phase two where people should be looking for a first-stage service. A secondary service, a special service outside a university hospital, is very wide, as the last speaker mentioned. It contains health institutions. The Parliamentary arrangement speaks of a second - degree service rendered more and less at all the health institutions of the country. This ◯ More and less is a bit vague, and I expect it will change in its circumstances. The welfare committee and it will be defined a little better. In two, it's the 7th dot that caught my special attention. It says that national health care and services will be balanced by remote health care and well - planned medical procedures. Remote health services may already be started throughout the country and for example. In a church town monasteries, it has been for some time in an experimental fashion. It is a service that will be performed on a far greater scale in this country and is well received. I further encourage the health minister in this regard, but there is also a general plan to promote telecommunications of health care. When I first read this, I was struck by a shock and thought: " All right, first degree health care is health care, then specialists come and then college hospitals. So, are we in the country just supposed to have a long - term health service? So if it doesn't work, we're going to go to the ambulance that's going to be on Selephoss? But I took a stand and realized that I was making up for the missing things, but it is said that of course not everyone can be in the same place. Will it probably save a lot of money for Iceland's health insurance trips that come to Reykjavík to see a doctor and chat: Yes, it's been fine in the past six months, and then I won't have to see you again for six months, and I can do it through the long care board. Hospital transportation and outpatient services are issues that I hope will receive special attention at this job. Clearly, the Internet needs to be improved, contributing to further education, training, and, especially, support to those who provide international services around the country. It has been growing stress over the past few years, and it will be exciting to watch a research project on hospital helicopters in the South, which hopefully takes place this year, as authorized in the budget bill. All I can say is that I actually agree with every word in each speech. paritaprevir In the past, Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year says that this is something that we need to consider much more clearly and especially where there is a lot of travellers. I miss a discussion about hospital services at medical institutions, though, that there is no context that was seen in the candidate ideas of the 2017 Parliamentary arrangement, to consider the application of health care centers in the country's area, which can ease the strain of the Land Hospital. Hopefully, this will be part of the medical dating process. It contains e.g. In many parts of the country as a service to people who struggle with minor illness, the Kragas Hospital is in a very effective area and, of course, a medical facility. They can be very useful, e.g. in rehabilitation, to remove more expensive resources at a higher level, as the university hospital and the Akureyri hospital, and to use them for rehabilitation when people need to be strengthened before they go home. The third main objective, the people in the foreground, is an ambitious chapter in which there is no more to see than to be quick and efficient in carrying out good goals. It is quite clear that it is necessary to reverse the frightening development of a lack of qualified health care professionals. There's no time to waste. Much of the health - care providers do shift work, and it is long aware that 40 hours of work days are very taxing for shift workers, whether it is healthcare professionals or others who work three times as shifts. V.E.G. A health secretary has introduced ideas of action to support better care for nurses. Clearly, pay and working hours, the weeks of work, are a major part of the solution that needs to be discussed. She did all right in her speech, and I thank you for that. I'm glad that this work has started, and as indicated by the lower health minister, it also applies to other classes, not just nurses. The fourth goal is active users. The emphasis is on prevention and health care, and it is of good quality. It's really cool, but it could be added to our long-term disease course and best - used health care providers. Since time goes by so fast, I'm going to jump into the last point I've got, thinking about the future. Senators have talked about innovation in health care, and then I want to highlight welfare techniques and point out that there is no problem. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has proposed a Congress resolution on the welfare technology that is waiting to be submitted to the council. I hope it's going to be fast and effective and with health care. Finally, I thank you and congratulate us again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u61	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for this review and this Parliamentary arrangement for health policy to 2030. Of course, it is good to get such a course, and it is necessary, some of which are interesting and other things just spoken in general. I'm going to start by just starting with the lead for success. It discusses the responsibility and authority of the rulers of the institutions. Part 8 says that all aspects of the medical system are selected by professional skills including: There are demands of leadership and experience in policy-makers. Of course, this is very important. It was also mentioned in the previous discussion that it is important that we make good use of our money, the large amounts of money that go into this system. Of course, it is also the responsibility of the agencies. I'm here to mention this because at the meeting of the panel came at the end of the last year's representative from the Ministry of Health. It was a matter of financial management and status at some clinics. On the basis of the Ministry, it was stated that government problems were held in certain clinics. Of course, it's a concern, and I'm glad it's inserted into policy. But at the same time, I would like to encourage a health minister to look for ways to handle such matters; they are naturally serious in that respect, in order to address all the services and operations of the local organisations. It's very urgent, it says, as if I'm in my mind, that professional skills are being discussed in the ways of those who do these jobs. Then I'm going to step next to a chapter entitled Right Service in Place. That's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The K. Gylfadóttir's team mentioned earlier, that the services of national experts will be cut off by remote health care and well-organized medical transfers. Hv. A senator named the area Skaftárepp, a village monasteries, and so on. I think I can claim that this was a good one and is important, but, of course, it is important that there are staff who know how to use this technology, and we try to make good use of the latest and best technology at any time. It's good to see it's in there. But I thought a little like that. paritaprevir In K. Gylfadóttir's company, when she mentioned that this was the last resort that they had made for the benefit of the people in this area, they lived on when the medical transfers were not available. Of course it's important, and I think we should make more use of this. It has given me a good experience. Then there is a chapter entitled The People in Foreground. There are good goals for themselves. I agree with it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said earlier, it's very important that we get to the human health system. He mentioned an example of a person who went to medical school and graduated from school to Sweden, but unfortunately, there was a great chance that the person would settle in Sweden and not come here. There are, of course, arrangements to be made here at home, things about terms, etc. It is urgent to increase the number of health professionals in many health groups and to reverse these anterior conditions. Many studies have been conducted to evaluate what attracts people to work in these articles. There are natural factors, such as wages and hours, and opportunities for leisure time. Here's a shift call. It is not pleasant to do shift work for many years. It affects people's health. It is important to try to find ways to make work time attractive. It has been known for many years that the problem is that we are losing these educated people, often experienced nurses, in other jobs. The lack of nurses here in Iceland is nothing new. It has been known about this problem for many years, and unfortunately, it has not been responded in time and has not been set out to try to resist it. We know that nurses are often considered to be the vertebral system in the medical system, and flight from this article is especially due to a high level of work loads and poor rates. In the land hospital, the problem has grown for many people in other medical institutions. It's heading for something if nothing has to be done. I'd like to mention the residences in particular. In many places, they have been designed by people from a foreign background, people who are, unfortunately, very limited in language. These people do their job well, but it is very important that members of the household be able to communicate with their employees, so I believe it is important that they have some kind of programme that, in these cases, when these foreign workers are hired, they are put in an effort to learn Icelandic. I'm going to get to the next thing that is discussed under a proper service purchase. It speaks of private people, and I acted specifically on that. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson mentioned that we are not always a team in cooperation with the private enterprise and the State at the time of health care. It is natural to realize that the government is not intervening in these matters. That's too bad because there's a lot of good in the private enterprise we're supposed to take advantage of. I'd like to mention here in particular the clinical record that serves very well. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson listed the long wait lists that have been after replacement operations. I've met people who have told me that they had to wait for up to two years to get into such an operation at the same time as they can get into such an operation in the clinical community within two months. That's the sad part, tops. A health minister, it costs a lot of money. It is the same amount that needs to be paid for joint replacement operations in the clinical community as in a foreign exchange operation at a land hospital. This has to be changed, and I encourage Ministers to use them to negotiate with the clinical situation in this regard. I see we're running out of time. Other than that, I want to thank you for these conversations that have been fine. It has, of course, been stressed that we have a powerful health system, and I take my mind under it. But this is always a matter of capital, priorities, and, of course, policy. However, our common goal is that the health system will be well qualified and serve well, and that is what this policy is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u62	A respectable president. Like other senators, I'd like to start by wishing to go to the top. Healthcare Ministers to congratulate you on this health policy. So I always rejoice when we discuss the big things and the vision and watch for a long time. Of course, that is what we should do, not, as we have just mentioned, to extinguish fires and cover pages of paper or rice that may come up - but just big things to prevent these future fires and rice. I'd like to start by mentioning 2 mg. for the vision of the future. I'm glad this is particularly about public health work, which I think is the basis for good health. The basic reason we need to minimize the use of a third degree of health care system is to build under public health. I especially like to mention this here because before we were discussing public transportation and city lines; many people think it's very unrelated, but they're very connected. In all our work, we need to put up what I would call public health glasses. It's, for example. In order to organize cities and towns, to help people to cycle or walk or to use effective means of transportation. In large cities where people use this method of transportation, you can see that obesity problems are far less common than in other communities, where people use their private car more. There's a lot to think about. I'd also like to mention particular cooperation with my rural society in this regard. My community, Mosfellstown, was the first to enter the surgeon general's work on health - control society. It's a good project in which rural society is supposed to install these public health glasses and watch public health in all its activities. I'd like to mention only chapter 3, the people in the foreground, and then they're talking about the staff. I have to admit that when I think about the health system and the people, I think about the public and the users of the medical system. However, I am not minimizing what is being said in this chapter, and I take to heart the importance of being concerned about human resources in the health system. As news reports in recent times and the discussion here have been, we know how important it is to make sure that people are interested in studying the studies that are available to people in the medical system and that they are ready to continue working there. We also know that we have the capacity to form a highly educated number of nurses who have chosen to serve elsewhere. There are surely reasons for this, and that is something we need to consider. In its section 8, cooperation between institutions, teamwork, and cross-cutting is specifically referred to as a sign of healthcare professional management. I agree with that. Actually, I think this is one of the more important factors when it comes to creating a good working environment for nurses and other public classes, which is actually the most human of women. I'd like to include the National Institute of Health in my community, Smokeyund. It is not a lack of nurses, and it is generally very easy to hire nurses and other people to work there. I think the work force explains, in part, and the fact that we're working on it, and everyone has their part in the chain. I am convinced that it really matters when it comes to building the health system as an interesting future career site. Besides, I can't bear to mention what we've been discussing here, i.e. changes in the ability of midwives and nurses to prescribe the contraceptive pill. I view it as a first step in making it possible for health care professionals to be even more trusted in their work in order to care for the patient or the user more fully. Chapter 4 of the user's effectiveness is described as an electronic user puzzle, such as a health presence, which is naturally brilliant and, in fact, amazing that we haven't been there long ago, we're just beginning to take these steps. I recall over 10 years ago working with companies who were working on innovation in this field. I think we have an extraordinary opportunity in our little community to take these steps a little fast. We have a lot of technical knowledge, and it should be easy for us to introduce new technologies that are primarily designed to improve our service, to improve access to services, as well as to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the system. This brings me to chapter 5, where we read about effective service purchases. I'm happy, as I understand this and I hope I understand the right thing, to be talking about Iceland's insurance insurance taking care of all contracts to buy health care on behalf of the state, whether it's the services of public parties or private agents. By doing so, I stress that I find it very important that in the Ministry, or institutions, I have a clear view of the cost of each step, the cost of the health service. It makes it easier for us and the government to make sure that the money is spent in the most practical way. Therefore, I believe it is important that we be aware of the cost of replacement operations mentioned earlier. Like what? paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson, who were before me in a penntu, spoke of giving the clinical ministry, and have done so in a practical way. Of course, we should always make sure that the money is best spent, so if any members can render the same service with the same qualities, we should look to buy such services. To this I want to be a member of the Independence Party - and some people think that we always want our personal health - care system - can really say that I don't care who runs the medical services. The chief thing is that he should receive the service which he needs, that good things should be fulfilled. I also think freedom of choice is important, that we are not guided into going to this doctor or into this clinic or the mother's protection there; rather, it is a person's choice of choice when it comes to choosing a health care provider. I think it's a huge factor. In order to meet that requirement, I think that we are always best prepared with a system where different parties can come to minister, but the cost is always paid from a common government fund. I guess I'll end this, because it's just a short time here, considering chapter 7, thinking about the future. Then I'd like to celebrate and talk specifically about innovation. There are, as I said before in my speech, some year from the moment I was working on such projects with companies. Then we watched Icelanders view health technology as one of our key fields of knowledge, opportunities for innovation. I don't know if it is yet, but we still have quite a few companies that have achieved amazing success on a global level. One of them is an Össur, and I'm talking about sleeping readings and other parties. Whether it is in order to create valuables and that there may be a company with new creations or with health care, we should always be responsible for a powerful scientific and research community service. We are to consider that our competitive funds are designed to make projects related to the health of the people - and I especially want to look at them out of public health - a means of getting access to such funds. In the end, we may be able to provide more intensive and better health care for reasonable amounts of money, so that the funds are well spent. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I say, congratulations on this paper. I'm glad we're here to discuss this, and I wish that the welfare committee has a good and helpful discussion about this important document and that most of the stories have it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u63	Mr. President. We'll talk here for the first time about modeling health policy before Iceland until 2030. You can be happy that it's out there. The budget of 2019 to health is 230 billion, if I recall correctly, of about 803 billion in government management, so we see that this is an enormously important document, that there is a policy on how we're going to handle matters. Then we can discuss how detailed she should be and how much more she should be. I tend to believe that, in time, we do so, it may become more subjective and perhaps more accurate in individual aspects. This is a major project and can be discussed with many points of health policy, but I had thought primarily to discuss section 2, the right service in the right place, and some points or policy points in that part. That's where even the two of them come from. until point 2 that health care will be defined as primary service, i.e. Health care, secondary service is a special service outside a university hospital, and Phase 3 service is a university hospital. At point 5, health care is said to be an active part of health care and to offer advice on a healthy lifestyle for individuals and groups. This may be one of the largest points on the project over the years, the lifestyle changes that the Western world is going through these years, and it has profound health significance and costs. It is a big, big point, and it could in itself be an entire report or a dating document on these factors. I think this and the natural aging of the people will have to take on a big issue over the years and decades in Iceland's health - care business. What I'm going to emphasize is the seventh point. It says that national health care and the services of experts in the country will be leveled by remote health care and well - organized medical transportation. It may have to do with point 9, that the National Hospital's construction projects on the Ring Road and the Akureyri Hospital will be completed in a good position to provide emergency and selective health services and intensive service at daily and walking departments. The 10th point, for the role of the Hospital as a university hospital, for this, will be strengthened, given high - tech services and a third - degree service that cannot be performed elsewhere in the country. Then we come to this major aspect of the Land Hospital's role in caring for the whole country when it is most challenging. During the past few years, I have wondered about the interaction between medical flights, airplanes, and helicopters, at the University Hospital in Reykjavík, which includes all the most serious cases of health care care care, the most serious accidents, and the most serious things often associated with heart disease, heart attacks, and such factors, nerve and spinal injuries, and such as premature babies. The land hospital has been primarily responsible for all the country's most serious cases. But when we look at the state's policy, and then I've been looking for a long time, there's no slang or policy plans on the state's disease flight, how to secure it and the access of the country's habitat to our most powerful hospital service. In this document here, this medical policy, this is the only time I see a connection to this, a biosolved by well-organized medical transport. Last year there were over 800 medical flights in Iceland. I think it's moved around 830, 840 people with medical planes and probably 130, 140 with the National Reservation Guard helicopters. In recent years, the National Guard has conducted some 15 to 60% of the reported cases requiring medical flights, 809455% of which have been treated with medical planes. I would like to suggest that in this work more emphasis will be placed on the medical transport, the contribution to chapter 7 of this health policy, to clarify more clearly where the state will take this job, where to think. Earlier today, one of our good words spoke. Councilmen on high-speed social transportation. What do you say we talk about high-speed transport, which means we're in the air? I don't know if they're gonna buy this new thing, but I think it's important that you deal with it better. Half the patient's plane is F1 and F2 transport, where people are alive or in danger of death. There are over 400 people, just by airplanes in this position, and then naturally at the National Guard. Chapter 8 of this fine card we will discuss on the implementation of the health policy to 2030, and it is assumed that implementation plans will be extended to five years of age. It is best, but it would be interesting to know what they are thinking and how detailed they are to fill the big picture. This policy - making work is absolutely necessary, so it is written down. I guess this year, it's about 27◯28% of the government's budget that is involved in the government's business spending. We're working on this by the law on public finances and such factors, and I think it's a job to do, to promote policy development into this. I would be interested to learn that this is especially a matter of how people are going to respond to the tourism services and how they get into all of this for us. What I'm most afraid of in Iceland's disasters is bus accidents and how we're going to deal with what could possibly happen, and I'm sure will be some day in the years, where 50,480 people could be killed in one accident. Group accidents and such factors, I think it is necessary for our small health systems to deal with them in this work. I've also been very interested that various government plans are better combined and integrated, such as this health policy, transport plan, and what we agreed on in June III, a policy-making program. There are various points in the document we agreed on then, about a policy-based framework, e.g. in II. chapters, goals, priorities, and standards. The aim of the government is to level access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. There are then some emphasis that should lead to defined actions or to integrate with other measures and to improve planning. There are things that are quite interesting for work at health policy, such as I-Gains A in II. section 4, where Health and Health Plans are stated to receive political treatments as publicised programmes, basic health and welfare services will be defined as and how the right of the people of the country to it will be guaranteed regardless of their habitat. Healthcare programmes clearly explain the planned procedures and activities of health institutions. The m- force says: 'The policy for public service will be established with the objective that, regardless of their habitat, the country will have the same access to basic services.' N- force reports that safe evacuation across the country will be ensured. As we examine various laws of the State, they are often used as some sort of island here and there. What is often missing is the integrating and the policies that the state shapes in various areas, where it would be more reasonable to get a more complete picture of what is being worked with the police so that there will be some perspective, some vision of all of these things. This is a large subject that we will discuss here and be able to do in many places. Time's up. We will no doubt continue with a lot of discussion about these matters here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u64	Mr. President. First, I'd like to agree with a lot of other things. Congress members are happy that we are discussing this policy. This certainly is an important part of the discussion. I must admit that at first glance I feel that the main problem of policy is that it is widely expressed. Many very nice, and most suggest that it is difficult to resist, but it is extremely difficult to put your hands on exactly where you are going. What I'm most aware of is the policy we're supposed to discuss here. It's missing all local standards and analysis. In fact, a description of where the shoe fits most, how we appreciate it, and how we're going to remedy it is not really needed. I had hoped that we would be setting the first few words, e.g. The quality and efficiency indicators of the health system allow us to evaluate how well they serve us today, what their main factors are, and how we will remedy them. In any case, it is always based on evaluating where we are, where we are going, and how we are going to get there. In any case, I feel that the standards, the basis for where we are, what our goals are in that language, and how we will address them are. Very likely, we will see more going into such psalms in the five - year program. Minister of the best. On the other hand, I would have liked to see in this main document the first time I saw such scales. It is in my mind, speaking from my experience, to sit on a financial committee, perhaps the major health - care problem, that we have a very vague idea of its overall efficiency or whether money is well spent, where it is best spent, and what the results of increased funding for certain areas of health care. Another thing I miss in policy is that I would have wanted much more discussions about it and further goals in what might be called investing in health rather than in health. They would be looking for clearer targets, e.g. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs or Social Services and rural society at that stage, and in connection with preoperative actions, education, various kinds of public health conflicts, even ties to public health goals, such as pressures on alcohol and tobacco, etc., whether or not we should take additional measures to achieve or not public health goals. All of this has to do with the same thing. Of course, this is our greatest opportunity to improve the health of the people of the land. Although we are in the foundation of a very good health system, much of it can be improved and much better, we are likely to have our biggest opportunities, the most important projects in the coming years and decades, how we increase our investment in health, in premeditated measures. It was here, for example. contributes to the days of an excellent bill that mental - health service will be rendered under health insurance in order to emphasize the importance of our mental - health service. We have talked about contributions to physical therapy to reduce musculoskeletal problems. These two problems, for example, are key causes of disability. There are tremendous opportunities to do much better for the people who, in turn, use our health system. This may not have been surprising, but I didn't think there was much discussion about the freedom of the patients and the freedom of choice in the general health system of this policy. Of course, there's a routine: I think it's as important to our health system as any other component of economic activity that it's freedom of choice and that it's competition for staff as well as for customers, so to speak. That patients have a selection of whom they are looking for service. It is the wealthiest motivation for a health - care enterprise to have to do with quality and effectiveness. As far as the staff are concerned, the health - care system is an exciting field for staff, and it is sought more than just one job. We can hear very commonly from the medical professions today, e.g. with regard to the tremendous status of the Land Hospital, that it simply dissipates individuals from being educated to work because it can be very difficult for experts to return home, making choices about the workplace. This should always be kept in mind. Patients and health care professionals should have health care options. A competition is always promoting increased efficiency and more innovation, whether in the health system or in the other, we have tried most areas of economic activity. What is most important to us as we look at this policy is the assessment of the current situation regarding the quality and effectiveness of the system. That's where I think the situation today is clear. I'm very uncomfortable with how little we really have about our position in this regard. It is a joy to know that in the course the exact effective purchase of services is being done, and both the public system and the personal development system, or run by another person, we can say, shopping criteria and rules, that there are more and more to pay for public health care. When it comes to e.g. The nurses, or services around nursing and living space for elderly persons, who are primarily treated by non-EU authorities, we make very clear demands on what we want without necessarily financing them with the same requirements. On the other hand, when we look at the largest unit of health care, the Land Hospital, we usually give up very kindly without making very clear demands on what we want for it. I very much miss a financial committee when we discuss additional contributions to the Land Hospital, which is undoubtedly the most important health - care management unit, how little money we get about what we can get for this money, how well they are used, what opportunities are there to make it more effective, and what the demand of increased funds to the hospital each time. There we clearly have the opportunity to make significant improvements. I look forward to seeing how this work is coming forward, and I really hope that the health - care committee will be even more critical and especially that a very important part of our health system is the so - called private part of the health system that needs attention. True, we should make it very clear and well established both in quality and in effectiveness, as well as in the public health - care system, but this is no less important to us than to the public for the rightness of both patients and health care professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u65	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir It's a great document. It's a great place for Mr. Víglundsson's Þorsteinn. Congratulations, chief. Minister of health, with that paper. I noticed what he mentioned, and there may be a lack of quality and surveillance involved. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir spoke of a mixed system and private driving, etc. I'm not going to go out into that kind of politics, but like what. Víglundsson It is all about how public funds are spent and what the public will get for that money. That's what it's all about. Throughout the years, I have criticized private health care, which has primarily been about the lack of quality and effective monitoring of the providers and institutions who have taken care of the private part of the health system - I just wanted to share it with them. There are ways. I've talked to a doctor at the Reykjavík Medical Association, and they have a variety of extraterrestrial qualities on which they live. So I think it is easy to arrange this so that the nation can succeed as a course of best service, no matter who is in charge. I welcome long - term thoughts and health tests. It is also less likely that the nation's health will be used every four years for each of the total elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I did not judge by the fact that a specific question was addressed to me, so of course, I use that opportunity to extend a talk period. [[Up front.]] It's all good because I left my talk class earlier, which is different from me. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator comes in, shows that quality standards and efficiency are extremely important to us. Today, we probably have 10.5% of our total supply of land in the health - care system - the highest. If I'm wrong, a minister will correct me - something far from the North. However, we are younger than the northern nations, and we know that the health - related cost is very old. It grows greatly as societies grow older, so we can expect that the health - care cost of our health system will increase greatly because the nation is growing very rapidly in the next 10 to 15 years. Therefore, efficiency is so important. We must have a clear view of the results we are going to pursue, how we will get it, and whether we have other ways. I mentioned in my speech an extra emphasis on investing in the health of the population, e.g. with increased preoperative and interventional procedures early in the psychology and other procedures - we know, for example The effects of chronic psychiatric disorders later on in life. The increased cooperation between social authorities and health authorities is of utmost importance, and there are good and enjoyable opportunities. For the private part, I have also said very clearly - and therefore I rejoice that there is a certain level of equality between the public system and the personal skills involved in shopping and health care - that it should not be negotiated with independent operating doctors, such as a collective agreement, but that of making very clear demands on both efficiency and quality, and that it should be negotiated on that basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u67	V.E.G. President. First, I want to celebrate the appearance of health policy and express my joy at the height. Secretary of health has been sitting here all day. But there are a few things I want to clean up. Civil society is said to have an important role, especially in the service to which they are to be performed by law, including the U.S.A. The issues of the elderly. This may be said to have more important factors in the community. It has been said that the policy adopted by Akureyri City could apply to many parts of the country. It assumes that older people can live longer in their home and will follow the course that Akureyri has continued to cost themselves only a fraction of the amount now set up in the management of aging institutions. In other words, we need to meet people where they are at each particular time and though it is certainly important to build a nursing home, they should not be the sole source of advice. Recent losses have sounded that there is a need for attention in the health - care system. It is true that we need to pay attention to design everywhere and in all things. There is a lack of nurses, but there are other classes that we should consider. There are doctors, orderlies, and others. I'd like to see if there's a way of opening up some of the CDs beyond the present, and preferably all over the country, that students' space are organized, etc. so everyone enjoys. Earlier today, I heard an answer from the highest. Healthcare Ministers that she had sent health - care professionals a call to see how we could handle the challenges we face. That is exactly what is stated in this program to expect a contract with the staff to be prepared for study. I think it's a very good option. It is also a joy and a joy to have nurses raised at the University of Akureyri. In this regard, I find it very important that independent health care professionals are also part of the public health system, i.e. if Iceland's Medical Insurance deal works the way it's supposed to work. If we look at the service that is to be active for all the people in the country, we need to be sure that proper design and equipment are available. I mention this because in the middle of hospitals, it's mostly hospital transport workers and emergency personnel that treat you until the dock is clear. I miss a little bit of the fact that there is no further explanation of how this service will be conducted. You see, I would like to say that the extracurricular service is more important to health care. People of health are named, and it is handled well, with emphasis on health control and prevention, and it becomes part of all services, especially the services of health care. It would also be helpful to find a rehabilitation site in the medical program, since it is as important as it is. One of the factors that can be called prevention is just a legal adjustment to Iceland's Medical Insurance, that they are involved in the payment of psychotherapy therapy. I hope that it will soon become reality. We also have hospitals and health institutions around the country, and I'm sure we're looking at a point where it's clear that there's not much more to be added in the service of a land hospital. So it's a little strange, I'd like to say, to the highest. A health minister should have assigned the Land Hospital to receive youths into drug abuse and addiction, a service that the United States has so far performed. I would like to ask myself, " Is it obvious that I could continue with these youths? ' I think it's a very important thing. At the end, I'd like to name users the service. They don't seem to have a voice in this piece of paper - but this may now be a little overcrowded and difficult to get everything to. I really hope users get voices. There's a lot of talk about them, but I'd like us to talk to them too. I'm particularly sorry about that relationship. They often want to be forgotten. I agree with the words that have been said here, the direction is good as far as it goes. But I still want to reiterate that most of her features are lacking in more detail. On welfare committees, we have the work to do and to put our arms around the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for a very good discussion of health policy, as well as a thank you for the positive tone that revolves around policy content. I appreciate it, after listening to members of the council here, both from the administrative and administrative groups, that in principle, people believe that the policy is good. I haven't heard any comments in this chapter exchange and this suggestion. Of course, it can be discussed, and some have pointed out that it really is about health care, i.e. Service as such, but less on other factors that truly affect life expectancy such as life-style, social and economic factors and environmental factors. But it's a decision to resolve it this way. Of course, when such decisions are made, you are always a bit of a problem. It has also been noted that such policy measures are not in a void; they call for other data; and in particular, members of the Parliament who have been seated at the head. A legal committee referred to this aspect. Just in view of my basic perspective that it is important for policy documents to exist longer, but also call for other policies that are both developed and active and even accepted, I have stressed the need for us to create and put up plans for five years each year based on this policy and concomitant financial strategy, i.e. that the financial programme that will be implemented to the council each year should include a health plan or a health care programme that will be aside. Each year, we are, in effect, burying, so to speak, the medical conference with its financial value in terms of measures requiring financing. Of course, health care procedures are not necessarily reflected in financial programs because of changes in practices or some other factors that do not require financial support, but there is good reason to mention them and to make such decisions. The importance of success and quality has also been discussed here. I'd like to repeat that, although it was in opposition to my first speech, that the quality plan of a surgeon's office is already signed. The office and the person listed here have signed a quality programme and the induction process will begin this year. This means that all health care providers need to make an effort to provide the quality of the services they are prepared to publish centrally, especially in order to make sure that the health services available and are available to each other are transparent and visible, that users can see what services are available, whatever its inputs, what quality requirements are made, etc., so users, i.e. users. Of course, the public whose policy it's all about are central to the whole course. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir mentioned the status of users in the document. Chapter 4 actually happens to be fully userd, so to speak, so I don't quite understand the indication, but it may lie to the board of user in general. Of course, this is extremely important. Since we have this vision, that the service is more beneficial, more efficient sharing in the services available, the health information is available, and the same as the information related to the use of each person in the medical service - and then I mean, for example, the information on health care needs. The payment system or other factors - it should, at least My vision, that the public's authority is that health care is primarily for the public, not for the sake of the ministry itself. Users of the ministry, but not hosts of it, are central to it. A few people called here the views about the use of medical transportation that they're not well-invented here. I think we can call out a very long time that something is not mentioned. I'd kind of like to mention it specifically to a health committee to be very careful about creating a new list of anything not mentioned here, but try to stick to what this policy really is about. It's about the basis, the methodology, the requirements, etc. but not on some aspects of the ministry. The lack of rehabilitation here does not mean that this policy does not address rehabilitation because rehabilitation is part of the whole medical system. In particular, it should be part of all health care services involved in chronic diseases and infectious diseases such as cancer, mental illness, and other diseases, which are made almost on the first day of the diagnosis, it is normal for rehabilitation to be part of the treatment available to them. Not as we were thinking in the past, that if the person starts to engage in prevention, he may be ill, and then he needs to get into the health system, and then he's no longer sick, and then he's supposed to be getting rehabilitated. Now we view all these factors as being somewhat different. I agree with the approach and the discussion that we are not supposed to talk about ambulances just so they're about to move patients from place to place, perhaps the approach that has been prevalent for a short time, but much more so that we're getting needed emergency help at an accident site within a certain period of time. That's where we own, for example. setting goals. We should say that such help should have been received within 30 minutes. It is realistic to do so, and it is to be done in our outlying country, to set the goal of getting the tools needed to care for people regardless of their timeliness. This should be possible anywhere in the country, and it should be our goal. I know it's a special hobby. paritaprevir The Njáll of Friðbertsson, now entering the hall, the son of Trausti. It has been presented in the topic of viewpoints that focus specifically on the exactness of the operation programme and its strictness and accuracy and how it will appear to the council. It is not expected in particular in the Treaty or in this Senate arrangement how this conversation should be conducted. In my own heart, I love the Council so much that I think the Council can be such a useful ground to discuss a course, that I think we should do more of it than less. We should be less inclined to talk about the events of the day - and then I'm referring to the headlines that often become the main element - but more to talk about a matter over a longer period of time. Therefore, I would like to visit the Generals with this five - year plan, not to direct it to the welfare committee. I think it's way too heavy to do that. The budget goes to the budget board every year, and it's a side set that can be seen on the side. But I feel that there is good reason for me to discuss it in one discussion, as is done in reports, each year at the Council, and I hope that those years will be many. A respectable president. I want to thank you for a great discussion and look forward to your cooperation with what. to work out this important piece of advice is a well - being committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u69	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a compromise of the commitment and pollution control of the use of carrier bags at products products. The bill suggests changes to the law No. 7/1998 on the method of loyalty and pollution due to induction of the European Parliament Directive and Council 2015/720 from 29 April 2015 for the change in Directive 94/62/EC for the reduction of plastic carrier bags. The directive points out that the use of plastic carrier bags is extensive, resulting in excessive waste and ineligible use of resources. It is expected that this will further increase if action is not taken. The plastic stocks that become waste cause environmental pollution and threats to ecosystems in water all over the world. Directive 2015/720 ensures that Member States should take measures to achieve a sustained reduction in the use of thin plastic carrier bags, i.e. More than 15 microns on his domain. These measures may include the use of national targets for reduced use, the maintenance or introduction of economic management devices, as well as the introduction of the marketing barriers, provided they are moderate and without discrimination. The directive tells you that such measures may vary according to the environmental impact of the re-use of a thin plastic foil pouch or its disposal, their characteristics for indentation, persistence or specific use. The bill suggests that no later than 31st December 2019 will bring the annual use volumes of a plastic bottle to a maximum of 90 bags per person as required by the directive. No later than 31 December 2025, the annual application volume will be maximum of 40 pouches. The bill suggests that a load, including a plastic bag, is permitted to be delivered, free of charge at products sites starting on July 1, 2019, and that the fee will be visible on the box's receipt. This is further than the directive specified in view of the obligation to all carrier bags, i.e. not only plastic. In accordance with the EU Directive, Member States are also allowed to separate plastic bags, which are blistered by more than 15 microns, which are often present in the trade clinics. However, the bill suggests that this space will not be replaced and that the bill will reach a plastic carrier bag, regardless of their thickness. This is to cope with plastic pollution and overindulging and to set a good example. Finally, starting January 1, 2021, it is suggested that a plastic carrier bag be not delivered at standards of sale. The ban does not reach a carrier bag of other substances, e.g. multidose sachets and non- plastic biodegradable sachets. This is also longer during the induction procedure than required in the directive. According to the Directive, Member States are allowed to limit the marketing of plastic carrier bags provided they are not extending beyond necessary and that the limitations do not include discrimination. This makes it suggested that the delivery of a plastic carrier bag only results in delivery of plastic carrier bags for goods. If the bill becomes legal, shops can still carry plastic loads for embassies at commercial stores. It should be noted that the prohibition of plastic carrier bags is intended not to be total solution for the problems associated with the use of plastics but to be one of the many necessary procedures. This is an important step. Most people buy, e.g. regularly for food and often carry your products home in bags. Thus, the operation involves our daily lives and increases our awareness of plastics and its use in our daily lives. The bill follows the suggestion of a meeting point on plastic activities represented by industry, rural society, environmental organisations, other organisations, public institutions, Generals, Councillers, and others. The group returned a minister's proposal for 18 measures in November. One of the carrier plastic bags was left behind. Another suggestion of the meeting area, assistance to consumers who come with their own dressings under purchase foods, have already been implemented, and preparation is being made for a proposal that includes recognition for excellent plastic-free solutions. There are other proposals being processed in the Environment and Resource Ministry but they hide, for example, in the form of a awareness of the use of plastics and the application of plastics. It is also expected that the European Union will agree with the spring 2019 new directive to deal with plastic pollution, which includes: proposed that Member States be obliged to reduce the use of food stores and a disposable plastic drinking cup. The directive will be implemented on the basis of the EEA Convention. In the discussion of plastics, it should be emphasized that plastics last for a very long time and are suitable for various applications. However, that quality makes it particularly unsatisfactory as a single - use product. Plastic is a large sized disposable product for single use only. These may follow a few moments but may last for tens and hundreds of years as waste. Plastic does not disappear or decay, but it breaks down into smaller and smaller pieces and eventually becomes a microplastic. In order to produce plastics, oil is needed, and plastic itself is potentially harmful to the environment. By banning a plastic bag, we deal with the task, and the large amount of plastic bags in the environment is important. However, the ban has far more extensive effects. Again, what we live our daily lives and are directly motivated by solutions without plastics. Reducing plastic bags have already been banned in many countries, such as Italy, France, India, Kenya, Macedonia, China, Bangladesh, Mauritania, Uganda, and Madagascar. In New Zealand, bans have been adopted that take effect in summer and carrier plastic bags have been banned in a number of cities in the United States and two states, Hawaii and California. Thus, we are following in the footsteps of ambitious countries when it comes to these matters. The country's bans are well supported, but according to the MMR survey published in October, nearly two out of three Icelands were offered a ban on single-use plastic bags in stores. A little more than 41% said a great deal about such a ban. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and the larger image it's part of. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u70	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to celebrate this bill as the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister proposes here. I believe that on the journey there is a very important issue regarding our sending out a clear message, not just to an Icelandic community, but to the global community. We decide to go beyond the European directives, and that's very important to me. Icelanders are supposed to know that they are a nation that takes its environmental role seriously, taking the lead with a good example, as we do to form in energy sources. So I think the bill is extremely important, and especially welcome. I believe the council should try to end this matter quickly and quickly, but would first and last use this opportunity to celebrate the matter and give the highest commendation. Minister for the march.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u71	A respectable president. I come up here alone to celebrate this good bill, which is in the mind of a council decree that I have twice proposed for the council under such a ban. In fact, it also contains instructions on plastic particles, microplastics. They are being addressed in the maximum plan of action. There was a minister here to expect 18 measures to be taken in order to reduce plastic usage. These suggestions should be prepared this year on September 1. It's controversial. You can see it when you look at the reviews that were received through this operation program as a meeting site, so called, won. In fact, I had a seat on the side of the government. Some people have questioned whether this is the right way to match the use of plastics, i.e. banning plastic bags, and pointing out that plastic bags can be made in many ways. They can be used repeatedly for waste, even for repeated use in stores. It has been suggested and often referred to as a witness to a Danish study where it is stated that, after all, more of a number of sources than plastics, some of the other packages we all consider to be environmentally environmental. There is much to think about in this regard. One is that this dance study assumes that the plastic is in a recycling process, but here in the country, plastic bags are scraped, which are definitely not environmentally married. And there's something else in this too, which I think is less important, and that's that this plastic embargo is an intervention in people's everyday lives. Such activities in people's everyday lives have a multiple impact on how people think about plastic and environmental things in a wide sense and can lead to even taking their whole life into reexamination from environmental issues. I also think that these skeptics often apply to people who may use the same plastic bag again and use the same bag wisely, as well as to people who may always get a new bag and a new bag. In reality, though, people who wear a bag or a paper bag may be more aware of these matters and use the same bag over and over again. People who use these plastic bags that have been sold in store will use a new plastic bag. In many respects, plastic is a typical product of the 20th century. It's mostly oil, and it's a very clever invention in many ways - really just brilliant. It's so bad, and it's so good to use. But in the other respect, like so many things of the 20th century, it is utterly repugnant to us. Brilliant and repugnant at the same time. We're a bit wasted by the 20th century's genius over the years in our way of life. We need to reevaluate so many things that we could have walked in the 20th century. I support this bill. It was evidently not expected that the council would listen to me when I was offering suggestions on these subjects. We are forced to record this because the European Union brings this Regulation to us. It comes as good as it comes from the European Union, and it leads to the excellent level of consultation that it has. This, along with other hopefully, may indicate that we have stopped acting on the environment and other matters according to the commandment: Always do nothing; that we have adopted new customs. I'm excited to have my next move at the highest level. Environment Minister according to this 18-stage strategy, which he intends to operate on and on at the highest level. Minister to impress on these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-30-59.u72	V.E.G. President. First, I would like to thank those who have taken up good discussions and a good entry into the discussion of plastic pollution that may have raised a little bit on the sky during an international discussion. As we look at what is going on abroad and on a global scale, these issues are being discussed in a very broad context, how we, together, the nations of the world, can meet the challenges that are indeed in plastic pollution, especially in the sea. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for his participation in the consultation group that made suggestions for me and, of course, the suggestions. A senator has submitted here at the General Assembly. It really matters that these voices are heard here, both from government and from government position and from wherever people are in politics. However, it was noted that sometimes it is this way in the environment that it is not until we are forced to record something in the European directives we do, and it has often been that way. But what's interesting, and I'm proud of this case, is that in this bill we're going beyond the directive, including the law. In terms of the ban, but also the fact that we suggest to the bill that a load of carriers will always be charged, no matter how much they are. We also extend this to the blister bags, i.e. of all the diluted bags, which are not required to do according to the directive. I will end this with great gratitude for the discussion, and especially the encouragement from what happened. Councilmen. Why don't we just say we're in gear?
