ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u1	It has been agreed with the State Radio that from today on, live television programs will be broadcast from meetings and will open up committees on the TV program VOLV2. Since it is important for the public to be able to monitor the activities of the General Assembly, this change is a cause of joy where there is more room for a live broadcast from the Council on TV, U.S. At first, there will be a TV broadcast from the General Assembly as well as on the TV network in the same way as before. Of course, it is still possible to monitor meetings directly on the General Web site.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u2	By letter, by day. March 25th, 2019, i.e. Today, the President has requested it, as per number 8 of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with a report by the State Reconnaissance, the Continents - a comparison between office and office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u3	To this day, the Presidency Committee approved a change in the work programme. According to her, Thursday was March 28th. being called a day, but now it has been decided to have a meeting in part that day to complete a previous session. ... abouta financialprogram. A meeting will begin at the end of the week. 10:30 and stand until the first day. the financial agenda is over. The committees can meet both for the meeting and for the afternoon afternoon afternoon afternoon as well as for the afternoon meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u4	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Legal Ministers and Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social and Juvenile Affairs, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u5	President. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget about two things. First, is it safe for us to assume that the government will withdraw its financial plans and postpone the discussion that was due tomorrow, in view of the failure of the strategy? There is a deficiency, and there is uncertainty and uncertainty in the tourism service, and it must be taken into account when discussing financial programs until the next year. Secondly, I ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether the government has a plan to deal with current situation, especially the WOW airline. Does the government plan to deal with different scenarios of evolution? It has been reported that ministers have met with foreign advisers in the Council of Government, who will have been there for robbery and is an excellent banker in banking matters, from what I understand, and that the government is well pleased to have this man's opinion. But has she consulted aviation experts and developed a plan on how to react, with the aim of minimising damage to Icelandic society in the management of this airline, spending jobs, and maintaining its activities where possible? Now, there's nothing new about airlines getting into trouble. Many large airlines have done so in recent years, even decades, and as a result, there is considerable experience in dealing with such situations. Has the government looked to that experience, sought advice? But first of all, does the government have a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u6	A respectable president. Of course, the government will not cancel its financial plans, for it is based on current economic forecasts. Note that as always appropriate, there are uncertainty about economic issues. How have we prepared for the uncertainties? We have, for example. Paying up over 700 billion loans in recent years in order to be better equipped to cope with anticipated conditions, i.e. that the cooling of the economy can cool off. We have also run a government fund with great wealth in recent years, and now we play out a plan to run a government fund with handsome leftovers every year in the coming years. That's how we're living in the way of tragedy, if it happens, without having to go into business. We are living for the future in a way that we have behaved year after year, and it is so clearly revealed in the financial program that we are to discuss tomorrow. This is true if we have a failure, it is disappointing, but there are other things that are going better than foretold. There's been a lot of energy in the economy, like that. Last year's economic growth was much bigger than we had anticipated. So there is also a mixture of negative news from the economy that is very positive. When asked if the government has any plans for the uncertainty currently flying, the government has been closely observing this situation and, of course, is on its own if the situation stops. I thought why. A senator suggests that the State should step in and ensure continued operation. To answer that question, the senator must better appreciate what he is talking about. Does he mean whether it is up to the State to take over the airline, finance it, or something like that? I need to know more what is meant in order to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u7	President. Actually, I don't necessarily think it's wise. The secretary of finance answers that question at this point as to what the government will do. It might have an unwanted effect if the highest. A minister of finance would have to determine exactly what the government would do under certain circumstances. That's why I'm not asking about the plan. I'm not asking what the government is going to do. I am simply asking, Do the government have a plan or plans that are set up in different stage arts? Does the government know how they're going to react today or tomorrow or the next few days, depending on how things develop? Does the government know how it will intervene, depending on incidents, in order to prevent or minimize the damage this may bring? There are cases from abroad that governments have stepped in to keep the operation going. I'm not asking to the highest. Secretary of finance will answer that question. I'm simply asking, does the government have a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u8	A respectable president. Yes, we have had a special group of work to do for many months, who have prepared a government response plan according to different scenarios. I've told you in public several times that I don't feel justified in putting tax money into a business like this. That's why it's not part of our plans to do such a thing. Of course, if some major disorder occurs, governments need to be prepared to consider the reputation risks that might follow and as a passenger's position and how to resolve the situation. Better yet, the situation has not yet developed. But we will be ready if that happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u9	Mr. President. Similarly: A few days ago, we discussed the highest standard of conversation. The secretary of finance and the straitjackets I believe the government has set us up. Now, the basis for the plan is smiling within two days of its publication. We've all been worried about WOW's position for a long time. V.E.G. The minister signed this on mbl.is this morning - without having made several attempts to answer how to react, well, except perhaps in one part, because an interview with Bloomberg said best. Minister that if economic setbacks slowed him down, he will see no alternative but cutting down on the expense gate. In view of WOW's situation today, this is the case. I simply ask a minister: "Where is it possible to cut? Should the weakest groups carry that cut? Will the government let the welfare system and those in need of the services of still face economic hardships if things go wrong? Mr. President. Do we not need to face reality and discuss what kind of reaction is really needed to ensure the well - being of everyone? That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is it possible to change the government's budget rule to allow space to reduce possible subtractions? In other words, would it be possible to revise the government's tax spending with regard to terms of collective agreements, the worst groups, small and medium-sized enterprises, to ensure the well - being of the country? Does a minister have any weapons other than the cut-off knife?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u10	A respectable president. As I've told you today, financial plans are based on current economic forecasts. It is as if every time a Habitat Research Institute offers a hunting advice to the Minister, it is at the Senate Hall that knows that the fish in the sea are more than the scientists have decided. When the Council of Congress decides to grow in the country, members of the Council Hall will always report that this was not the correct conclusion because they know much better than the U.S. Federal Bank experts what was the most suitable interest factor today. When economists present an economic forecast based on underlying data on the economic situation, they can assume that in pontta, members of Congress will say, "This economic forecast is wrong. " Just as they did a year ago and were wrong, they now come and say that current economic forecasts are simply wrong. I can't agree with this. The only thing I can say is the same as in the financial program itself, which is sure to make certain developments, especially in air traffic. That's why it's so important that the government has put in plans based on our putting in good shape. There is a possibility that the change could be taken if the basis is missing, not just the financial agenda, but financial policy. The law on government finance says that we can reexamine policy and walk on the rest. That is why the law itself is employed. When I say that our reaction must be to reduce the cost of spending. A senator only cut himself. He does not realize that we are adding up our expenses each year, and we must review how much we increase our expenses if Iceland's economic growth stops. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A senator does not want to have a chance at last to raise taxes, for which the United States is waiting. It's not coming, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u11	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister for information will see the Internet to carry news to the country. It is not always true that a minister will answer in one way in this discourse, but he will say something quite different about Bloomberg. We're not talking about a legitimate economy. We're talking about how to react to change. And if the fish in the ocean goes, the best. Minister, you think carefully, but you don't go out on the tickets and lay down your nets. Then you wonder where you can go. Last year, 80 financial reviews came, and many mentioned it and warned about it. But nothing was responded. I'd like to have an interview with Þórólfur Matthíasson yesterday, who said, with the permission of a president: A rule has been established that can enhance the swing and that needs to be taken into account before some catastrophe occurs. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister and beg him to answer me, would it be possible to cancel the bill of payment? And number two: Is it possible to change the government's tax trade to the extent that taxes will certainly be raised on us at the highest? Ministers who have a high salary, but are they reduced by low-and middle-temperies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u12	A respectable president. No, I don't think there's any need to raise taxes and think that we can yield the benefits of this long economy with a tax reduction, as has been suggested. With the spending rule, I think it's a reason. A senator is missing something. What does this rule say? She says: The wealth of the Kingdom should normally never hold more than 2.5% in angle. Over a period of five years, government funds should be returned in equal measure. In case of a moment. One senator believes that this is a straitjacket for a government fund, which has been continuously fired by the rest of the past few years, and we have a plan to continue running the state fund with billions of resources left over, I just ask: What is the senator predicting about the future? He doesn't just want to go 2.5% in a minus, he wants to go further in minus. He wants to start collecting debts about something that isn't even the word. The fact that every five years in the rest of our lives, we have to return a government fund, which is a straitjacket, as it were. Senator. But I call him to his attention, if he be too anxious for this matter, that there is no such thing in the law. [[The president calls.]] If specific circumstances arise, this spending system can be set aside for a limited amount of time that should be sufficient. Let's hope the senator doesn't have to run a government fund, if he ever gets the power, for more than four, five years in a corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u13	A respectable president. I'm gonna ask you a question to the highest level. Minister on the third energy package. Prior to the shortest, by the end of the month, the government decided to submit to the Council of Parliamentary Directives, which form the so-called third energy package in the European Union. It is evident that in this matter there is an extremely big difference of opinion. In fact, it seems who it is. Therefore, I am now so excited that it is really the nation's decision to make whether we have the prospect of the future at the high Council to convene a bell. Depending on who will be in charge each time, the decision will be made. Will it be Europeans who will manage here or who will? Will the cable become reality? Won't he? These are big questions. I find it large that my main question to the minister is: Is it not time, in view of our desire to have a democratic society in which we have everything on board and would like to have more open democracy, that there is more for the nation to find such huge decisions that are just for the future, as shown by the EEA Treaty at the time the nation had nothing to say. The question is, chief. Minister: Is it not appropriate to refer the third energy package to the people and allow them to answer whether they want him or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u14	Mr. President. It is in my mind that it is not possible to compare whether at the time the EEA contract should have been placed under the nation or this third energy package, which is technically a continuation of the first and second, and does not include any fundamental changes in the arrangement we have today. Besides, we've been working very hard for foreign ministers in the past few months, including Because many have had anxieties and doubts, including some of them. Senator. We have worked hard to answer the questions that have come up and to analyze them in terms, and in addition to that, we have acted specifically in the way that has been presented this weekend. The bills that are on their way into the council from me turn to the sea cables, that the council had to say, and here there will be no sea cables, unless it is decided by the Council. Of course, if my bill becomes legal, the next council is making it more difficult to make such a decision. They need to go through this process that would otherwise not have to be done. Every four years, we vote for Congress, and sometimes more. More than any amount of time can make certain decisions, including ... ofthesounding of the sea cable. I have no authority to forbid elected representatives permanently and the future to make such decisions. In democracy, we choose our council members, the public votes for the council, and ours is to enforce his will and exercise that authority on his behalf. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're doing here, and that's why I don't see why I'm handling this case for a national hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u15	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Actually, it was kind of a time of history and so confusing that I don't know if I'm coming or going, unless one thing is certain that it's not the nation's last word about this, when they're talking about technical transfers and other things, when they're talking about the EEA deal in this relationship and that it's all a different kind of thing. I don't think so. I believe this is a very important matter of interest for the future. I think it is natural that one day the nation will find its place throughout all eternity. Tells you the highest. Don't Ministers suggest that there is a court order at the time of ACER reviewing all potential concerns that may arise because of our approach to the inner market of electricity in Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u16	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked if I felt that this matter should be paid nationally. I said no. Hv. A senator asked if it would be possible to prevent the council from making a decision about a cable. I propose in the spirit of a representative democracy that it is exactly the General Assembly who has determined whether a cable is here or not, but also, in the spirit of a representative democracy, I cannot bind the hands of any coming council on that subject. It would be very unnatural if I could. Whether I'm worried that we're handing over justice, I don't quite understand that question. No, we're not handing over any legal authority. Regarding whether we are handing over some power beyond what we do in our homes, we are not. That's what we spent months having checked and asked all of our top experts, they were quite a few. In fact, after considering the matter carefully, we asked those who felt that we were going too far. So I don't fully understand the question, it can't get much clearer in my mind. Whether the power goes to ACER, it's not. It's been here since the first day. It's ESAs that we have ourselves involved and that's ours, and that's anything but ACER. [[The president calls.]] Whatever it is. A senator asks about us, too, because we're not connected. What she is most concerned about is not appropriate while we are not connected. So I just feel really comfortable with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u17	Mr. President. Today, tourism is faced with a major blow if the WOW airline goes under and/or the government does not handle matters so that it does not have serious economic consequences for Iceland. A minister has received two queries and has answered them in some way. I'd like to include this discussion only on how this affects tourism. The more serious these events happen, the less distance the tourism will have to increase the minimum wage. The rate at Iceland's labor movement is just raising the lowest wage. It's some kind of bottom line, 10% mostly, and then something goes up the stairs. Then it's important to look to that, and I've discussed this before with the highest. Secretary of finance, that the money press in Western countries is talking about, not just today, but into the future, that there is a need to reduce the taxes on the most income and even bring a negative income tax, where the personal discount is paid out if people don't meet the target. Suggestion to the highest. The secretary of finance has established the tax declines, which go up the stairs. Those with the highest salary get almost the same dollar number as those close to having the lowest salary, and the person who earns little for the personal discount gets less than those with the highest price. This is not what the financial press is calling for, that the right - eyed politicians in the West react in this way. The range of vectors may be reduced now, what the tourism can do to increase the lowest salary. Secretary of the budget has a lot to do with the tax. It's a secretary of finance to reduce taxes to the lowest wage. What does a secretary of finance say about it and only on the lowest wage but not on the stairs? Is that not the scope that the Minister of finance has, is it not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u18	A respectable president. First I want to say, again and again in this discussion today, that there has been nothing yet to do with what men are asking me about the reaction, e.g. for events in travel service. So I think I'll do enough to say that if something like this happens, we together need to evaluate the possible effects of it. But it's clear that this will lead to recovery in the economy. In terms of taxes and the lowest salary, we have proposed a proposal that has not been made in a Senate document, but we have already made a suggestion, since we have reached our relative tax decline. Once we have been changing the percentage, it has been criticized over the years that the rate of reimbursement is more likely to bring to those with higher pay, that more charges come to those with higher wages by changing the tax target on their own. That is why many in this hall have often talked about changing only personal discounts, since it takes a relative advantage of those who are at the bottom and not as well for those who have a higher salary. Now we bring an extract equal to that, and they say, " That's not fair, because just as many dollars come to those near the high point as those below. ' I'd like to say, firstly, proportionately, it's best for those with the lowest salary. You come here and say: There is no need to provide extra provisions for people with 600,000, 700,000, 800,000, 800,000 bucks, even if that was only half as sensitive as a pay raise. There's no need for that. The government is not supposed to worry about them. Then I'll tell the others: Bring your declarations from the unions of these people to ask for a 0% raise. Get them from nurses, hospital staff, teachers, and others you obviously believe are groups that are not trying to improve their terms. [[The president calls.]] Or what are we doing with a tax reduction other than increasing the resources and helping these people improve their terms, which are exactly what the work effort today is about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u19	Mr. President. If space doesn't work, i.e. If these centenarian increases go up the stairs, they do not raise the lowest wage that is just what is being called for by the labor movement in Iceland today, and what is said about having to do when it comes to the future and the tax issues, when it comes to the overall review of the tax system by the 21st century, as The Economist has discussed in the process as well. This is what's being called in. Why? Yes, because there is so much pressure on the new technological revolution, the fourth industrial revolution, that pay is changing. As has been the case, middle carers and underpayers are sitting down, the income goes up, there's more money in the money. All of this adds to the inequality that has been going on in recent decades. Therefore, this is not only good for us now in these fights but also good for the future. We have to be able to see this. I hope to the highest. Secretary of the budget will see this. And he has room for control. In housing, there have been practical suggestions that are satisfied with the labor movement. [[The president calls.]] Prime Minister has had the conversation for a long time. This beach should reduce a significant amount of taxes on the lowest salary. And if it is necessary to increase taxes even on capitals, such as The Economist, e.g. Checks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u20	A respectable president. Yes, I believe our proposal is about to go out on the idea of turning down very much and most of the tax burden on the bottom. [[Up front.]] In fact, the solution is entirely customized to reduce the tax burden for the groups at the same time. A senator is talking about. His comment, if I understand it correctly, is that some tax reduction should also return to the upper income, e.g. into medium income. I think there's a bit of a misdemeanor because, after all, we're trying to increase the provision of people's income and when governments reduce taxes on those groups, the need for the same groups for raises may be diminished. [[Taken out on: right.]] I think it's very important in the situations that are now because there's less room for pay than it's been for a long time. Therefore, this should be a welcome proposal to reduce the need for high pay increases in the groups in this issue, i.e. and those around them. [[The president calls.]] But just to recall, during the past few years, the requirements have been between those groups in the range of 30 to show up in pay. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u21	Mr. President. I think the serious situation we face is not a reason to stand in this chair in a great basket. It's just that we try to isolate ourselves into how we deal with this problem. I listened to a word that was the highest. Secretary of finance that governments are working on various scenarios to deal with the problems that concern WOW and the most urgent problems we are facing. I trust it is. However, I worry and wonder, " Is this not also a reason and an opportunity for us to think only for the long future? ' Although the tour service has passed through unprecedented growth periods, it has still been quite clear during the past two to three years that this growth has not worked out in the more reliable source of this article. In fact, it is clear that for the past two years, at least, the article has been of little consequence, even with no results, which tells us that the situation we are facing today is neither unexpected nor unpredictable. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister would not agree that it is necessary to look to how we trust the foundations and management environment of our export roads. Because the tourism service shows exactly how fragile it is with the coins that we work with. This is the industry that is exposed and very sensitive to poles in the Crown's gangs and has shown this clearly, since there was almost 30 billion loss of flying just last year compared to the figures published. It appears that the article is more and less in irons or in the loss of unprecedented exponents. At the same time, small as no growth has been made, e.g. in the wand and technology sector over the last three years for the same reason; for unacceptable transport conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u22	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator when he says that it is important to do what we can to trust the export environment and, including travel services, that have gone through absolutely unprecedented growth courses over the past few years. Things have worked out. Some tourism companies are doing very well, others are less successful. Many are fired with losses. I would like to draw attention to the fact that much has affected the business environment of the country, including tourism. Of course it does. Yet, I feel that most people believe that the dollar has been around the steady state for some time now. She has been weakened since it was most strengthened, which helped all the exports, including tourism. And the accounting post for the coming summer was quite good for the past year, considering how negative the discussion was and compared with the previous year. Of course, the tremendous increase in pay in Iceland in recent years cannot be overlooked. Iceland's pay, as we are running in a newly developed financial program, have increased far beyond that in control countries, neighboring countries. Remuneration in Iceland has risen far beyond what has been meant in controlled countries, whether or not we look to the Europeans. Also, other factors have made travel providers difficult. I'm just going to name the tremendous competition that's in the air above the North Atlantic. This has not made it easy for humans, nor has it made changes in oil. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the problem lies in the Icelandic currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u23	Mr. President. Certainly, it was not to improve the competitive position of the export industry by receiving a decimal of the currency on top of the high financial raises and I'm not going to argue with him. It is obvious that if we are to trust in the long term management of export workers, the collective agreement must also take into account and not undermine our global competitiveness, as is commonly accepted and practiced elsewhere in the North countries. But it cannot be overlooked that the Icelandic swing is exactly this: We get a little ahead of ourselves, our private consumption gets stronger, and our growth increases are raised into the situation, which is further undermined by the export roads. It's not until the levels of correction begin. So we're always in a way that doesn't make sense, even for years, before the economy breaks down. I think we have to look at the government budget and how it can be more comfortable with and at the labour market, but the currency cannot be overlooked anymore. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u24	A respectable president. When there is a change in the economy to the tourism industry, which may have been semi-tainted by the fishing road or by the energy - efficient industry, there is a sudden growth in exports over both the support of the economy, and even a rise in what these two pillars create together in exports within a short period of time - well, what can be expected but a dollar gain? Is that not what the dollar must do and should do? I think it was the right thing he did when he gained money because we went from half a million tourists to 2 million tourists and better, and when he was growing stronger, it was to do exactly what his own currency had to do in these circumstances. In fact, there was a flood of currency into the country that the zebra could complete his efforts to keep him off the table in order to keep him safe. Thus, in reality, travel services have created the section of the currency currently located in the Federal Bank. [[The president calls.]] In this respect, I think we have a good example of how important it was to have an independent currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u25	Mr. President. March 1st. was a walking ward in Akureyri closed down. We have been taking this discussion quite regularly at the highest level. Minister of health here at the council, including in unprepared queries at the end of January of last year, where a similar situation had developed regarding the walking department in Akureyri. It has been operating since 1993, caring for the area from the carburettor and the east. What happened in our adopted budget last December was 150 million to the U.S.A., with the emphasis on making that money for the walking departments in Reykjavík and Akureyri, U.S.A. It has now been three months of this year, and it seems that it has been extremely slow these three months to achieve some agreement between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the United States on how to handle this budget. I'm asking the highest. The Minister of Ministers on how these parties agree to use the funding for the projects they were assigned to the council in December when we agreed on budget 2019 and what the situation is at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Because of it. One senator noted that this operation was in operation for decades in Akureyri, using the time, saying that this business has been paid by the Group's financial resources and with support from Akureyritown until now, which is not on the basis of a contract of service to the State. It was not until 2018 that the government's decision to enter this business with special financial contributions was made. Hence, it was surprising that the UN decided to temporarily close the walking services from March 1 because of costs for a job that has been in the population for decades and has been paid by self - resources, and for the first time in history, we have an earmarked money from a government fund to secure our business. Then it was surprising that the work was to be closed as soon as it is clear. This surprised me and disappointed me. Because it's not just a bang. A senator also thinks that if you are expecting an unprepared application period, you are more likely to have someone think to ask you about negotiations about SAU and walking-of-the-system services in Akureyri, I specifically asked about this this morning, and my information is that negotiations are going well and that Iceland's insurance insurance policy is calculated by completing negotiations very soon. Tomorrow we have a meeting on the case, and I hope it will be the meeting that closes the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u27	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. This is exactly what we discussed at the end of January of last year in unsubstantiated requests about government service contracts. In this case, there are some 900 million. K. A year that has gone to SA from a government fund, but it has not been defined as a proper objective of the state of the state with the relevant service contract, i.e. to what the funding should go. We made this comment at the end of January, 14 months ago, so we have only been involved in the case in trying to define it. That applies, as in many places. In the United States, more than 40 alcohol and alcohol abuse companies are active. As the situation is now, there is no one outside the southwest corner. They're all in the capital area. I just reiterate it and thank you for the answers this has shown that this is happening, but we need to define it well, and that applies to many of the health systems, what we're getting for the money that's going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u28	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator on this and precisely the situation today gives us reason to consider how good it is for earmarks to be made on the funds of a certain service employee, whether it might be more convenient to mark the sums for a particular service that needs to be rendered and should be given. As shown in the matter of what. There have been other members who have served and who can perform similar services. The Ministry has consulted alcohol abuse experts to negotiate for e.g. This operation. There is a review within the Ministry, but this does not make it necessary for the General to pay the budget in such a way that these coins are earmarked to the UK rather than anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u29	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for taking time for this important discussion. The situation of international staff in this country has been very up - to - date during this period of living and for good reason. We've heard too many stories that are being violated by very grossly by the rights of employees, who live in a totally unacceptable situation and are in a position to their employer, who is in no way acceptable. To this end, I say: It is very important that we keep this discussion with what I would call the organized crime in this area, which covers only a small part of the labour market. I think it's too often that this discussion is taken so that here, in general, a large percentage of Icelandic companies are violating their employees, which I don't think are relevant at all in this case, and in fact, they think they have something to do with me. These are few but very serious exceptions. And the problem with this is that more often than not, we are dealing with a group of people who are in clean, well - organized crime, whose intent is to violate collective rights, where the intent from the beginning is to make good use of the weak position of those involved. Because that is what defines the position of this group of nature. There are newly arrived people who know very little of their rights in a labour market and have no knowledge of a labour agreement, etc. How can we direct our efforts to help this group prevent these resolve violations of a workforce? This January, a work group report was published in the highest level. A minister who brings up a number of points to consider, e.g. the dilation of chain responsibilities, the conflict of social security, and so on. Of course, there's an act where I would have liked to see more extensive coverage, which is the foundation that must inevitably lie with us all here, that behind many of these most serious offenses are pure and intelligent. Man's affairs are not that people are chained to walls. Here, practical men have a gross lack of knowledge and a weak position in the labour market or in the country where such violations occur, where individuals are unusually exposed to their employer, e.g. For housing, employment permits, etc. It is noteworthy in this discussion all, that although we can see that the environment is different in terms of the perspiration rate e.g. In our neighboring countries, in the North countries, has not yet been judged, so I know, about human halls in this country. The barriers raised in the current legal frame appear to be too high to prove this. However, I personally have no doubt that any of these most serious matters cannot be regarded as clean or proper. That's why I think it's extremely important that we look to the law, especially in these most serious matters, the man's business and the grossest offenses, the crime of criminal rights, and the way we're doing their research. Clearly, organized crime is usually eliminated by the simple process of following the money path; each profit, how much and how it was done. The problem, however, is that we cannot go on indefinitely to narrow the rule around the companies here. I point to the majority of Icelandic companies who are working in a market and who take pride in working by law and by making good use of their employees. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: How will he use himself in this matter? Is the monitoring sufficiently well monitored? Does it have the funds it needs? [[The president calls.]] What can we do to reverse this calamity?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u30	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for taking up this case. It is concluded that we must always be on guard in these matters and that they are regularly taken for political discussion, not only to sharpen the government and the counsellors, but also to make this discussion be heard regularly, that the politics of the country care about these matters wherever humans may stand. It is right to conclude that, at the beginning, in general workforce surveillance, government or government agencies, only a very small part of the labour market sent out by employees and employees, or about 0.9%, will be observed. There's been quite a discussion about renting employees. There is also much to indicate that this year the number of outposts in this country is being reduced. In 2018, a total of 1,107 active workers from 115 foreign service companies were assigned, but in February 2019, 79 foreign workers from 13 foreign companies were active here. So there seems to be a reduction in their numbers. The Senator asks: "What measures can the government take in these matters? Everything okay? I appointed the last autumn group of work that particularly covered these matters, and he would have been appointed only because we thought that these issues would need to be adjusted in general. The group returned to their conclusions in January. and produced a number of suggestions that we have already put into place to form a social security number, one of the largest suggestions in the group. There's the Department of Employment and the highest. Minister, Þórdís Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, already presents a bill that is now being taken into custody. Another suggestion was that it would be implemented to prevent serious and/or target violations against employees by extending the criminal responsibility of the lawyers and officials. The Department of Social Affairs is now in cooperation with the State's work programme for changes in this team, and we hope to introduce it as soon as possible. The third suggestion is even more than that. that governments will be given legal authority to handle violations by means of forcedness measures and government laws. That's even where we're at. working on proposals to comply with this report and to cooperate with the State's work programme. The report also discusses the importance of chain responsibility in public shopping laws. It is a change that could easily be introduced into the council. The Parliament has already discussed a bill where these issues are open and could be followed by them. Then there is one suggestion that workforce violations will be prevented under the criteria of training or volunteers and that there will be a clear basis for what should be allowed under those merits. Since the publication of this report, the Ministry has been in cooperation with the Labour Organization to form a proposal that we hope to introduce as soon as possible. At the same time, it would be helpful to relate that one of the proposals of this group was that it would create wide - scale consultations and cooperation between institutions in the surveillance sector and not only within the Ministry of Social Affairs but also with police, state tax authorities, and other agencies. This group has already been appointed, and his first meeting was held at the Department of Social Affairs on March 20, where it was suggested that the team of colleagues begin their work on regular meetings, in preparation for work, and in determining the cooperation of this cooperation site with the workforce of the workforce. So all these suggestions in the report are already under way, and we follow them very closely. I expect there will be some adjustment in order to follow them and that the bills will appear in the following fall. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned that many employees are in a difficult position toward their superiors because of housing. Then I'd like to mention that two weeks ago we entered a consultation bill that is supposed to be prohibited from mixing employment contracts with rent contracts. I hope we can contribute to the council before deadlines expire. I just want to say that this is an enormously important discussion, important that these matters be followed closely, and I thank the senator for taking it up at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u31	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, before and also the highest. Minister. So it can be said that there are a number of job violations, and unfortunately this is particularly the ones that are growing at one time. As is currently the case, it is mainly the tourism and construction industry that we have heard of the latest loss that supports this hypothesis, at least within the construction industry. We can assume that those who practice such offenses have only the goal of making the arrangements, of getting more for themselves. Surely, it can be said that those who do such things do not know better that they did this in good faith. That is what they now say in the time of information. I heard that a minister proclaimed a bill, but there are some undesirable effects that could have serious consequences. For example, consider how their equipment may be affected by the stumbling blocks of those who engage in social subheadings. People who are involved in social preparation are more often than not those who invite these people to stay in housing that threatens their safety and health. It can hardly be thought to the end if something bad happens when you know at all other things, that their equipment is totally unacceptable. This factor seemed to be just one of the factors that survived in a January committee report. I hope a minister will continue to apply himself in this regard, for if things go wrong, it can't be thought to the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for this need of discussion. In fact, twice I've asked for this exact discussion. Sadly, this has somehow happened, although the minister was well - meaning. Perhaps it is not good for independents to be so well - versed in their own language. I was a member of a staff minister who discussed workforce subsidiary and violations and gave me a very good job, considering that a group of well - assigned professional people and especially those of society's institutions. The report says that the staff focus on the aim of preventing and stopping the workforce, not just social subsidies, but all job violations. This includes the common interests of employees, employment, and society. The aim is that regular actions and actions are efficient and result in the desired results. An explanation of the political will and support of the government is essential to success. I think it's a very clear message. I would have wanted to ask the minister how much preparation is needed to implement the motion of the group. What legal adjustments are necessary, and how long can it be expected that it will change the law and provide tools to cope with the problem? How vital it is that those who monitor the workforce have some tools to handle these issues! That was then ten suggestions offered by the group, and the minister considered them right here. I just have to say at the end, a respectable president, that it was indistinguishable to listen to the employees of the tax and of the police chief and to hear what is being done with cruelty and greed against a foreign labour force that has been the foundation of a labour market for the past year. They are shamed by what they have been like. There is an enormous point that will be taken into consideration, and I trust the minister to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u33	A respectable president. Lately lost, the country has witnessed many tragic examples of bad conduct and attitudes toward foreign workers looking for detailed work here. There have been a number of choices in international construction markets, inexhaustrated for tourism, and in the flourishing restaurants and inns. It seems that some Icelandic employers, not all of them, are found who freely and often take decisive action beyond laws and regulations and display unclean speech. Anything under the cover of law and order has been neglected. The most serious occurrences of the day's light fail, are embarrassing, and do not measure up to laws on animal travel. The union of employee, class unions have left little room for serious failures and obvious cases of crime and corruption, but they alone have limited and limited resources to cope with. The image that appears to be obvious is that governments put their binoculars on to the blind and drive, and at best, the manager has some debate about the need for something to be done, the need for one thing, and then very little and what happens happens happens slowly. We're looking at all types of violations: illegal volunteer work, pay theft, inadequate employment contracts, mishandling people, breaks a period of rest, unsalving equipment and abuse associated with renting houses owned by workers, and it still goes on. All we need to do is recall coverage of the languages of geometric workers in the news show RUS's shortest on RUS. A respectable president. Too much to ask. A minister who resorts to superpowers and makes it a top priority to work out and make sure that we behave in this way like a civilized people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u34	A respectable president. I'm going to start by celebrating the proposals we got at the beginning of the year on social subsidies. Finally, I'd like to say, at last, because it's taken way too long to get to the place we're in today's place. The report is really good, because it is based on conversation and cooperation between the relevant parties, the labour market members, employees, and the state. True, in recent years some have allowed themselves to treat workers with shame. These are people who, to a large extent, work in the growing sectors under the interest of the past few years, the tourism and the construction industry in particular. As we look at the commentary programs mentioned in these talks, it is ironic that the people who build all these magnificent buildings themselves have to live in some poor, isolated, and leaked industrial houses somewhere during the years when they build up here, the rest of us. This one needs to go back, and it's good to hear the Minister's on the move. I may mention the labor movement specifically because it filled up with wastes that were required by the government for far too long. The condition of the labor movement is not surprising. In recent years, it has been a great success in fighting for the rights of employees, observing where people are violated, where social subs and employment halls may take place where government funds and sources lack. Now, a formal government, government, and workforce group has been established, which the Minister here said in a speech that had been meeting for the first time last week, so hopefully, Mr. President, we've got these issues cut off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u35	President. I agree with the last speaker. He had a great speech. I'm going to be a little more practitioner in approach but thank you for the discussion and also rejoice that this work has started. The team of co-workers, appointed by the Department of Social Substitution and Crime at a labour market, returned their report at the beginning of the year. The Commission then invited a minister along with the head of the task force to attend a meeting of the Committee and explain the results and proposals of the report. At a meeting of the welfare committee, the Minister's will was to implement the proposals of the Task Force as soon as possible and was spoken of as being expected to be finished at the spring council of 2020. I agree with the Minister that it is very important to bring these proposals to action as soon as possible. So I would like to encourage a minister to publish a timed schedule for this work so that we on a welfare committee can give him a good, effective hold on to this class. Also, I encourage him to run a budget plan because I find it particularly difficult to see that on a new financial agenda it is assumed that there are some of the costs involved. If it's shown somewhere, at least I'd appreciate it if it's the best. A minister could tell me where it is. One of the proposals of the work group involved in monitoring is that governments which have authority to the labour market, i.e. The police, the head of state tax, the workstay and the workforce make a formal agreement for organized cooperation against job violations. Formal will be regular consultations and cooperation between this cooperation site and local labour market partners, analyses, and the joint workforce. It's a very important part of the suggestions. The financial program says, with the permission of a president: ▪ M.a. has been law-enforcemented by the labour oce as well as the monitoring of staff and staff organisations in order to prevent social substitution of the labour market in close cooperation with the labour market partners and other governments. I can't see in any way that the cost of this surveillance is expected in a controlled financial programme. It would be good to hear from a minister how this operation will be conducted. I can only see that in a new financial program, taking into account economic growth, inflation, and pay development, a compromise on employment and unemployment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Besides, I can't see any money for the governor. [[The president calls.]] So it would be good to have an explanation for this. Will these suggestions be financed, and where can I see them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for this need for discussion and the highest. Minister for being with us and sharing in it with us today. I am one of the people sitting in front of the TV set when the news show Gook appeared to us in the winter. I have to say, even though you knew that the situation was black and that it was really somebody who came here to work and participate in construction in our community, I never expected the situation to be so black. I'd like to thank all the members of the council who've spoken before and kept my position down slowly and quietly, for it is of vital importance that we control the matter firmly. It is, in fact, sad that it is necessary to come up with a news story, and so forth, to press it properly. Lawgiver. In this case, as with so many times before, we see the need for research, the pressures, and the information flows that we get through it. But I don't feel that there has been any discussion of what relics we should exercise in the past, as we have repeatedly had to face up to it, will be brought to light. Is it not time for us to take real action and prevent even the same people from being repeatedly merely by various means and determined offenses? Thank you so much for this discussion, and how much I appreciate it. Minister to act. I have no doubt that he will take the matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, for bringing attention to this matter and to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, Daðason Daledsson, for his input. In the fall of autumn, the highest standards were made. A societal minister of a working group who was assigned to offer proposals for action on the social subsidiary of a domestic labour market and submitted proposals by the end of January. The chairman of the group, Jón Sigurðsson, arranged for a welfare committee at the end of February, along with the Department of Social Affairs to introduce the work committee. It was Jón's case that it was a good job, but there were a total of 16 people in the group. The conclusion was consistent; certainly, we would need to make some legal adjustments, but there could also be a sharper degree of action and a better understanding of the administration. The systems need to talk. That's important. There seems to be information barriers between the institutions in these issues where difficulty and break up occurs. A co-ordinated position is needed for the head of the local tax and the labour market bodies, and a shorter distributional signal needs to be performed. It was also noted that the procedure would take too long. It is not acceptable when people are in a bad position in the workplace and are more sensitive to fraud. These are often people who have a weak social background, people who find it difficult to stand up and know their bad rights. Therefore, it is very important to shorten the duration of treatment and to facilitate monitoring. It is vital that the workforce be met regularly by the government and the personnel of the labour market, as the proposals offered. It's all about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u38	Mr. President. I want to thank you first. a voter for opening this discussion today. After listening to those who spoke in the preceding discussion, I sense it so that the discussion is mostly about the salary and circumstances of those who work mostly with local companies through employees. I think it's important to keep it in the discussion and keep it safe. But to some extent, it is more extensive than that, for it is not just the employees who have provided workers in the way we know them. And it's important to make sure that employees and workers' roommates don't have to be the same thing. There are excellent employees employed here who place great emphasis on the implementation of all regulations and the well - being of their employees. But then, as we know, black sheep are in between. But the aspect I wanted to point out in addition to my employees'rents is what they call foreign service companies. We regularly hear in the media that foreign service companies have been working especially for some of these large and large contractors in larger projects, where it seems to be a matter of each employee being here within 183 days of each 12-month period, and thus the release of certain tax laws is reversed at home. I think we have to look into it in this context. Of course, the challenge is that equipment is pre-communicative, and then social subsidies are not tolerated. We need to consider this in the context of the fact that employees and what are called foreign service companies overlap to a large extent in their service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to start like others, thank you for this important discussion. Actually, I think there's also reason to remind you that most companies on the market just want to do good and be good. It is to be taken into account by our surveillance industry and the monitoring of our employment. In this way, our institutions know that I am the primary source of guidance for those working outside the market, how they can best care for their factors. Of course, there are always some harts who have to push a little bit after, and then there is a small group of companies who simply, as mentioned earlier by the prime minister of this case, intend to break the law and break people to make more money. Of course, it is disgusting and must be taken firmly. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the actions he has already taken in the legal environment and, on the other hand, by order of a staff to review the factors that need to be addressed. Then it is important that these partners cooperate, and as the group answered, there must be a formal agreement and the organization of those in charge. It's double work on the part of the state and other institutions that are involved, as well as on their own, in that one day the workforce comes and takes out the security, and then the governor of the next day comes to consider something else, and then the union comes to ask for staff. It must be much better, both for companies of themselves and for these organisations, to be in cooperation so that they can come and explore all of these factors. So we have been told to make up representatives from the governor when they attend a meeting with us on the Economic and Business Committee that these black sheep are, of course, a little known. Surely that is true of us. We must be able to take action aimed at the very fact that this person can simply be stopped. [[The president calls.]] I hope that bill on social security travel and the bills to the highest degree. A minister mentioned earlier addressed such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u40	Mr. President. Thank you for this discussion, which is absolutely needed. On January 30, last year, the highest took place. Social and child-friendly minister contributes to a special discussion of social subsidies and fraud of a labour market held by my initiative. I asked the highest. A minister then what measures were planned on the part of the government, first to counteract the violation of the activities in this country, secondly to ensure the function and natural competitiveness of companies who respect collective agreements and laws and third, in order to improve labour control and use laws and agreements for violations of laws and agreements, and to follow them. A healthy labour market is the foundation of good communities, and the fraud must be stopped here. In particular, the failure activity focuses on those who are the most vulnerable, young people, and foreign workers in the construction and tourism industry. There is indeed a need for significant action. Their need was over a year ago, as it was now. Unfortunately, over a year and a half since our last discussion in this room, little has changed. It takes man, it takes a will to root out the lip, and it takes penalties to bite the cheaters. Police, government tax managers, unions, and professional drivers all have to work together, for a healthy labour market is the benefit of all of us, and that is human kindness and respect as well. The labour market, which does not practice Icelandic law, which cheats employees and allows greed to operate, above all, has no business in the Icelandic labour market, and we need to make sure that their work is not allowed to survive in this country. That's no good for mittens. I want to, Mr. President, encourage the highest. Minister to help uproot these lesions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u41	Mr. President. Social subs and activities at work have been a major problem in the past few years, to our well - being community. Left greens have brought up the chain of responsibilities and have stressed that job violations, social subsidies, and even human trafficking can be prevented. It is, therefore, a joy to see that a minister is started working on behalf of the workforce and other public officials who come in one way or another. One of the important factors to fight is the social security number, and now it has a bill designed to stop it. So it was even. Consider the work group involved in the minimum pay of official protection where rights are guaranteed by law and that a legal framework on the working environment, training, and volunteers has been heavily violated and misused. Especially has this affected young and foreign adults in the workplace. I believe that proposals for a formal team of colleagues are very important and must have a general view of where the work market is sensitive to crime and that there is a future policy where governments can implement the proposed will to ensure a healthy and safe labour market. But we've done a lot of things that are very improved, such as chain commitments to employees' rent, high-day fines, and the labour agency's warrant to allow union reviews on contracts. Of course, the violation of labor markets, the people with high economic interest in our society, and the labor movement has done a lot of good. [[The president calls.]] I think it is very important that this cooperation becomes real between labor movements, public contacts in preventing job breakdowns. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u42	A respectable president. In Iceland, modern slavery has continued for years. Following revelations in the stratosphere of a labour market violation, the current social and child - care minister appointed a team to report solutions to the national problem. The report entitled The Report of the Association Group of Social Affairs and Children's Ministers on Social Substitution and Crime in a labour market has been very much discussed in the conference in this need for this discussion. The most effective task of the group's proposals is to implement a social security number in an efficient way. It was a pleasure to read yesterday to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice, Professional Affairs, and Neo-creation has put in place a administrative bill now serving at the Adolescence Board's Commission. Finally, at last, they'll finally be taken seriously and stuck on a social security number in Iceland. It is my duty to celebrate, and I am so excited to see it become a law. Like what? paritaprevir In many cases, the prison of Haraldsdóttir's daughter appears to be a determined offense in the companies that have broken down their workers. So it is important, in addition to taking on all the teams that appear in the report of the counsel group appointed by the minister, that high fines can be used, and even the final tenures will be guilty. Similarly, employers need to have their own contract with the landlords, not to be thrown out on the roof if their employee's rent tells them as well. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I have to come in to the highest level. Of course, a minister has the names of a child - care minister, so he would like to remind you that many of the individuals who have been offended have children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the United States, children live in poverty, so it is important to speed up this situation and that all the suggestions made by the team of colleagues... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u43	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir This discussion was discussed by the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson son of Wazowski. It is a matter that usually involves the greed and immorality of a particular person, which, fortunately, is not everyone, but there are always damaged apples between those who use cheap labors and who prey on it without flashing. It says a lot about the legislatator that we can talk about this year after year, yet there seems to be little fog in the right direction. They are people who are paid very little, and they don't even know their rights because they don't speak our language and they are not presented their rights in their own language. The worst part of it all is when people are in a position where they have been cleaned out and they can't even get back to their homes, they don't have to pay the fare home, because they pay their heavenly rent as we have seen. It sucks to know that there are often numbers of people in one room. Other than that, in such cases, everything seems hopeless. People do not even have adequate access to a house, and they are then building luxury hotels and luxury apartments. But the most serious thing to me is the manal and slave labor. I feel the scariest thing in all that we have allowed prostitution and human halls to exist between the Allied Committee and the Federal Office. It's been going on for a long time, and we didn't know that there's a place to go for sex and prostitution at that club. [[The president calls.]] This sucks, and it says something about us that this is happening right in front of us, and we have no idea. [[The president calls.]] I ask myself, " Do we need the media to inform us about what was happening next to us? ' [[The president calls.]] It's really weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u45	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a very careful discussion on this important subject. The highest report. A minister made many things work for very good, but when reading it, I have to say that I do not consider much new to be there since I first came to this language six years ago. This is a problem that has been discussed for a very long time, and the solutions we would like to look at are always the same, the law and the rules need to be harded, and the rules need to be firm. We must bear in mind that we are dealing with organized offenses. Although there is always a need to focus on areas in which to sharpen the possibility of woodcutting, sharpening penalties, etc., the problem is, not law, but control. The problem is that we have members who are violating existing legislation and I would make it clear. That's why I called it a deliberate violation, an organized offense. It will be cut off only with, I would say, literal persecution under supervision. That's what I miss a little from a staff report. Minister, I don't think the surveillance factor's being handled much again. It has not been shown in this discussion or in the case of a minister whether there is sufficient control of matters and sufficient funds to ensure that the monitoring necessary to eliminate these issues is maintained. That is where our problem eventually lies. The answer is not a complex rule against law-enforcement companies but to eradicate the activities of those enterprises which do not go to current legislation. We have laws available, and I especially want to remind you about the manal languages that have been discussed that sources in current laws, such as 253.g. The penalties to misuse the lack of knowledge or the weakness of a person's position for practical purposes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u46	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. She's really good. I agree with those who have pointed out here that the largest part of the company wants to do well. That's the small percentage, the black sheep, that we need to reach. I also agree that in most cases it involves organized violations. Most important, at work that has been done, everyone at the table has been successful. All the people who have had to get to the table over the years have come to this point and agree on the basic outline of how we can expand and expand our surveillance of these black sheep and prevent this. It's not just unions, it's not just agencies like there's a labour agency, it's also the head of state tax, the police and other people who have to come into business. Some questions have been asked if there's any increase in money involved. All of these institutions have enormous body capacity and have a large number of employees, such as. A labour agency. By putting this on a political agenda, you can set priorities for increasing your stroke power in there. It also makes it possible that working together can produce remarkable results in a follow-up, as the report points out. As noted in a recent case, some agencies do not have the authority or the prowess to handle certain parties, so they need assistance from others. Then it is accepted into this field of cooperation, which is the basis for reaching out for gross violations. I have high hopes for it, and I reiterate that this group has already met, he did it last week, and is now developing visions and rules of how he's going to work, because together we can work on this lesion. [[The president calls.]] No one can, whether it's the one standing here or the other. A senator who began this discussion. [[The president calls.]] He knows her well six years back in time, and he knows that in unity we will be able to make it stop by the strokes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we are, me, what. A senator and others, agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u47	A respectable president. We stay in a similar area. It's about chain responsibility. Thank you very much. A minister for being here with us, while a report by a group of his fellow workers, of social substitution and work practices, was published in January. and discussed the chain of commitments and other activities involved in the workforce. It's a good report, and it's good. The government may be aware that these factors have been serious infringement for many years and have been slow and slow to crack into known holes and bites of employees in the labour markets, salary workers, and commercial worlds. In my last year, the General Assembly approved a significant improvement in the laws on the posting of employees and the duties of foreign service employers since 2007. The law now covers the workers of foreign service companies who have a national work programme in the country, although the companies don't have a work station here or they've just made contracts with local user companies. The commitment is still very limited by professions and works by which employees of the employee's work are obliged to enter the duties of their employees. If it is known that employees have not been paid their due, the demands can be directed to the company that hired them. The case of the Romanian laborers, mentioned earlier, was such a case in which forced labor in the capital area was suspected to have been involved, and the chain responsibility could be tested. The European Union of Iceland, Mr. President, has placed a high priority on the fact that a chain of responsibility will become a common rule in the Icelandic labour market. However, the activities of the industry have been busy, believing that specific measures should be taken in which the problems were present in the labour market. The general chain of responsibility would be too expensive and too extensive. We are now discussing the fact that chain responsibilities will be passed on to public purchase laws. Mr. President. We experience repeated instances in the economy, in the country, and in the nation. So I ask the highest. Minister of Three Questions: Will Ministers consider changing the law with the aim of further strengthening corporate chain responsibilities and reaching out to all foreign workers in their services, not just to the companies working in the mobilization business? Does a minister believe that chain responsibility should be legal in all areas of work? Does a minister consider it a reason to tighten the law on professional activities in order to prevent personal and business violations?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. The law that approved the last summer approved of the chain of responsibility. The bill that turned into law stated that these two factors should be included in the first place, such as the driving. A senator mentioned, and then we were to keep a very regular check on how this will please him. The General Assembly, or government, was to intervene and make adjustments and expand this over the entire labour market. This would then be followed by experience on chain responsibility for these aspects of employment. Information from the Labour Department has not yet called for chain responsibilities. However, it should be kept in mind that there is a private legal arrangement without the help of a labour oce. When asked whether the minister intends to promote laws with the aim of further strengthening the chain responsibility of an enterprise, the answer is: Yes, the minister in general is committed to further strengthening the chain of enterprise. After extensive consultation, we agreed on a law here at a council. You're absolutely right. A senator's differing opinions between the Interactive Association and the Organization of Employment, but the results here at the council were to enforce the proposal, however, and also after treatment. The welfare committee. I think, in view of that, we should try the chain of responsibility. We're working it out, watching it, and we're ready to step in if you think it needs to be extended. The Ministry's policy is to work by the bill adopted at the base it had completed. However, it is quite clear that this is one of the factors discussed in the January issue of this magazine. They discussed chain responsibilities, including those discussed. In what ways would it have to be more defined, strengthened, and agreed on certain points? It also showed that despite all the people who came to work for the report, they agreed on all the largest main lines, the main proposals, this work was addressed to the UN to want the chain of commitment to be placed over the entire labour market. Regarding the concept, they arose from the employment community that specific measures should be taken in which the problems were present in the labour market. The general chain responsibility, which would require costly monitoring, would be too extensive. These are not new viewpoints. They're still there. There are still differing views on this subject. We're watching this. We're watching this. A bill is not in preparation, but we carefully monitor it, and we are ready to respond and offer a bill at a certain point if it is appreciated. Hv. A senator asks if there is any reason to increase the law on employment in order to prevent the offense between individuals and companies. That's exactly what I've said in this team of working men, who are intending to bring in certain penalties, and I've said that we're following them. It is extremely important to be closely followed, and we will introduce action as soon as possible. However, it is important to add, because we were in this discussion earlier, that I think it is important that, while we are continuing to do these suggestions, it is important that we do so - wide controversies were achieved through their main points - we try to maintain that solidarity as far as possible on the larger lines of wood and other information. Of course, it takes time to do so, and I know we want to get this done as soon as possible. I think we have a lot of strength in maintaining our solidarity because we want to ensure that we cooperate. I hope to some extent this answered questions why. Senator. If not, I'll be back in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I understood his answers so that at this point he was not prepared to use himself to further strengthen the law of law with the goal of chain responsibility in all areas of work. V.E.G. A minister will correct me if I'm wrong, if I've felt this in a different way than he meant. The earlier discussion showed that the government, the police, the government, the tax manager, the workforce, and the labour agency have already begun a conversation about making contracts or some cooperation and response to crime, there has been a lack of a little effort to resolve matters. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister when he will see the end of that job and when we will see that this work takes shape. I wondered, " Is it possible for a minister to predict how to further prevent serious or committed offenses against employees by extending the criminal responsibility of law enforcement and insurgents? ' Do we not have to revise the law with all that work together?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u50	A respectable president. The lead that this bill was submitted at its time, in regard to the chain of responsibilities, was a very extensive meeting of all employees in the labour market. The results of this discussion had to be made in this way, and there was a big political debate in this chamber, and I think I know about it as well. The welfare committee. The results of all the discussion and work here at the council had to include only a certain part of the labour market at first, so we have been working with that conclusion. We follow up on the job market and how the chain responsibility directives prove to be in these specific jobs. Then the plan is to intervene if it is thought to be necessary. So we are, in fact, working entirely with the conclusions that were made at the time. I reiterate that according to professional information, the chain of responsibility has not yet been tested, not even in these sectors. But if it is found that it is important to intervene in a number of sectors before we test these developed professions, the Minister or the Ministry will not intervene in this and provide the necessary changes. For the timelines for the group's work, this meeting area for the already started workforce surveillance, he found it last week. The task now is for him to set up specific procedures and procedures, how to come in together with increasing force. But in terms of the timeline of all these proposed proposals, as they were discussed in collective agreements, in which way this will be introduced, there is a conversation between the government and the labour market parties. [[The president calls.]] But I've stressed that it's happening as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u51	President. Over a year ago, I gave a synopsis for the liberty of a cab market suggesting that a secretary of transportation be assigned to eliminate the maximum number of jobs to a cab driver, reduce the charge for their services, and open the market for higher competition. The matter came up in an Environmental and Transport Committee, most notably because of the results of a work group reevaluated in a total network of routine cab cars based on ESA opinion, which came to the conclusion of the rationalization of the Icelandic taxation laws, which about a number of similars to their Icelandic, included violations of EEA rights, and taking into consideration the initiative of ESA's concept of the Icelandic taxation and potential barriers to access there. What the Agency considered most was whether access inhibitions were due to Icelandic automobile legislation on the number of employment restrictions in certain areas as well as the requirement for national legislation on the issue. The staff returned results to the minister in April. It stated that the group felt that it would be right to eliminate the number of demand for a cab driver's income and, in addition, that the death from a legal issue would be required. The highest reaction. Ministers when the proposals were presented were to announce that preparation would be made for a new law on rental cars for contributions at the Fall Summit at Council 2019, and then with wide consultation with stakeholders. In view of what's been said, it takes a lot of legal adjustments to carry out the suggestions of the staff, I ask the highest. Ministers on the position on that job, as well as on the way to see if it can be expected, on optimism, possibly, that the case will come from the government's consultations within spring to be ready as soon as the next autumn. Furthermore, I'd like to know from the highest level. Ministers to whether this work is done in the slightest possible changes to the ESA's criticism of the current Icelandic cab market or if the case is going to be done even more in terms of freedom. Finally, I would like to focus on the role of cabs in our public transportation system. A cab driver's license to drive a taxi is a service article that is considered to be public transportation. The government's policy on public transport is now under way. The words were open to the ensuing headlines until March 7, if I'm correct. These policies do not give a single description of taxis in general, cab cars driving. In view of this, my second question is to the highest. The transport minister, whether the expectation of a taxi market reform was important when it is being done on public transportation policies or if these issues are considered to be at the highest level. Minister of all unauthorized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for this request for a cab market reform. It is true that the Ministry has, since the work group report on the global re-examination of the Icelandic rental project, working to shape new legislation in this field. It was published plans for the legal process of government consultation during the last summer, and there were comments that have been prepared since, to the person who received it. We've also observed that in all the North countries people have been changing the legislation, even though they've already turned it into the direction that Norway and Iceland are doing today. We've watched these changes. Special attention has been given to the Norwegian transport authorities, who are working toward comparable changes in national legislation, as well as to the current work being carried out in the Ministry in connection with public transportation. I'll get in on it a little later. The Ministry's project program for new driving laws suggests that a bill will be introduced to the government's consultations before the summer, or early summers, in the months ahead, with the possibility that its production may occur at the council by the end of November this year. The post-hoc changes take into account the results of the work group, while we look at the changes made on this system in the North countries. Regarding the question of whether a cab market reform is linked to public transport policy or whether these issues are not connected, it is clear to me that they are linked. It has been observed in both the introduction and the discussion of public transport that in the development of the public transport system, there may be areas where it is necessary for road transport policy and national public transport policies to take into account one another. It is essential that passenger transport legislation should be made aware that in situations where regular public transport is not provided, e.g. because there is a small amount of space to fill the gap by ensuring access to cabs. It has also been noted whether the shared economy will handle this, i.e. cars or orders service where taxis could do that service and just where few and large public cars are inexorable and would not produce the desired results, they simply are not relevant. So the answer is yes, it matters, and the situation is very connected, the services of cabs and public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer. I'm saying it's important that there's a taxi driver's law. It is absolutely essential that we open up this drive more in the direction of freedom and look at what is happening in cities around us, where increasing competition has led to lower prices and improved service for consumers. I really want us to follow that material at the same time, and of course we need to keep a passenger safe. I think I can do okay together. I also want to reiterate what was said in reply to the highest. Minister, that taxis are, of course, part of a public transport system. So it is in all urban communities and sharing cars and the development on this market will solve some of the problems we watch in urban communities today. [[The president calls.]] So I'm the highest. Minister remains in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u54	President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that this is the case. I had in the second round the mind to curious about, a bit about what I asked first, whether it was merely attending remarks to a minimum, or whether the plan was to look beyond. I'm glad to hear that it's the idea, and they're looking at the transportation, sharing cars, ordering services, and stuff like that. I am convinced that this is extremely important, certainly depending on the circumstances. So that the taxis can do this in the public transportation system, like what? paritaprevir However, the case of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who is extremely important, simply needs to be available to modern homes and to modern society and at a controlled price. It is a natural source of healthy competition, such as elsewhere. In healthy competition, the alternative is to include a safety policy, and competition is not particularly healthy. At the end, I'd like to mention that there is a close link between public transport in general and environmental matters. We face circumstances in the countries around us, such as the highest. Minister entered, and there are other countries besides Norway to review their system improvements, probably with regard to innovation and the development that is developing, especially in the way the people in general live. One thing that comes up is the idea of a so-called green cab permit, i.e. This is encouraged in a practical way to reduce the handling of rental cars. I wondered if the context is all something that is being examined. It would be a shame to overlook this extreme situation, and this is what countries, especially in central Europe, are looking much into these days. - Other than that, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u55	Mr. President. I want to agree in my final statement that it is important that we handle some of these possibilities in our legislation. Just as we have the traffic laws on self-employing cars, even if they are not there, but we realize that they're going to come, we also have cab legislation to watch the trends that could result in ordering services, sharing cars, and such, as part of our public transportation system. I hope it's all going to be clear there. Again, we have an overall review from a group of professionals and other members, of course, the foundation of the legislature. But we also look at the changes that other nations are making in order to cope with the unexpected developments in the future. And then for the green cabs, the head of the advance party can be just happy with the tip. It would be beautiful if all the cars were to turn green, not just color, but also with climate issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u56	Mr. President. This is a inquiry I made last month. In the meantime, I've heard the highest. A minister has a word with members of the council about this decision by his fellow minister in unsubstantiated inquiries, and he claims to be concerned about the position of the minister in this matter. Still, it is good to have clear answers here on two very important questions that I don't think have been adequately discussed or answered in the United States Economic Institutes Report. Which is whether a minister would consider the decision of a marine economist and agricultural minister to allow continued whaling properly in the position of tourism and whales to be attractive to tourists, which tens of thousands together go to a whale inspection throughout the country. And secondly, whether a secretary thinks this decision can affect Iceland's image beyond that, including the image of Icelandic tourism and Icelandic products. The above - mentioned report of the Institute of Economics, which the Minister of the Seas seems to have laid the basis for their decision, does not provide satisfying answers to these questions, since there was no consultation with a whale inspection company or company in the development of a travel service. The traveling agency also severely criticized the minister's decisions and said that they had greater interests for memory, which is not overly pronounced because of the fact that whale - hunt exports, except in 1.3 billion dollars, which is less than the amount of money that the tourist service makes us pay daily. Regarding the reputation of whaling in the world, it can be said that a long-term meat trade is banned according to the CITS Convention on environmental animal products at risk of extinction. In general, ivory trades with long - term meat are viewed in a world similar to those of ivory. It may be wrong for the world there, but the question is, Is it worth the risk of leading the world to the whole truth of the need to kill the few who want to buy and even fewer food than many people look and admire?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson's inquiry, which is about something important, not undisputed. I especially welcome this opportunity to discuss the subject from the perspective of tourism. In the beginning, I think it's right to say, for the sake of the context, that I believe the decision to allow continued fishing for long periods of time to fail for the next five years natural in view of the scientific advice it is based on, advice from the Marine Research Institute. The whale fishing of the Icelanders is based on the principle of sustainable use of marine resources, and Iceland's centres are only derived from strains in good condition. The decisions on whaling are based on scientific advice. They are under strict supervision and are in accordance with international law. Furthermore, in general, I believe that it is not right to limit people's professional rights when we have science behind us. At least more is needed. Whales are indeed an important attraction for tourists in this country, but it has not been shown that the hunting of the Icelanders has a negative effect on the arrival of tourists to this country or the demand for a whale inspection. On the contrary, the number of tourists has increased dramatically over the past decade or so, on average, more than 20% between 2010, far above global average growth. Looking further, in the late 1980's, the number of tourists also increased when whaling was used for scientific purposes. The number of whale - watch models has increased over the years and has increased the number of tourists taking a whale inspection. According to the whale research organization, Icewhale, over 345,000 passengers went to a whale inspection in 2018, but compared them to 115,500 in 2010. Of course, as far as Iceland's image is concerned, it is marked by countless factors, both natural and cultural. There is no complete evidence that whale fishing has adversely affected Iceland's image as its destination or demand for Icelandic products. According to a survey conducted in February. in the public of our main markets in Europe and North America, some 70% of respondents said they have a positive attitude toward Iceland as their destination and about the products, services and brands of Icelandic origin. This is similar to our competitive country. This number has increased from year to year. Today's tourism situation is indeed fragile, slowing down the growth of tourists, with many factors involved. Among other things, there is the high order of the Icelandic crown, which makes Iceland an expensive destination, apart from other factors that in general make Iceland an expensive country. A problem with flying, which reduces aviation of aviators to the country as well as it is thought that coverage of persistent debates will certainly have its effect, at least to a shorter time. While hunting by the Icelanders may have and no doubt have a negative influence on someone's attitude toward the country - it is obvious, of course, that it is, and so you may even feel it. It is easy to say that this is a major reason for this short - term decline. I'd also like to say that the long - term prospects for tourism are good, including As more and more people are on the move around the world, research shows that the concept of Iceland as its destination is very strong. Some special studies and studies have been conducted on the effects of whale fishing on Iceland's image and its tourism and economic impacts on the whale inspection over the years, which have been stopular and are now out - of - date. It would be helpful to repeat such tests and improve analysis in order to have the clearest overall picture. I also feel that it is preferable to have more consultation with the article on this subject for the future. While data cannot be seen from the fact that Iceland's whaling has had a worse effect on its image or its tourism so far, it is certainly better to be alert to the development of the situation and generally benefit from having an analysis in front of them and to be fully and regularly understood to become aware of the impact, the overall picture. It may affect further discussions and decision making for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u58	Mr. President. This is a very important inquiry regarding the effects of whale fishing. Like a snooze. A senator noted that there was no consultation with a whale inspection company or company for travel services in the development of the controversial report of the Institute of Economics, which a minister of the sea for his decision. This has been strongly objected by the Association of travel services, and it can also be a harsh conclusion to Iceland's WHAC since March 15th, where governments are challenged to cancel the Council of the Marine Exploitor's Regulation on allowing whaling. The organization also reiterates its demand for real interests, with full attention to the interests of whale inspection, tourism, and other exports before further whaling takes place in Iceland. Under this, I hope to the highest. Similarly, a minister resorts to it, not only for environmental protection and animal protection purposes, but also for the sector under its department, and for no further setbacks or uncertainty. Mr. President. We need to revise for Iceland's real policy in whales, not on account of one person, but on the basis of the environmental and animal protection issues and the grounds of one of our basic services. Most of all, we should stop hunting whales right away in 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u59	V.E.G. President. In 2006 the manager of a whale inspection in Iceland said that a whaling that was then imminent would kill a whale's inspection in Iceland before a sight could be seen. But evolution is something else. In 2018, much more were observed in whales than in the years quoted, i.e. in 2006. I must also say that comparing ivory with long - tried products would naturally be some lapsus because the circumstances of these animals have nothing in common. But because of him. A senator who asked this inquiry that I am grateful for spoke of that very few ate this meat I speak for those who cannot eat this meat because it is not on the market in Iceland. This is very sad because it is a very good product and good medicine. I advertise here by saying that while hunting a whale in Iceland, i.e. Long-lasting, if he's sold at a public market in Iceland, we'll be able to access this delicacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u60	V.E.G. President. I was just going to come up and let my light shine in this matter. To me, it's very simple. We have a species of fish in the ocean that are whales and... [[The point is, it's not fish.]] [[For example: They are mammals.]] [[Foreground on: No. Wet animals. Big difference.]] All right, my speech session is about to go on. A marine research agency has issued advice for a minister on whaling. The minister has published that he will follow the advice of the Agency and then be up to those who do or run a business if they want to do something about it and if it pays off. I strongly recommend this because I like long - term meat and other meats very good food and they are missing in Icelandic markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u61	The President agrees. A senator says that everyone who's ever tailed is a fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u62	A respectable president. I'm clearly part of the luxury group, since last night I was at a bar mitzvah, and there was an invitation for whale meat. Actually, I thought it was a bullcarpaccio, but it was probably a whale and tasted quite well. A respectable president. I thank you for this inquiry and discussion that obviously is needed. I agree that the year is 2019, and we are not to hunt endangered animals. We should always listen to scientists and consider establishing around the country. If this person's conclusion is that it's okay to hunt or use some species, I don't think we should listen to little interest groups out in the world that are fighting for something. What's next? What about our horse? There's a lot of people who come to the country to watch horse shows and enjoy the Icelandic horse. At the same time, it is also eaten. What about our lambs? How about a Greenland seal hunt? A respectable president. I think there is good reason why we protect our independence from making decisions as to how we use our natural resources, whether they are alive or not. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if it's okay to hunt whales according to scientific data, we should, and that is not for one particular party or company, but for the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u63	A respectable president. An interesting discussion on whether to watch or hunt has been made here. To me, I think it might be okay together. We know that there is plenty of whale, that's how I feel at least. We can see everywhere where we reach the whale stocks are moving closer to the country, they come more on the foam, etc. I would also like to remind you that whales eat what has a tail, which is called a fish, and competes with us for using that resource. I believe it may go well together, but certainly we must be careful about moderation and not be catching a whale where it's showing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u64	President. Somehow, the debate over this fine inquiry developed in a discussion about the individual councilmen's taste on meat products. It seemed a little strange to me. I'm sure there are certain meat products that we don't normally eat that taste good. I've also eaten a loe that tastes pretty good, but we don't hunt it. Some people think that dogs are an excellent food, but we are not taking sides on the right to use these species. I thank you for the leader and the highest. Minister for the answer. This is close to a matter we get, no matter what we think, that we have to take it seriously and discuss it. Is it a force for travel, and what are they? Do we have to take sides in this regard when we decide whether to allow hunting to happen? That's what it's all about. It's not about man's taste in meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u65	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of answers and members of Parliament for excellent discussions that have developed in familiar and unexpected directions. In this regard, emotional practices have been a bit predominant, and humans have not given sufficient attention to such matters as ecology and nature protection, as well as to direct interests. The biggest stake in this case is whale research companies. You can't come up in a chair and pretend that a whale watch company doesn't have anything to say or that you don't know, you're just wrong. We must simply listen to that company, and we must listen to the transport organization because it is accidentally the nation's largest means of employment. There are, in fact, other occupations involved. It is obvious that Iceland's whales have been marketed in the United States with amazing cleaning. America looks whaling up to groups the same as a store with ivory. They may be mistaken. But this is how the world sees it in general. In fact, when whales are well - meaning mammals and not fish, they are animals all over the world that are not localized. They are not bound to Icelandic waters but to go around the world, which should be viewed as a whole. This needs to be viewed by the three pillars of sustainable development, not by whether there are enough whales here, which are, in fact, controversial and controversial, and should be considered as to whether there are national interests in catching whales. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u66	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion. I can say with what. paritaprevir Thorsson Thorsson's idea of this matter is often driven by emotion on both sides, that meat is good or not, and no one should tell us what to do and this is a sovereign nation to make their own decisions, but it is also sometimes on the other side, and some would expect that the largest stake in this matter would be the whales themselves. I'd like to add it at the end that it cannot be denied that hunting affects the image of the country. Indeed, whale fishing is a controversial matter in a worldwide community. Our friends have criticized them. Various environmental groups oppose them, and public opinion in the world has not generally been such an issue. It has sometimes been a challenge to protect less-time business interests, especially in exporting Icelandic seafood products, but so far it is not thought that significant damage to Iceland's interests has been involved. Governments have always responded to criticism through effective information and have referred to scientific evidence and application of international law. In addition, the experiences of the past few decades have shown that the industry, whaling, and whale examinations do not rule out each other at all and that they can live side by side with a good partner. Thus, there has also been experience in other countries where whale watch and whaling thrives side by side. To minimise the potential for conflict between whale watch and whale fishing here on land, certain areas of protection have been distributed for whale inspection. For instance, whale fishing has been banned in part of the Fax Gulf, the Islanders, and the Skull Bay since November 2017. I believe that these two professions, whaling and whale inspections can work together by consultation. However, like most people, it is better to base on hard research and information so that we have facts in our hands and less emotions to consider. I reiterate in view that I am interested in going to such diagnostic work in consultation with the article, for it is important to be alert to the development of the matter and be aware of the overall picture in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u67	A respectable president. I present a request to the minister of travel, industry and innovation of social security. Unfortunately, it has become the familiar interest of the case, as it may be, but the social security number is called when a company that sees in bankruptcy transfers its property to a new social security number, leaving the company's debt on the old social security number. Thus, the owner of the company can continue business without paying up his debt, as the crew can only assume the property listed on the old social security number. In a survey of business students at the University of Reykjavík some years ago among the directors of 600 Icelandic companies, it was found that more than 73% of Icelandic companies had lost money on social security, and one third of them had lost money on social security methods more than six times. Much more of the participants said that legislation was needed to stop the social security. This is a social ill, a respectable president, who has spent years and years in the discussion, appears over and over again. Industrial organizations have been harsh in their criticism of social security, and in 2004 they went to a special campaign against social security. It has been ten years since four members of the Parliament gave a bill at the General Assembly, for example. A report by the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Department from January 2000. For social subsidiary and crime at work, this is at the top of the sheet, taking on the social security network in a decisive way. Effective measures must be implemented immediately and must be carried out. The activities and ASI organization have likewise fought for these years, and there are comprehensive suggestions that can be made immediately. A respectable president. I made this inquiry about three weeks ago, and now this weekend, I was on the news that the wording is set up that the bill intended for social security and deadlines to pass the headlines is until Thursday. Of course, it's a pleasure, as far as it gets, and thank you very much. Ministers are very, very eager for quick reactions, young and severe, and respond quickly. But I have three questions. Some of them, of course, are out - of - date. One's going to go to the top. A minister proposes to present the matter on the spring or on the day when she will see it and may feel that the existing steps will be sufficiently handled in order to eliminate it. And finally: What is the timing of a minister's attention regarding further legal adjustments needed to attack in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u68	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunnsson for the inquiry. If only you would need three weeks to prepare a case like this in order to respond when a query is sent. But it is true that if it becomes legal, the so-called social security protocol will be over. But this is a step that matters, is very careful and well prepared, and long enough for us to take and finish. I sincerely hope that the bill will be received well, the necessary treatment will be given, and then we will be united here before spring and take these steps. First, I'd like to state that going bankrupt is not illegal in this country. How important it is that we keep up - to - date with the discussion of these matters! On the contrary, it is important to be moderate in looking for ways to correct and that the action under attack is well - thought - out, and that measures such as this not be taken may be considered. Stops pioneers and innovations, or restricts, or disqualifys foreign investors from bringing funding into Icelandic employment. It is important to foster the threat of a fair business and competitive environment in this country. Therefore, it is important to look for ways to cope with the misuse of the components of the combination, since this is nothing more than a misuse of it and a job social security number. So the word social security is used to describe a particular misuse of owners in the shelter of limited responsibility, especially when illegal behavior is suspected. The Board of Directors now provides a bill for the adjustment of public penalties, social law, private-party laws, and the law on auto-employing institutions. The objective of the bill is to prevent the misuse of the components of the formulation and is the work-of-work identification index. The bill is based on the covenant of the government classes, including those in the United States. To find a discussion about the government's policy in labour markets and social security statistics, it is specified in particular. The bill is the first step in responding to the National Association of Iceland's joint proposals and the Association of Employment since June 2017, to the success of social security. This case has been in operation ever since. Of course, such primitive televisions in some form have been working very long in the councils and submitted regularly to the council, but this case has been in progress since the summer of 2017 when we accepted these proposals, me and the then financial minister, Benedikt Jóhannesson. This is a difficult task that has called for a large conversation between recruitment, ASI, business organization, and others. There has been a period of time when experts, both inside and outside, were called. But I also assume that the matter is well worked to bear on the political treatment and to be approved. The suggestion that the most emphasis has been made is the ASI and SA that it is possible to determine an individual for a job ban in certain cases. This was a special consideration of how the Community's proposal for a job ban could be implemented to fit the general case here. In this relationship it must be kept in mind that it is important to treat rapidly these events and therefore need to consider the current situation. As we evaluate the implementation of a job test, it is best to weigh the perspective on effectiveness and public interest, as well as the safety of the citizens, and a moderate measure of safety. The changes suggested in the bill are three. First, there is a suggestion for a change in 262 st. a general penal law, but the proposal is that individuals in a job ban can be ruled for up to three years by court, the subject has been guilty of violations involving 262.g. a general penal law. This is a major offense against the specified regulations on income taxes, the payment of public pay standards, the payment of merit taxation, the accounting laws, and the annual bill. The bill also suggests that the list will be added to the specified rules in the related insurance policy of pension and pension funds so that pension commitments will be granted the equivalent of protection and protection of taxes. Second, the bill suggests that there is a change in the social law, that the relevant terms of the executives and the executives of such institutions are expanded and that it is comparable to the relevant conditions for members of the partner, private partner and auto-employers who are engaged in employment activities as well for those who have received a propransion. Third, it is suggested that a secretary's license under the social law and private law in order to require exchange of such members in certain legal cases will be transferred to partner files. [[The president calls.]] I expect to get the bill into the council for a certain amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u69	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this inquiry and thank the candidate for interest in this matter. I can make him happy because he has nothing to wait for because the matter is already before the Council. It's on the committee now. The middle class delivered this issue on autumn days. In that case, there is a difference. a law that if you fail three times in 18 months, you will not be allowed to operate enterprises for two years afterwards. It's very efficient, very clear and very simple, and I'm glad to have a good help with this bill because I don't doubt it. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson will be delighted to follow our bill. Now, you see, there's nothing to do but rip this bill out of a committee and make it a law. It is possible to do so in a wonderful way. With this, I'm not minimizing the response of the Minister, whom I am very pleased with, but I think that the bill of our Middle Class is going beyond the Prime Minister's bill and therefore become a much more sharp weapon in the battle of the disaster of the landmark. I'll be especially happy if it is. paritaprevir Brjánsson will help us. This is our good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u70	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about some action against Social Security, and then we'll ask for it. S. Guðjón Brjánsson to the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers, Þórdís K. R. Gylfadóttir. I rejoice here, as others have done, to the highest. Minister intends to use measures against social security and this misuse of the components. We candidates have previously provided a bill for this subject. I think it's like a bill that hasn't. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Sæmundsson referred to here earlier than before. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson had a road and problem with writing that bill back then. This aim is to put an even professional ban on the job, I think that it is in line with the suggestions that have so far been discussed in this matter. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister at the end, for in answer to my inquiry on this matter, it was observed that this was not legally defined so far and therefore cannot be assessed the consequences of this, whether he intends to initiate a group to evaluate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u71	A respectable president. I could not help but say when I heard the reason. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson tells us that he had given the solution to these cases, since he would have proposed a bill on this subject. Then I'd like to point it out. A senator should study the reviews that have caused the bill to come to us into the Economic and Business Committee, because I think after reviewing it, it's our conclusion that this route is not possible. As much as I agree with what is stated in the inquiry and the objective of the bill as it is. paritaprevir It's important to take care of these materials before Sæmundsson's speech. It's like the highest. A minister came in handy with the need to consider that the emerging environment here. I welcome the highest. Minister spoke of, i.e. to offer a bill in some way in this regard. Of course, we must always remember that there is a strong, good environment for innovation. There can be no restraint on the issue of employment. Of course, all of us want to prevent social security, which is actually a delinquency, and there is a firm criminal nature, must not be handled by honest people who are here trying to make a point in their employment activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u72	A respectable president. Thank you for the great discussion and for the celebration of the bill. This effort is very important. There's a lot of business damage here. The art of teaching is a natural form of our fingertips in business life, and this can be likened to the switch of fingerprints to facilitate the use of fingerprints. So they are people who have lost their right to professional success. It needs to be addressed. But at once, like a bang. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir took steps, and we need to remember that there is also a need for a restoration of professional hopes. You need to be able to burn yourself again, especially with regard to innovation and the like. Therefore, this should not be too cruel at the same time. [[The president calls.]] However, prism needs to be controlled and prevented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the answers and for the rest of the speakers. I want to say the bottom line. Minister when she says bankruptcy is not illegal in Iceland. As mentioned earlier, we are primarily talking about violations, just as we were discussing chain responsibilities and violations of the work market during the discussion. Of course, the purpose of this bill is to place the leak that the main owners and managers can in the shelter of limited responsibilities become evident when they run their companies repeatedly. I'd like to allow me to ask the minister again: Are the wood laws presented on the bill sufficiently and clearly, in her opinion? Will they produce the desired results? The changes we are considering involve only the cases when you are found guilty of violations against regulations 262. gr. The penalties, which may be serious, do not include other cases. So the demands may not be fully protected by society in general for social security. But the second thing is that we constantly do all the talking about the crimes that we're going to be so gruelingly aware of all too often, that companies change social security numbers, and even don't even change names. The society's let it go. That's not good morals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u74	Mr. President. So I'll take it as a matter of course. paritaprevir The S. Brjánsson's minister came in here, it is true that this planned change applies only to those cases when you are convicted of major violations against certain legal requirements and does not include other cases. That is why we believe that a necessary addition to the changes proposed in my bill is now a change in the law of bankruptcy. Working on the legal adjustments is in the hands of the Ministry of Justice and Justice Minister, who is the one here, temporarily. That work is already started. The matter was worked in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, and it is aimed at providing the bill for a change in the law of bankruptcy at the next legislation. They will be seen in neighboring lands as they continue to work. I feel very anxious about people, and I understand them. Some ask, " Why can't we just do what Sweden did, now? ' But Sweden took the first step more than 30 years ago so that we cannot expect one bill to reach the location that Sweden has made over 30 years of taking step by step. They learn from experience. First, these were the few convicted in a professional ban. As time went on, their numbers increased each year. So do we expect that we will be here, that we will move forward, and that we will be seen in neighboring countries for continued work. It is now an opportunity to try to start a systematic collection of information on this abuse through these changes. We do not have an accurate overview of the scope, but we expect it to be comparable to what is in the North countries and it cannot be expected to be less than there. I honestly believe that this bill will produce the desired results, but more is needed. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for the discussion. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u75	President. There is no question that climate is the world's biggest problem today. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for having this discussion with me because this is the case trying to apply it as the highest level. When it comes to dealing with this problem, a government puts much emphasis on, a new thought. I've told you several times in this chair, President, that there is no one answer to the problem facing the earth because of the warming of the climate. There are not two, three, or four answers: there are countless. We need to clean up all aspects of human life and human conduct. There I have looked to the source of this inquiry, whether it is possible to set a policy in which the state's machines and divulge rights to the usefulness of a carbon sharer. I have a similar inquiry inside, Mr. President, to the highest level. The secretary of finance, but here, I'm looking at the top cause of business. Marine and agricultural ministers, especially ocean resources. As noted in the inquiry, the first question is, would it be possible to define the practicality of the common resources of the ocean so that the flow of carbon components will be guaranteed? That's a pretty open question, and I can't wait to hear a minister fly with me, i.e. Into the depths of the sea. I then ask, President, how such policy would be used in the battle against climate change and to support international commitment as the objective of the government on carbon - free Iceland in the year 2040. We have set lofty goals, higher than most, if not all other nations, about a lack of carbon in the year 2040. And it should be a further pressure on what I came to say in the beginning of my speech, that we look at countless solutions, and really look at every series of cases about how we're going to reach a non-carbonization here. I realize, Mr. President, this is nothing you can jump into one, two and three. Therefore, I ask, " How would such a policy affect the use of the specified resources and, if a minister follows a policy, when would it be reasonable to believe that it will take effect? ' Because it is obvious that such a provision would have a profound effect on those who are currently using the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry on important matters, certainly. As noted in his case, climate is focused on more knowledge and more expectations and demand that measures be taken to counter the trend in which most scientists in this field believe to be taking place. Here's a question, and I'll go into one particular job and I'll try to do the best I can, as the bar mitzvah said. It is asked if we should acknowledge the use of some common resources in an effort to ensure the lack of carbon components of the same products. I think this is a very difficult subject. But I'm going to try to get it a little closer from the seaside, and then I'm going to try to get closer to the question. Of course, I think it is important that the energy exchange, which in many ways might be said to have begun in the fishing industry, be built on solid foundations and, as well as on a technical basis, and I don't think that we are in the place today to be able to give a definitive answer to the current level of technology, whether we could be more effective by tying the marine ectoplasmic soil and because of this, in addition to the actions planned by the government in climate. It is a very ambitious plan of action, and I believe it is a broad solidarity and a great deal of competition for the government to follow it up. But the main reason why I look at it is that it is the motivation and the responsibility of a committee to deal with these topics. However, I would like to mention that fuel costs are largely part of the cost of fishing, and taxation is therefore a major source of energy exchange. Nor should we overlook the fact that the fishing industry has achieved significant results in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This may seem to be about 43% of reductions since 1990. I doubt that other professions have achieved similar results to that of the sea route. The main reason, according to those regarding these matters, is for better fishing. It is not until the last two to five years that people see new technologies in ships that have led to climate change, but for the Navy itself, we have much farther to land than in the fleet of cars. There has been a high economy with better control of fish and fuel - evasion. It will require both new technologies and climate-friendly fuel if we are to go further in this direction. Looking at how governments can support this, there is some kind of support to the seabed to speed up evolution. One small example involves the use of time paid by ships, the only profession involved in this fee, this tax. If we were, for example. with the sector in the same place as with other employment, it may be able to speed up the publication's renewal, which is of no means. But in answer to that question as a question. I believe that the action we have been doing and are working at the position today is much more practical and better to achieve this common goal than we can go to terms with limited quality to achieve certain results in this area. I think it would be hard for us today to get it on. I'm aware of that, like what happened. In contrast, a senator suggested that he thinks of this for a longer time, but I'm in that place that I believe we need to see better and more technological development in the fishing industry before we can get to a place where we can understand the two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u77	A respectable president. I come up here mostly to celebrate the initiative. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér to present this inquiry to the highest level. Minister and welcome to this discussion. I think there's a very interesting idea here that's probably working further. That's right, the highest. The minister turned aside from having certain successes. Of course, the types are different, but they are aware of this and they have really worked hard, some of them, on these topics. I'd just like to step on some black oil and remind you that this cruise ship, just off the coast of Norway, Viking Sky, was powered by black oil, and such ships are sailing on Icelanders, and even Icelandic fishing companies have ships driven by black oil. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask this question if it's the highest. A minister may consider such an incinerator a reason to consider, perhaps even building a restriction? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u78	President. I appreciate the discussion and the highest. Minister for the answer. To me, there is no doubt that this will be so in the future. I think it's gonna be like this in the world that we're looking at the fact that we have to keep our carbon share of things. And when a proper disposal system is established and we have to start counting it to the expense that is actually behind them, we will not think any more about it. It's just that if you're gonna take advantage of something, you're gonna have to make sure you don't have any carbon components. This will be the case with all the sectors, especially those that use our common resources. Let us remember that, as more is food than solid kerosene, and there is more of a carbon share than an exhalation, though it is always the best, but especially because of the fact that binding is being carried out. An example in foreign - city organization is that institutions and even universities that want to expand with them are allowed to do so against the growth of traffic, that they maintain neutrality in automobile traffic, but if they succeed in maintaining the increase, to zero. I think it's like we have to think that you can use a resource, but then you can't increase the negativeness of the country's common climate structure. That's why I'm asking questions about the future. I realize that it's taking the first step in something that we can't answer right now. Power exchanges have begun. The last proper energy exchange that the nation entered was when energy was replaced in houses and in people's homes. Then the official came in very strong. It was only done in two, three years. The market is not the only one who can lead. It takes much government support, not just motivation. [[The president calls.]] Let us remember that we must, in fact, be, as Western society not just non-carbons, but carbon-negative if we look at the world's farms, since not all lands are neutral. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u79	A respectable president. I really appreciate the discussion, first to answer. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson. This is in the Treaty Treaty and in the project on the climate issues presented by the Government and the Environment Minister. It was assumed that we were going to go for a ban on the use of black oil in Iceland's economic legal history. It may take some time to get it done, but it is certainly on schedule. When we consider this Proppér Óttarsson. Kolbeinn have given the vision and the vision to these matters, that this is something that will be gained in discussion and action. But as we discuss common resources, we also need to recognize that this may be a time for us to rephrase the concept. The way you plan to walk through the streets of town, etc., it may well be that we need to consider this in a larger context. When we look at only one industry per se, the seabed in this relationship, it has only 11% of the emissions falling under the Kyoto Convention. [[Up front.]] Another business contains 89% of the commitment. That's where the big job is. This industry is on the right track, and it has shown tremendous perseverance and ingenuity and technology to cope with this. It's to be especially welcomed. But I will be glad to accept that song from now on. A senator when he's taken care of every warning I'm working on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u80	A respectable president. I offered another request for the Supreme Decision. Marine and agricultural minister to allow continued whaling here to the highest level. Minister of innovation and travel. They were filled with lively discussions that included. it turned out that whales were fish, all those who had tails were fish, whales were good taste, and other interesting things were revealed. I realize that this is a corporation government of many categories, but I still think it's a reason to get the highest estimate. Environment and resource ministers in this matter. I'm asking the highest. A minister of the 209 long - term fishing campaign and 217 in view of the reports from the National Institute of Marine Research that the decline in groundwater in Iceland since the turn of the century was high. There have been convincing evidence that the warming of the sea caused the collapse of sandy sandy farms and the collapse of the pack and the tern and the decline to Jan Mayen. In view of this, I consider it irresponsible to let the hunt of 207 and 209 long-term. We have no idea of how these lost mammals are angry with warm and sour waters. Second, I ask, "Is there any reason for a minister to consider changes in protection, peace, and fishing laws on wild birds and wild mammals as well as whales? ' There is no difference in the fact that there has been a major change in the attitude of the population of whales and the protection of nature in general in recent decades and in increasing numbers of people who realize the magnitude and importance of the whale's nature protection. In this regard it can also be noted that in international affairs, whale fishing has become a problem for Iceland, making it more difficult for Icelanders to lead in good and responsible association with ocean resources. Because of the warming and acidification of the oceans, there is also reason to wonder whether the interests of Icelanders may be involved in protecting all whales.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u81	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for his inquiry. I said, in a written answer to a question of why. paritaprevir Last year, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, that I wasn't convinced that whaling here was sustainable. Then I also expressed my doubts that Iceland's interests in using whales are as great as sometimes claimed. Regarding animal life in Iceland, the Government Treaty says that animal life is part of Icelandic nature to be protected. Nature is also the largest attraction in Iceland for tourists. In the bulletin of the National Institute for Marine Research at the highest level. A large reduction in groundwaters and agricultural ministers in the hunting industry is reported to have been seen in Iceland's groundwaters and in the use of fishing advice. It also says that talking does not indicate loss of stock size but appears to have slided north due to reductions in herring and hairy appearance in summer. These are eco-ological factors that are put in place, but as the memo says, the cohesion of whale and fish stocks at times changes in the marine environment is difficult to assess in the last two decades and years. A scruple came in. In other words, the environment is quick and seems to change rapidly. Also, the Board of Travellers has recently declared disillusionment with a minister's decision. I still believe that whale fishing will be considered overall based on the three pillars of sustainableity, i.e. Environmental, social and economic views. Therefore, I believe that the decision of a marine economist and agricultural minister to continue fishing in the whales should have taken into account the three, but not merely the hunting advice of the Marine Research Institute, and I have declared this opinion to be my opinion before. In the Environmental and Resource Ministry, there is an opinion about the change in the protection, peace and fishing laws on wild birds and wild mammals, as it is required in the Treaty. Since these laws are about 25 years old, there is a strong need to look at their changes. I expect to submit that bill at the next legislature. For the purpose of this work at the Ministry, a large report is being prepared in 20103/42013, entitled Protection, Health, and Fishing of Wild Birds and mammals. In the meantime, the Environment and Resource Minister appointed eight members of the panel of various institutions in this field and representatives of members of a community organization, such as Scotland and Bird Protection, which produced the above report. The Commission was designed to shed clear light on the legal status of wild mammals and birds in Iceland, including with respect to animal protection considerations and suggest improvements. The guide was meeting the targets of current legislation and the international agreements of Iceland and the protection of wild mammals and birds as well as the fishing of them. The work of the Committee was not limited to the implementation of existing laws; it was to consider protection, peace, and fishing on wild animals, including seals and whales, in broad context. The Commission's proposal for all these species that fall under seals and whales suggests that a review of the legal environment and its management takes into account that all kinds of seals and whales are under law on wild mammals and birds. It also says that the review aims to meet the international agreements in the field of nature protection and sustainable use of resources for which Iceland is involved. I have stressed that the proposals of the Committee will be based on a review of the laws on protection, peacemaking and fishing in wild birds and wild mammals, particularly in view of the publication of the Icelandic Natural Institute for Natural Science. A fall. According to the Institute of Natural Sciences, nationalisations are at an acute risk and are in some danger. If these species are not to be harmed, we must ensure protection. Whether seals and whales should be heard under law on the protection, welfare and fishing of wild birds and mammals is the point that will be considered in a published review of the law in consultation with the Department of Professional and Newborns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u82	V.E.G. President. For years we Icelanders have listened to counseling about fish stocks and followed them very well, and I have no reason to believe that this is not done when whales are involved. We Marine Research Institutes are the leading scientists who have studied these institutions. It has been found that in these northern seas, the number of well - watered animals is increasing, the number of more than 100,000, and the size of 200 animals is not large. The tick is about 45,000 animals. Norwegians are about to increase their game of hunting. We haven't caught the past few years unless some 30, 50 animals, something like that, even though the dinner was higher, so I don't think there's any risk of catching a whale. For other influences, as mentioned earlier in the discussion, a whale inspection with a lot of flowers in Iceland has never been in better places than now. [[The president calls.]] It may also be dangerous to take one animal out of the chain and to appease it, as we have naturally seen by a fox's peace on the Horn coast, where there is no voice in a bird, and all the ledges that the fox finds to be empty of a bird. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, which I believe, were quite clear to both questions. I asked him first of all if he thought this fishing was going to happen. I understood the best. Minister so he doesn't think so. Second, I asked him if he thought that the changes to the protection, peacemaking, and fishing laws in wild birds and wild mammals were also the result. I understood the Minister and he agreed. Thank you very much. Ministers have their answers, and that's all they have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-25-83.u84	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for your excellent discussion here today. I don't think it's a secret that we debate about it in Iceland what to do about whaling. In such cases, it's my religion and my belief that it's only good that such differences exist, not under them. We hear it here at the conference Hall that we don't all agree on this, and it's also okay. My opinion is that we need to look to more than ecological factors, as reflected in my case, especially economics, and also the impact of whaling on our country's image, the image of tourism, our image as a country that teaches itself on nature protection and environmental protection. Only with regard to the revision of the law, the animal law, as it is called in everyday speech, I look forward to going to that job. As the committee discovered at the time, it is important to consider whether whales and seals are more likely to live under that law. I don't promise anything about what the conclusion will be about it, but we will, of course, look at it, for an excellent reason that it might be a good arrangement. But finally, I want to thank you again very much for the discussion. I'm sure we'll talk about this over and over again.
