ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u1	A respectable president. The third energy pack has been very busy. Fear of Iceland's loss of control over its resources, the extravasation of power in this case, the violation of the constitution, and the formation of gaps between Congress and nation, is reported. It is worth discussing all these points in a discussion about the third energy package, which I expect to be discussed one day, probably in the near future. However, what all of these have in common is that they are vague in the government order today. The right to resource use has been real bite bones for decades. There is also legal uncertainty. The expeditation of power is at some academic place that is more concerned with which senators will respond than with what is written in a song. In the end, political coordination is decided simply by the votes of members of Congress, and there is no bridge between a council and a nation other than regular or irregular general elections. A new constitution contains solutions to all these problems, each one at a time. If a new constitution had come into force for the third energy package and the discussion about it, I would say that the matter was long solved because there was no doubt about national resources. Second, democracies would be the result of extenuating power. Third, there would be a legal act that could settle the Constitutional compatibility before the case was agreed on at the General and as part of its formal process, rather than that the members of the Parliament referred to social scholars as needed. Fourth, the voters themselves could bring up a case in a national bill if all of it were to fail. The third energy pack is a reminder and a warning, not that the EEA is going too far, there are other EEA cases that may be signs of that, or that Iceland is on its way in the EU or is losing its sovereignty. It is a reminder of how things can easily get complicated when the basics are wrapped up too long. And they've been tagged too long. The solution to this matter, as in so many others, is that the conservative elements no longer pretend to be over all the changes and were forced to introduce a new constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u2	Mr. President. Recently, a report on organized crime in Iceland is a shocking reading. The final report on this subject was published in 2017. I think there's probably five or six special discussions here at a council meeting about the police position, but nothing's happened. Her situation to cope with this threat has not been resolved. It speaks of a so - called grave danger, a high level of danger due to the activities of organized crime in Iceland. Of these, there are four gangs of crime that are in the kategorith, or high - level group. It's drug transport, it's smuggling people and mansale, and it's money bullshit. The second - largest step is a job market fracture and a circuit fracturer. There are activities, in addition to national bodies, criminal groups of seven nations, who tell you that both premeditated authorities are needed to apply to a greater extent than has been done. We've got to work with the police's instruments. The police have to go up. It is believed that 15% of police culture should be taking the initiative at any given time. But there is no room for that here right now because there are about 80 officers missing just here in the capital area. This can't continue to be like this, Mr. President. It can't be. The minister of this legal class and the government must deal with this issue even now. I understand that the report should be read in a complete way. It is 37 pp. It'll take half an hour. So I advise people to stop reading and speaking but to start.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u3	A respectable president. Icelandic exports are one of the most progressive commercial roads in Iceland and, in fact, the only real construction roads that can be compared to international spools. The article has met a shrinking note by all means of attendance. The report has reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 50% on exported products. There are now sparks of ocean-fishing, no hairy ones, and predictions about shrinking mackerels are misleading, and we go for carbons far beyond the weekend. A forward - looking project is looking for new projects to be used in foreign assignments from the year forward. A respectable president. We place such restrictions on a ship that needs to fly out in order to fish in other lands's jurisdiction temporarily. The cost of unloading a ship can be estimated from 50 in the first century B.C.E. K. and the same amount of money when the ship is registered back to the country within the same year or in the range of 100 to140 billion. K. to advance. A respectable president. No one will ever think of placing such a price on planes recorded in Iceland or the activities of innovation companies who want to serve abroad with their equipment. Plunger charge of fishing vessels is taxation to prevent progress. Plunger price on a ship prevents valuable jobs from taking place in the hands of Icelandic sailors. Plunger price on a ship is an intolerable discrimination imposed by governments and inhibits progress and participation in distant tickets. A respectable president. Determination of fishing vessels. There is the wrong message in the cost that prevents the creation of valuable export products. Let's send a clear message to the Navy to start a foreign field and to ensure that we share in the fish stocks most in the world. This needs to be equal to a job when it comes to the time of the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u4	Mr. President. In the climate debate and government debate, words such as inactivity and fallrates are heard. There are words that I believe to be of no benefit to anyone, and I repeat that the climate demands objective criticism, supported by reason and facts. Surely, it must be done better than we've already made, and that's where we're all heading. There is a long list of actions requiring increased participation, e.g. Both rural and government. In new climate laws, both sides are obliged to establish climate policy. This is also true of the companies and it is certainly increasing now. This also applies to members of society and the public, and both are on the rise. The economic downturn is not allowed to prevent us. We need to spend the money that is set up for this in government matters. But the budget needs to be increased as well. I have considered whether to put aside temporarily flat climate costs from the carbon, which, for example, are slowly increasing, on either all the taxpayers in the country or on fossil fuels users, such as airlines and rentals, privates and businesses, etc. I'd like to point out 1,000 bucks. in 250,000 currency, we receive a quarter of a billion, 250 billion. K. every year. So 2,000 c., 3,000 k. - They can clearly see where I'm going. I think it's time now, ten years before we're supposed to stand by the Paris convention, that we're really going to consider this. They often complain about taxes, but this would be a very positive tax. So I'm gonna tell all of you here, think it over with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u5	A respectable president. Yesterday, we agreed on a pact of legalization on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I'm sorry, but Congress laws here at Congress have to fall into a drawer and be forgotten. This was the case with a synonym, where the Council concluded that the terms of the contract were also validated by the end of 2017. It hasn't been done today. This was the case in the follow-up because the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disappointment was held. I'm sorry, but the situation seems like this. After a group of consultations on reimbursement of social security, where I firmly believed that it should and would be seen to see that the centenarians would go out, unfortunately, it is not the fact. For example, in 2009, this pathetic special exchange for help has become a monster. Then, too, they use the age - related supplements into these pits in order to get money from someone who should be least successful. This is totally incomprehensible to me. I say for my part, it's time for us here at council to show more respect for microdoers than this. Let's not always let the rest, if anyone is, fall on the table of the cripples. Sadly, in most cases, this leftover is once used for the disability. It is always cutting and cutting more and more. As miserable as it is, the situation will always be worse for micropigs and they will no longer have food on their plate if that continues. That sucks on government orders by government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u6	A respectable president. Last night, Iceland's studio published a first - time issue on the percentage and the estimated number of young people outside the school and job market. There are some interesting points to consider when discussing young people's issues. It is estimated that 6% of young people 16◯24 years of age did not have work, schooling, or training during the past year. This is about 2,400 young people. According to the International Workshop, this group may be at risk for social isolation and lack of material advantages because they do not earn jobs or build up their skills with increased education or training. 2,400 young people seem to be high numbers, and surely they need to be observed by this group, giving him advice and service that he needs. However, this is the ratio with the lowest known in Europe. Only two countries in Europe have a lower proportion of young people who are not studying, working or training. The proportion of this group is again similar to what was known here in the years before a collapse. However, the gap between men and women without work, study, or training has increased in recent years. There may be a number of reasons for these differences, and again, there is less gender in this country than in any other part of Europe. A respectable president. It is one of the UN's world aims to reduce a significant percentage of non- work, education, or training people in the United Nations. We seem to be doing well there, but we must be careful not to let our guard down when it comes to our young ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u7	Mr. President. During the last few weeks here at the council Hall, we have been marked by the vast and incomprehensible language of the Central Party, which no purpose has served, most notably the public interest. But this is the rules of the game. However, yesterday another big and important issue was reached on the agenda, reviewing the government financial policy until the next five years. The situation is so growing that for a few hours the government held it up, and unfortunately, most of the opposition was made to other groups of government opposition because non - Witness officials were unable to participate in the discussions - and no one held a talk, outside the speaker. I'm sorry, this is a big, important matter. But now there is a first. of that end, and the case came to a committee, as it should be. Now, during the discussion, some members of the government, including two ministers, found themselves struggling to link this matter to a series of hours of discussions with the many weeks of the Middle Party's speech and thereby minimize the importance of this matter and the work of the council in general. It may be that in this discussion the directors did not trust, that they wanted her to be in silence primarily, that the execution of this embarrassing matter would not be done at all. They did not want it because we, in the opposition, were doing our duty. However, that the response of government officials was to inquire of the governmental groups that have supported a limping government in a practical way with this overhauling debate of the Central Party - that, Mr. President, isn't just a lie, not just incomprehensible, and some would say insignificant, it's quite impertinent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u8	V.E.G. President. Industrial industry is a very big business. The article is wide and nearly all aspects of the economy. It is certain that industrialization has played a significant role in the current economic surge and has created about a quarter of the work that has been formed since 2010. Unemployment has declined substantially since 2008 after the collapse of the economy and in the industrial industry, bringing back a third of the economic growth at this time. Iceland's competitiveness in the article with other countries has been increasing in recent years. It surely has a greater capacity and is a major part of it. It is said that intelligent and economic growth will go hand in hand. In order to increase the value of our cousins, Dan and I have made great progress in this regard by developing a long - term structure. They set up a production center in 1978 with good results, and initially the goal was to increase awareness and design in small and medium-sized companies. Dana's design industry, it can be said, has become a source and is constantly developing and providing competitive opportunities for companies and institutions. If we were to set a good example for Icelanders, we could imitate them. Good reputations in countries increase the value of warning from the country, and most of the population in the country sees Iceland as a pioneer internationally, but in the climate, we could take the lead if we kept our cards right. We could increase our reputation by taking the lead in climate matters. This trend would influence competitiveness in countries where money and people and businesses look more closely to those who do well in this regard. We have an application that would get us better on the world map. Our policy in the Middle East has been to build under industrial and technical branches, especially by access to education and the special financial resources to that end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u9	A respectable president. I'm in a mess today because I'm going to talk about the situation in our garbage and garbage business here. In the last few weeks, the situation in local camps has been quite a factor, and it has been a terrible experience to see images of a stupid hole in which garbage has been spilled in many parts of the world. There's no record of such pollution. But there are other places to watch over the news. It seems now that the country's largest threat zone is in a lot of trouble. It's the Eelphinsium. This facility is at the highest level of urbanity, and over the years the population of Mosfellstown has been disturbed by olfactory pollution, which has been in Eelfsnes since 1991. In 2013 the owners of village, which are the rural communities here in the capital area, made an agreement that the watch ended there in 2020, since the inhabitants of Mosfellstown, for a long time, 30 years, had been able to withstand corruption in their backyard. But now we hear that there is a possibility that this agreement is not possible and that it is utterly unacceptable. This is because it has not yet been found, since no one wants it in their backyard. Not that Iceland and I don't own a lot of land, so it's amazing that for all these years there has been no other solution. Now I'm not just going to be pessimism, because at last, a long - awaited gas - build station will rise in Elfs and will greatly reduce the price of an extremely important environment. But a gas and geological station does not change the fact that something doesn't fit into such a station will still need to be removed. It is also essential that the country has at least one area of activity. one powerful burning station to receive waste that cannot be recycled or destroyed. A respectable president. I fear very much that in the processing measures, our overall perspective is missing because the project is on the shoulders of our rural society and, unfortunately, has not, despite repeated efforts, has been successful enough with cooperation between parts of the country in these substances. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Is it not reasonable that the government will take over this important environment and ensure that this country has a environmental solution to our waste? [[The president calls.]] Of course, the personal enterprise, innovation, and new avenues can undoubtedly be used in these matters, but the situation needs to be settled for the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u10	Mr. President. Suppose this is where a commercial aircraft travels every second year, that there are dozens of people killed in a plane crash between Reykjavík and Akureyri. Suppose there was a epidemic that mainly lays on young people and that every ten days a person under 40 died. What if a traffic accident did multiply compared to what is now taking place? Mr. President. I am convinced that the community was on the other end of the world and that the reaction of any kind, research, and analysis would not be ignored and that the debates were all about these terrible traumas and accidents. But little happens in that direction, since here we are talking about individuals who die from an overdose of drugs. That is why some 30 young people die in this country. Thirty people in Iceland. Our little community is hurting because of these and families. These are people from all society's laws, kids who feel bad or are dealing with an addiction or simply experimenting with it. We live in a pretty crazy society sometimes. Speed is high, and comparison with others because of social media can be difficult. Our young people often suffer from anxiety and depression. There is a lack of purpose that some and computers and devices can function as temporary escapes but are actually in prison. Mr. President. The political projects are getting bigger. Work together to improve our well - being and to stop overlooking the death of dozens of Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u11	V.E.G. President. Today, the welfare committee is due a bill to correct the change in social assistance and social security law, if that's all that remains. A letter received yesterday from the Quantum Community states that it is certainly positive to reduce the decrease rate due to certain revenues, while it also shows that the decline rate is still too high. I'd like to agree with what's more: it's presented as a unique feature, and it can hardly be defined as the course to follow. ARBS notes that it would have been better to keep forwarding criteria unchanged, which means that those who have only a penile microenergy pension still have to wait. Now, a big question in my mind is, How can this group always be overlooked? I feel very sorry that these individuals are not being contacted. It is not good enough to suggest a recalculation to include only certain types of reforms, and there is a very serious flaw in its failure to perform a reimbursement. This is one of the main obstacles to going back to the workforce. To get back into that same job market, it's hard to imagine the need to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u12	Mr. President. Soun takes various forms. Some time ago, the News magazine reported that there was a loss of some of the values. 400 gigahours of electricity in transport of electricity from activation to public and major users. The reduction has increased approximately 7% between years. An interview that the paper had with Sverrir Jan Norðfjörður, president of the energy company of energy forecasters and the European Commission of the Development and Technology of the Landsnets, found that it is an enormous value we waste. Word by word of mouth, Sverrir Jan, said by permission of the president: ▪ We've been increasing production progressively over the past few years, but we've been unable to build up the transport system properly. Food and other activities have been discussed in the field where food is the key to making people think about waste. So we also need to start looking at the electricity, Mr. President. Why do we lose energy there? Because electricity transport systems cannot cope with transport. The loss of transport, the waste, the equivalent of Black Angel. If we put it in another context, we can assume that financial losses are around 2.5 billion per year, at least 2.5 billion. Then we continue to discuss the third energy package as if it were no tomorrow but let us take a light bed that every year we waste 2.5 billion because of a poor transport system. And we have not yet been able to do what we have to do, which is to ensure equal power prices for the entire population.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u13	Mr. President. According to the General Assembly Programme, tomorrow's Senate work should be completed. For obvious reasons, jobs have been delayed. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, who spoke of an extremely dull behavior on behalf of members of more parts and Ministers, who were accused of a very helpful discussion of the government's new financial policy yesterday, of the memory, in a few hours' discussion about this, was being engaged in a lawsuit, but who failed to take part in the discussion despite going well on the evenings, which is unfortunate. But what I find more interesting about the position that exists now, when a council should have ended tomorrow, is that there is no government financial policy. The government's proposal for financial policy on its own day before the council should have gone home is not available, let alone that time has been set aside to look at it or to discuss it. People in the media have not been overlooked in recent days that they are able to negotiate with this government for the end of the council, since it is totally empty - handed to them. Congress leaders sit in unsupervised meetings and have nothing to say. Also, the directors of the board of governments have nothing to offer as a release. It may be that the government is simply not ready for the end of the council. She is not prepared for the matters that she must complete here the day before the council should have gone home, so she is grateful for the delays that have taken place in the council so far. The government has not yet done his homework.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u14	A respectable president. Prior to the council, there is a bill on the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers for changes in animal diseases laws and protection against them, food laws and the law on the control of food, crop and seed products. Along with the bill, there is a proposal for an action plan on food safety and protection of livestock stocks. The plan is in 17 teams aimed at promoting food security, securing housing protection and improving the competitive status of domestic food production. To me, this is a major turning point for consumers and food producers. Article 5 of the Action Programme says, with the permission of the President: To reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance, the European Environment Agency is expected to have the lead in a procedure to reduce the spread of antimicrobial resistance. Within the framework of international commitments and on the grounds of public health, the Icelandic government will aim to prevent spread of food that is identified as antibiotic resistant bacteria. This should include: with a ban on the distribution of certain classes of antibiotics-resistant bacteria in food, the exception of the analysis of the position, the introduction of surveillance and in accordance with official policies for the prevention of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u15	Mr. President. Great international changes have been taking place in recent decades, changing rapidly and in larger stages. I listened for a brief fraction of an interview with the former president of the British Labor Party, Tony Blair, published on the page of The Independent, discussing this changed world picture. He will discuss it in the context of the fact that the British are now leaving the European Union. He speculates that there are now perhaps three major powers that are, of course, the United States, China, and possibly India. Then he discussed world power and influence and that small countries such as Britain, Germany, and France did not meet up with themselves in this new world. The great blocks have great power, people, military power, and technology. Thus, it would be a complete denial of the British to think that they would do better on their own than by contributing together with other European countries to listen and to be able to influence and not become the proponents of these superpowers. I thought of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u16	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize social aid legislation, No. 99/2007, and Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. The primary objective of reducing the effectiveness of other revenues is to improve social security and social assistance in calculating specific pensions due to the implementation of disability and rehabilitation of donors. In a group of consultations on the change in social security because of lack of ability, which recently returned its reports and proposals, the need to cancel the specific extension was discussed. This has already been done in sensibilities, but by law No. 116/2016, of the change in social security law and other laws, were three benefits, pensions, income insurance and special compensations, combined into one new category, pension. However, it is considered best that such large changes in the improvement system will be made in conjunction with a modified system to evaluate the functioning of individuals with impaired ability. Such a system change is extensive and complex, requiring time - consuming preparation and is important. However, it is urgent that the changes in specific supplements are already being made as a result of the production of energy and rehabilitation of donors expected in the bill. A respectable president. Special supplementation laid down in the Social Services Act has been paid in addition to the disability and rehabilitation of pensions when the total income is under a set limit, since late 2008. When the entire income of a pensioner rises, the remuneration has been reduced. This is what the daily talk has called a dollar to a dollar's decrease. The principles that have had this effect have greatly been criticized in public discussions, including has been criticized that this arrangement reduces the drive to earn money. It has also been found to be critical that the improvement category of age-related microemissions is deemed to be fully payable to the need for special replacements for forwarding. This team of reforms is a pension for those who are young in years when they are diagnosed with disability. The bill presented here suggests that changes in the social assistance requirements of specific extensions will be made to reduce the proportion of remuneration earners that affect the calculation of the specific extension. In this way, the amount of supplementation that she has been exposed to will be called in return to one of the thousands of dollars. Microenergy and rehabilitation donors will therefore, e.g. can increase their employment income without making any special contributions that may reduce a dollar to a dollar, as mentioned. Also, the effect of her age-related disability supplementation is reduced in evaluating whether a pensioner needs special support. In addition, it is the goal of the bill to enhance flexibility in the management of professional pensioners in the calculation of pensions in a way that allowable or temporary employment income only to affect the calculations in the months obtained but not correctly improved in other months. In many cases, it has been observed that the current arrangement seems unfair and may result in reimbursement and reimbursement in the final income of the year. In accordance with local laws, income is used by people who have been evaluated for disability but are skilled, e.g. it does not matter whether a person received a pension in the same months or not. This income may thus result in overpaying debt, but it might be possible to prevent this by counting the individual's earnings only in the months they are paid. In this bill, the change in employment management is proposed. This change, however, may lead to less improvement of the year in some cases than according to current rule. Therefore, a review of the final income of the year is suggested to compare the calculation of monthly spendings relative to 1/12 of sectoral incomes of the year and of the sector in the months obtained and that the rule will be applied that leads to higher expenditures. This guarantees that there will be no less payment for the adjustment to be made. It's suggested that single payment be made, i.e. Orlofs and December improvements, will be excluded from the evaluation of the needs for the specific extension. In addition to what has been described here in the bill, it is suggested that regulations be taken into the law as well as the amount updated. A respectable president. As noted above, changes are mainly aimed at improving the potential for pensioners to increase their income by actively participating in the labour market. Flexibility is increased, and in the form it is today called a dollar that is reduced to a dollar. Is this in accordance with the suggestions for a new system of payment because of lack of working ability to reduce the impact of employment in particular. These are the changes included in the bill so thought as a kind of bridge to a new system of payment because of lack of ability, which will highlight the potential for people to improve their resources by participating in a workforce that will reduce the loss of progress due to income. A bill is expected to be involved, about the change in alimony system. will be submitted to the next legislature, where the score will be larger steps to change the current system. I've finished, but I think I'm sure there'll be answers and more speeches, and I'll try to answer them. I suggest that after this discussion be made available. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u17	A respectable president. We'll discuss a cent against a dollar's decrease. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on what is clearly stated in the law that monthly settlements should not be made valid until first, after the pressures of the public pay 2020. As a result, this will not work well, and calculations will remain the same until then. Something else remarkable about this is just how little is being added. You're kind of surprised. But I want to know if it's not right with me that it's going to be at first 2020. Why can't they do this right away?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u18	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry. For the progressive supplement, which is the first part of this, and it is expected to reach 2.5 billion, this is expected to occur again on January 1, 2019. And once this bill has been approved, the U.S.A. can once corrected, once again, for that loss. Regarding the second act of the bill, which targets this balance, look for months rather than a year, will be carried out at the pressures of 2020, which are due to the year 2019. When you are under pressure 2020, it is done back in time, until 2019, just as the application of 2019 actually does for 2018. I hope this answers a question. Senator. The fact that there is not enough work to be done. Well, we've got 2.9 billion for the budgets of the current year, and this bill assumes that all of them will be spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u19	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. But has a minister calculated what this means? If we look at the amount of money that is being discussed, there are an average recovery of 25,800 k. in months and in micro-energy pensioners, on average 24,470 K. per month. That's a very low number. If we put it in a percentage context, it's that it's kind of just pennies because a lot of people have smaller ones and some have more. As a result, it would be good to be informed by a minister: Has he calculated what those on the average will receive? What do those on the average receive? And what increase is given to those with an average of over average, i.e. what they leave of the wrongs listed here, just about 24,000 bucks.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u20	A respectable president. Of course, it is clear that we have 2.5 billion for our benefit, and when the masses are large, the number is higher. It is also different how much money a person earns, so it is difficult to calculate the individual's case in the future. Of course, we do not know how this will affect the future. Will this mean that those who accept this payment today will be able to get work or not? I think that even if we were going to completely eliminate the damages, which I traced to older citizens, and we're going to have to work together on a new bill, we'll need more. A new labour market is needed. They need a change of thinking, both in public and in public employment markets. It is our next assignment, and it may be the greatest project to make changes in future events.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u21	President. I'm going to leave it to criticize the sums and that we should be going far beyond what is suggested in the bill. I'd rather concentrate on what I've been looking at. It seems to me that there are now three different kinds of impairments. We're talking about a 100% reduction in income from an insurance agency, with the exception that age-related disability improvements decline by 50%, and the decline in other income 65%. We're creating an enhanced complexity in a system that's already very complex. The bill points out that the matter has been introduced at a meeting with Iceland's Scaring Association. I wondered: " When I went out to figure out how to use this coin and how it would look, that reduction in a dollar to a dollar was made, had some dealings with the Silicon Coalition, was worked with them, and other stakes in this change? Or was it entirely part of the Ministry with no help?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u22	A respectable president. First about the complexity of the system and the decline in general, that's exactly why we're going to the next council suggest a change in social security systems. As with older citizens at the time, so simplicity is needed. I agree with what. A senator that it is important to simplify the system, and it was the task of this task force to look for ways to build a new supply system for simplicity. As for the processing of this case, it seems that there is a short period since the staff returned, and we wanted to introduce it to the council at the spring council, that there was no way to enter a confidentiality and so on. But it was introduced at a meeting with the Corporate Community. In fact, when it comes to this bill, it can be said that in a physical sense, the impairments and the two major factors were also covered by this requested group. Come and see me to speak inside that the staff proposed these changes. But from then on. I think I know and think that it was discussed in the Assembly Hall, including... of what? Ásmundur Friðriksson, who pointed out that the suggestions presented here were discussed in the collaborative group. [[The president calls.]] But in due to time, this case has not gone into a normal consultation course and such, but I hope that it will still be possible to resolve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u23	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I understand that this step was correctly spoken of by the team of consultations, to remove a cent, or to reduce the decrease, but it was never discussed in any detail. I'll assume the transfer was done at the Ministry. Perhaps it would have been better, though time was short, to work on this better conversation. This will always prevent people from being angry or disappointed with such things. I can see that this is a step in the right direction, although it is not far enough at all. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further because we're taking this case into account at a social committee meeting this afternoon. I understand the Ministry is coming to us, which is very good. Of course, we will try our best to get the case going, and hopefully before the end of the council, because even if it's a chicken step, it's a legal step. But I encourage ministers to go further when these laws are being revised, which are good and good, and they bear in mind that we need to move forward to eliminate these impairments completely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he agree? Don't we have to go further and replace this whole system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u24	A respectable president. I think that there is absolutely clear evidence that it has been a debate for an organization of interest, such as the Quantum Community, to disqualify a dollar in return to a dollar. I don't think there's anything new there in this bill. We are simply suggesting exactly what has been in the political debate here in the Senate hall ever since I became a minister where every week the question is, When will I step up to the loss of a penny? They're taking it here. It also follows, and I traced it on my case, that after the conference group concluded and we began to complete this bill - there was a discussion in the conference that he wanted to suggest, but then the conclusion was that a minister would do it - I thought very important to try to bring this matter into the assembly at this spring assembly. It follows that it has not gone through a normal consultation process, as I did in my case. It also follows that if a health - care committee is going to finish the matter, she will have to work fast and well in this regard. [[The president calls.]] But I completely agree with it. A senator, in my history, traced it to the fact that we need to simplify our system as were done by older citizens. [[The president calls.]] This will be suggested in a new bill to be submitted to the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u25	Mr. President. I'm going to be very critical of the sums of this bill. Sixty-five dollars across the way the minister now announces - I assume this is not a random choice but to make this unintelligible and incomprehensible. I suggest that it be reformed and that it is two-thirds against a crown. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How much will this project cost? How much does this bill cost as it is here? This is not shown in the report, and I want to know the total cost of it. I'd also like to know why, the second time this year, is taken to cut microchip at trog. It was done in December. when a donation to them was dropped from 4 billion to 2.9 and is still to be cut down in this same knee. I just want to know what the policy is of attacking this group that can hardly carry a hand for their heads. I'd like to ask a minister what he's going to do about this and when.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u26	A respectable president. To answer the previous question, why? This bill is expected to cost exactly 2.9 billion, which is the budget we have set according to the budget of the current year's budget. In order to make a change to a dollar and 400 million to make changes, we are expected to look at each month and not on the whole year, the latter part of the bill. As a result, there are 2.9 billion dollars for the current year. I want to set things right. A senator when he says that it was cut down at the end of the New Year's Eve to do nothing. That's not true. The increase expected to be 4 billion on top of today's microenergy pensioners was turned into 2.9 billion to the council. This is not a cutback because the amount being given is the one that had it. However, the increase was also due to prices up to 3◯4%, so it was increased to the biofuel population in the current year by 2.9 billion plus 31.74%.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u27	Mr. President. I hear the highest. A minister has learned from a minister of finance who said that projects should not be canceled or delayed but should be moved. Now I hear a minister that, according to the Minister's word, killing a dollar in return will cost 7.5 billion. There is money, chief. Minister, they exist because the part of the Black economy connected with the Airbnb, only that part, is about 8 billion. If the government took steps to collect when paying dues, not new taxes, the secretary would get the rest of this and have rest. It might be good if the government took a firm stand to collect and make good use of such provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this great encouragement. She was so happy that before the president introduced me, I had to join the platform. There's been talk of making changes to the social security system for a long time when it comes to microenergy pensioners. I'm very proud of it. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father, of course, accepted it. paritaprevir Pétur Blöndalur, to lead a company, when the older cities and disability pensioners came, and I am very proud of it, that I may use wording. The senator, that this government is taking a long time to finish what wasn't completed at the time that changes in the social security system to micro-organization workers. It has taken a lot of effort for this group not to run out of it at the time, in the group that was hard to deal with. A senator led. It is a great deal of urgency that the government today takes on the task to complete. A senator led his life and failed to complete his disability pension. I'm proud it's the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, the Extremity Party, the Independence Party, and the Left Green, that's doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u29	Mr. President. There is reason to rejoice over all the steps that are taken to break a crown against the dollar of the impairment. I wish it to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on taking a certain step. But I have to admit that I find that this matter is quite quick to write. I think it's a sign that we're running up to and out of our hands and feet to set aside funds within the year that a minister had not completed and was actually somewhat reduced in all of the year. It has been reported that the cost of the cost of a return date is 2.9 billion a year, so I think it will be up to 6 billion every year in the full year, considering that this is expected to take effect on June 1, it seems to me. The micro-organization system is not simple, in fact, one of the most complex and more complex things, e.g. But the pension system we've put here. Here are a number of benefits, a number of reduced financial heights, and this is still adding more percentages and making pensioners even harder to understand what is to be expected. I simply wondered if it would have been better to do the work this summer, and then I concluded the funding of the permanent change into the next all-manac wound in the micro-organization system rather than bring another stay to the present system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations, which are a fine answer. I think it's important to keep in mind the cost of this being 2.9 billion, of which 2.5 is to reduce a dollar to a dollar, but it is assumed to be back to January 1, so it's 2.5 per year. Regarding the appropriate time to wait, the person standing here has been asked when to take steps to decommission a cent and to make changes in the system. The answer has always been: We're waiting for a group report on a shifting system because we don't want to make changes that don't rhyme with the way we're going to go. The report is now in place, the decision of the greater part of the government is now being made that way. That's why we're making changes here that rhymes with what's going to be in a new system. [[The president calls.]] I don't share that opinion. The senator said we should have waited, but I agree that it was important to wait until we made a decision on the road so that our actions were in harmony with what should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I've always assumed that a key factor in the action to take would be the complete failure of the micro-energy pension system itself, the financial resources and the impairment of percentages, to a stream of simplicity with what was done in the pension system in its time. Sadly, microenergy pensioners remained behind them. Therefore, I fear only, especially in view of the fact that we are working with the government's new financial policy and the probable decline of a financial program because of it, that the government will possibly hide behind the fact that there is simply enough to be done and no need for any further change. We know that the innuendoisation of the micro-organization system that is necessary at baseline will cost considerable expenses, although we also expect it to save with longer-term growth in sectoral farming. I hope there's no reason for fear in me, Mr. President, and I hope to the highest. Minister can convince me of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this, saying: No, there is no reason to do that. That's a good cheek for ya. A senator because we face challenges in the financial affairs that were here last night and until the night. In this case the government has decided to present a bill to the next legislature on the basis of this task force. It's important, and I'll agree with what. Senator, extending changes to the system. We are losing too many young people because of a workforce that will have a future cost, and not only costs but also reduces the quality of life for these individuals and their families. It is important to react, but it is also important to realize that using a new system will cost money. It's how we manage to make changes, e.g. in the labour market, how the government is involved. Will this mean a direct cost, or can we do so within the framework of our institutions and schemes? [[The president calls.]] This work is full and must be completed at the same time as a validation of a new system-based bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u33	A respectable president. We're here on the bill to correct the change in social help laws and the change in social security laws that are responsible for the implementation and management of jobs at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs spoke for just a few moments ago. Perhaps the person standing here does not have a correct and complete understanding of all these changes at this point, ending the matter after being discussed on a welfare committee. That understanding is likely to deepen and grow as it is, but it must tell each story the way it is. The lyrics and the format of the Law are not always easily and easily lost, and they do not fully understand, and even the lawgiver has lost himself in this regard. A respectable president. This bill contains a few steps for justice, but it is too few and too short. It is no more than this, and the image that you see is that unemployment improvements are even substantially higher than disability, unemployment improvements generally thought to temporarily close the gap in employment activities while disability reforms are thought, even the only long term, and that is true of many. The lot of a number of microbes is scraping with low disability, not just a few lossers, but decades, even from a young age or middle - age age to the 67 - year age age age age age age limit. With this bill, there will be no change. The forward-points are not moving, they're totally unchanged, and they're a failure to get rid of the abject society that we think we live in, Iceland. The disability of disabled persons is not raised by a dollar. In fact, those with only disability benefits, which are more than one hit on a dollar in return, still have about $22,000. when they finish paying their taxes, for surely they pay taxes. This is what they have to survive, and some may not reach it. Certainly, it is a positive, respectable president, to reduce the decrease rate due to other biofuels' income from 100%. However, the levels remain too high, i.e. 65% of the revenues for taxes, income as microenergy pensioners are also paid on income taxes or on fiscal taxes. The changes in the social security staging system are still being made because of the lack of ability to work. V.E.G. However, a minister proclaims changes, and measures men's brains, i.e. that these special services will be taken up, as was done in the insurance environment of albino pensioners with several legal adjustments in 2016 when three reforms, pensions, income insurance, and special compensations due to living, were united in one new pension. It has long been expected that calm would occur in this direction against microorganisms, but they have been able to lie in the garden and actually do still. It is not acceptable in a society of well - being. I think most of us would agree that this alone is a concern. This affects people's social and social status. Living in an economic deficiency affects one's health. Anxious person is being treated unjustly. There's no equal here. There's no fair here. This bill, however, stirs a more righteous thought than is needed. A respectable president. In 1st. This bill says that the government's insurance and financial services alone are not included in the income of pensioners and that there are no other regular and legitimate payments for the person if I get it correctly, this bill is legal. On the other hand, the laws still need to be groved and meet with microbubbles very badly. There are many examples, and the descriptions of how the system reacts are not human. I've heard that from the lips of an invalid myself. One example I allow to mention here as a case of disability - yes, I put it this way - this is what happened to him, this invalid, that he and some of his siblings were wiped out of inheritance. There was no high figure for each person, 1.4 million. K. She and her sibling paid up an income tax of about 320,000 dollars. On each occasion, however, the brother and sister had paid their emperor a price, but the microchip was not free of all cases, for insurance agencies paid him about 640,000 dollars. That's when every month we paid at 95,000 bucks. to complete that obligation. We remember what our income was, they were more than 200,000 bucks. per month. Are these the pockets we can be known for stretching? No, I don't think so. In fact, it is in the bill, a respectable president, to find a recalculation, that it is permitted only to include earn-employees in the month they are provided, and that orders to protect the interests of the clients in this regard should be taken in particular. That's fine, i.e. to choose the path most convenient to him. This is an improvement, but only a small step on a long road. This is just professional income, not single payments for e.g. The reviews of special property savings, from a pension fund or, as mentioned earlier, this example shows that the person is emptying his property, his inheritance, or something similar. This sets the account of those who have very little between their hands and who live under these circumstances. It is a special subject of observation, along with many other factors, in an effort to bring about the rightfulness of this association that we need to work hard. A respectable president. The bill will now have its coverage on a welfare committee, and it is important that there be room for careful coverage and observation. The full will is for this to be done by the Committee. There is a small step toward progress, but it is short, and it is a small incentive to obtain sustenance for the group that, at the same time, has the opportunity to do so. It's just a bit of disability that has the potential to do that. The subject of this bill is discussed as the first stage of the change and transformation process. For example, when do those who are desperate ask: " What will be the next steps, when will these things be seen, and when will the dream of improvement be fulfilled? ' What's the picture going to look like? V.E.G. A minister has given us a little insight into it, and hopefully he will succeed in overcoming this in the autumn of his arrival.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u34	A respectable president. A crown across from a dollar's impairment, shall we talk about it? When was it put on? Why a dollar to a dollar's decrease? Yes, after the collapse, there was thought to be a reason to stretch into the pockets of those who were bowing down on their feet in the community. They were also to share in the shock of the nation. It was in the hands of the left categories, the welfare government, which received a dollar in return with the help of all the others. She's been here 10 years. V.E.G. The welfare minister has been talking about the need to simplify it, the system needs to be fixed. The elderly got rid of their burdensome crowns in front of a dollar a while ago. Actually, I wanted to answer the highest. At least for some reason, a welfare minister washed it up in the system, and I couldn't find out. But I ask: Isn't it surprising that only this social group, disability, could not, in any way, pull themselves out of the man - made poverty trap he has completed by going to work? The percentage is reduced to 100,000 times. a month's pay as a part-time invalid may be able to do their damages for them instead of being impaired in the social security system by $50,000, which will be $35,000, more dignified president. Yes, a little step in the right direction, but is this legal? Is it legitimate to go beyond one group of society that is recognized as the poorest society in the country, letting it be one of all of them bearing this deficiency, not just on earth, but probably in the whole solar system? Although we don't know if there is life on other planets, I'd like to doubt that anywhere in the world there is such an idea - inspiring government that it would ever put the same system on its smallest brothers and sisters, with discrimination and violations of all things. I look at all of this, and when you're making new legislation, when you're trying to fix it and go towards claiming that you're doing things a little better, you're actually doing it less illegally, or what? Or is it being tried to cut down a little bit, so that it doesn't hurt quite as much? The larger group of microlooms remain, which has $22,000. In a month's pay, of course, because a respectable president is still taxing a lot of money - of course, but not what? Meanwhile, we watch directors and gentlemen with up to 20 million. K. in a month's pay, and we just think it's okay, don't we? That's what brings up the average for OECD, the millions and billionaires in Iceland who can show the good numbers, how well we do in international comparison. But they find thousands of cripples, with $22,000. paid for a month, they're really good? I'll allow me to doubt that very much. There's one thing that caught my attention when I was looking at this bill, which said that improvements in social security law would be expected, No. 45/2015, will you now be counted to non-employment income, or what? You ask yourself, " What does this mean? ' Is it all of a sudden that counts on accident insurance, in accordance with those social security laws that had not been done before? Is that it? Now that we've just passed, Friday was in the National Court, where we see black in white what's actually being judged, e.g. People with the rights of pension funds. 2.5 billion k. per month. I'll let me throw it out here and now, because I'm not going to delay the discussion, and say, "I'm standing here to fight poverty. I stand here for the society I've been belonging to my whole life. The need to see this disregard for this social group acquiesce and sacredity at the High Council is absolutely unbelievable. I don't think I've been crying since I started crying on the air for the last election day. For one thing, it is certain that these things will be put to the test in judgment. This cannot be legal. That's not possible. A crown against a crown, a poverty trap, discrimination, a violation of equality - it can't be a legitimate, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u35	Mr. President. Even though I am here as president, mixed up in political debates, I do not sit in silence under any mischievous and indiscriminate form. paritaprevir Sæland Goland had about our government, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. It is wrong that that the government took up a crown in return for a crown. What's right is that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir arrived as social minister in particular the pension because of his contributions. It was then a marvelous restoration, and it was improving the favor of the disappointed group, and few seem to remember today. I've come to think a lot about where the organization of the elderly has arrived when virtually no one speaks of the lassé group of members, and all that has to do with the striped pay. As time goes on, and suddenly it is a great injustice that this special replacement on top of the other system's general payments - yes, was certainly connected with income and was contrary to other revenues because they were trying to use limited resources to assist the lastrated section of the group. You only have to know things before they take in big words. While I'm in Congress and I have free speech, I don't sit in silence for this kind of thing. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, one of the greatest social ministers of this nation, has a different and better separation from her sexes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. 2.m. That's the north side. I suppose he could tell me when and where to send a cent in return. It might be a pleasure, and I'd love to, first of all. This is how a senator makes it clear that what I'm reading here is wrong, that he corrected it right here and now, and then he tells me when to meet a dollar's degree and who to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u37	In my case, it was clear that when this replacement is inserted into the system, a clean addition to the system's general payments, it's a harvest, it's additional funds into the system to help the drop part of the group. In fact, the same thing happened with various payments into the social security system to the elderly. In this way, such income - related payments began, being supplemented with too little of the system's general payments in an effort to direct limited funds to the worst. What is their speech today, when all the discussion has become about having all the money they should pay out of the social security system, even without regard to the amount of money they earn? Are they really there? And where is the compromise for improving their status? I'm gonna support this bill, of course. It's good to slow down this massive income connection and be motivated by the system. However, I ask myself, " If we are measuring 2.9 billion or 4, would something of that have been meant to go to the rest of the assigned group? ' Because it's not him. This is the group that has other incomes and is now holding more of the social security system or social assistance laws through these changes. Yeah, that's good, and we want the system to be encouraging. But where are the advocates of all of them lost?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for answer. It is quite clear, however, that those who imposed this impairment were trying to prevent them from coming back to work. In case of a moment. A senator has not noticed that I am standing here as the advocate of those who are locked by their feet, I do not know if that is because of the reason. A senator, though blind, has become deaf. However, it cannot be said that those with $22,000 will have it. and could possibly go to the labour market, they're being held in there with this impairment system. What we're looking into right now, though I'm going to be the nature of the matter according to a vote with these hunger lice, it is so, as my fine fellow minister Guðmundur Ingi made it so well by yesterday: instead of kicking three times in it, we'll do it twice. Of course, nothing has been done for the others, and it has evidently been made manifest in this symposium. One with $22,000. This month's pay does not receive a single cent for its legal correction on January 1, which I also believe has always been broken in these last few years because they have only been allowed to follow the index price of consumers instead of being allowed to comply with the financial development of the country. But that it was corrected in this high council or that something was done in it or that something over our heads listened to what we've been saying - the answer is simply: No, it hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u39	The president asks the senators to be moderate in their choice of words, even though he or she may be a guest. ... inthecool.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u40	A respectable president. I'm just gonna get involved in some of the words that were going on and say that's right to the highest level. A president or a w... paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke in his case earlier. I've traced it before in speeches that the thought behind this progressive process at the time was trying to reach a group that had nothing else. Since then, the discussion has changed, and people have talked about being overcrowded because their thinking was reaching out to those who were totally teased. I think the discussion has even. Achieving in that direction is because we see a high rate of disability, and we need to encourage people to go to work. We need to put increased motivation into the system for this, but it's a challenge. It will be a challenge to build a new bill on the basis of this group of workers how we will ensure that the lowest nonemployable group is not affected. That's what we're doing now with the elderly. In cooperation with an older citizen's National Association, the Department of Social Services works for a bill to cover the worst of the population there, to direct certain resources to the worst, and will have to put down some restrictions so that it's not for everyone, just as it was with the forwarding in its time, so we'll be able to control the population at its worst. We want to direct the money there because if we raise all toward older ones, it will also move to those who do not need it. We want to direct the money to the worst, have at least the rights of the system, even live alone in rent markets, etc. [[The president calls.]] We do this by placing some limitations around it. I think it's extremely important to keep this in mind, that we can't do it unless we put some fence around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Good Minister for the counter-regulated. I'd like to wonder how much money we've put into all kinds of control groups and all kinds of committees that are supposed to put a frame around how to check the microchip into the system we're building them, it's building the poverty trap system they're living in. I wondered how much money there is behind it as I wondered what might be a barrier that the invalid can personally evaluate the town he is working for. What, then, can be done to further their activity and invite them to join the workforce? What, then, can be done to eliminate the damage so that the payment will be in the form of taxes into our common fund? What, then, is a position, a respectable president, to look to the countries around us that we so would like to compare ourselves with, such as. Sweden, who tried this exactly a few years ago? And if you know, more than 30% of all those who tried at work on the grounds that they were intact for a certain period of time did not return to the improving system. How sad is it, most respectable president, to hear forever about the growth of microorganisms, of the incidence of disability indefinitely? Why? What Is the Root Cause? Why not try to examine it and find it out? Is that something in our community? Why do our young people feel so bad? What's the primary objective, where's the incidence of disability in Iceland today? There are other options that I see, a respectable president, except to sit as someone who is always sitting behind a desk and check my smallest brothers and sisters, and put them on some impairmental frame, or try to share these and the only dollar while someone else doesn't get anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u42	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. The senator was, in effect, the best argument for the results of the group that we need to make changes to the social security system. You're right. A senator says, we need to achieve changes in order to reduce the loss of young people into disability, so our community encourages them to move into the workforce. That's why we're suggesting a change in our social security system. Based on the incidence of disability, we can see that predictions are that the amount of money that goes into the disability money goes from 41 billion in 2016 to 90 billion 2030 if nothing was done because it's increasing in there. We'd like to make some changes, but at the same time, we'd like to provide the quality of life that cannot attend a workforce, which is not possible to create special parts, etc. That's what I was saying back there. How can we reach that group and at the same time be motivated? I think that was the thought of it at the time with the progressives. Talk about what's going on. A senator at the moment. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon turned to the argument for the progressive supplement that was designed to cover the group that had nothing else and was unable to make money. Deforestation had no effect on that group, but at the same time, we need to be motivated so that people can see their best worth in going to the workforce. Although it's consistent in some way, it's also a little different, and that's why we need to make changes in the social security system to the future and our support system of everything, because we want to cover both groups. I think I know what we're doing. A senator doesn't agree so much on these issues, and I'd like to ask him why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u43	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer, chief. Minister of Social Affairs. Secure those who have no better supplies, says the top. Minister. How? Do they know how to do this? The poor cannot wait for righteousness, but they are yet waiting. There's not gonna be a cent to correct it. They don't even follow biographies or anything, nothing. They don't have anyone to negotiate for them. They don't get one dollar. When we are talking about 48 billion now, we will likely be 90 billion, which we will need to pay for this high - energy burden, as we often call it, the micromaths, in 2030. Why not step outside the box, chief. Minister, and try something new? Has this system, this man - made failure system, not proved what it does for this group of people? Don't you think it's time for action, a completely altered system review? [[The point is: It's a different matter.]] I say, that's not what they're doing. There is no revolution or radical change in the system. 2.9 billion are precisely assigned to reduce a dollar to a dollar, 65 dollars to one dollar, which, as it says, is two thirds against a dollar. So I say, we can agree on that, tops. Minister, that there is a great need to be taken care of here. But this is not what I would have wanted to see, unfortunately, and completely disappointed me. But as I say, these are things that I think are unfair and unfair and I don't believe they should be. That's why they're going to test the whole circle. We will never give up on seeking righteousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u44	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize social support and social security laws, employment reforms and management, social and child-friendly ministers. I want to thank the Minister for this bill that I think is a very good step in the direction we're headed. I don't have to start repeating all the points mentioned in the discussion, what's been said here. It's unworked to do it, and I'm not going to drag the old sophta to a flotto and go to some theory game. I've never had time for that in this chair. I'm going to try to stick to the thinking that was part of the committee that I and others had. The members of Steinunn Þóra's Year's Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson were in the same room as other good people who discussed the ability to work. It was shown in recent debates that there is a need to look for new ways to improve the benefits and to improve the work of people with limited energy and ability. I think that's the way we need to go. The Committee discussed a new assessment, which, in fact, did not receive very good from the Quantum Community and others, although much of it would, in their opinion, be an improvement, in particular an idea of taking up flexible jobs for individuals with impaired skills. It is an enormously important task of this law, and it is based on the belief that the labour market will take over and expand its work. How important it is that we believe that the workforce is ready to receive people with limited skills! We need to prove this. There, countries and communities need to take the lead and hire people in part - time jobs. I'd like to make up the subject of Analytica's report on the job participation of people with limited ability and permission of the highest level. President, please refer to the report that I believe is a subject of the discussion here. We can agree that this is important in the work we were working in this group. It is quite clear that it has not only an economic impact on people's working ability to do business but also an impact on their lives. They have gained a better life by reaching the workforce. We all know those who work around such people. I would like to quote Analytica's report, where the key criteria and calculations are set out in a system of credit flows that shows the benefit or cost to all groups as well as to the whole. The conclusion is that the direct economic impact of increasing the work programme of people with impaired function is considerable and occurred. to the treasure of the state, and to the provinces, but most to the poor. In terms of financial expenditure, there is an additional expenditure of 4 billion per year on the basis of 2019,2032 that now amounts to an additional cost of 42.3 billion. In turn, tax revenues, which are now worth 15.2 billion on a base film and today the benefits of a community of 9 billion. The modern benefit of disability is at least 50 billion. That's all we're talking about, you know, crowns and pennies. We are not talking about the health that comes from getting into the job market and participating in it. It was also surprising at the Committee's work that, in addition to this, there could be a direct economic impact through increasing labour markets and an increase in efficiency as a result of this and an increase in national production of up to 0.391% of the land production spending between eight and ten years according to the set. That is not all Analytica pointed out. It is not only that workers with impaired ability can go to the job market and do their assessments but that the drug cost of this group will be completely reduced. According to the report, over an eight-year period, the drug cost for the group would be estimated to be 33% lower. There we are talking about billions of value, billions of dollars. It has to say to itself that if our vision expands and the people are going to gain additional skills and thus become, in effect, a vast wealth of money from a government fund, it must include the improvement in this group's interests. The work and the work presented by the Committee was that the bill presented here was introduced to the committee in December. and it's finally come out here. I don't think that's clear enough in the discussion that it's over again since 1st January. so that the treatment of decommissioning a penny in front of a cent is also a big step, though we might have liked it to be bigger. However, this is a step in the direction you have been requested. I am very happy for us at the Committee that fought for us to start this countdown, and especially that the flexible potential of the work being proclaimed here can be tremendously useful to microorganism, which, during periods, may be one extra step to the sea, as the person standing here has sometimes done and recovered himself for extra money, which is only within the month but not within the year. It is a great improvement, and it is also for those who suddenly get sick or injured and who are snatched from their jobs who will not then be judged as earnings in the year that they will receive no compensation from the day they are cut off. All I have to say is that I feel that we are taking a good step toward improving the interests of this group. I am grateful to the Minister for performing this bill now. I trust that by all means they will try to speed it up through the welfare committee as far as possible. This matter is clear. The groups that have access to this matter are quite familiar. They don't need long introductions, they don't need long reviews. The committee is to be able to deliver this in a very short time. So that the matter will be completely resolved by the end of Congress, under no circumstances can a health committee delay it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for an excellent speech. He went over a wide range of areas where this matter was discussed with the removal of a crown from a dollar to a dollar. The step presented in this bill is a fine pay, but the coal has been warmed up, and it has been asked, "Why can't we go all the way? " The answer, of course, is too much cost and so on, but I thought the senator would handle it in his speech as to what this delicate matter has been approaching, such as. Governments and rural communities meet more people with limited ability to provide them with employment. I know it only around me that it has come out very well and helped people find themselves, earn money, and free from the bondage of not, as was sometimes said, to the benefit of society. People get to feel themselves all over again and feel much better. Similarly, the senator at the expense of medicine and so on. I'd like to ask the senator, because I can totally agree that this is a step in the right direction: Can the senator imagine how much longer we will need to do so completely to meet this challenge? Is the senator a good prophet's ability to foresee the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u46	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Of course, it is very important to create the work that this group of people can do. It must appeal to the local and rural institutions, especially to the commercial world. We know that there are many of the services involved, and we know that these people can perform various forms of service, take up all kinds of jobs. It is fun at work, and it is upbuilding for all of us to create the necessary setting. I myself know how to be a part of a small workplace where ten people do recycling, and they weigh 115 million. K. every year. These people are doing tremendous benefits throughout the community. Regarding this population approximately 6,500 microorganists living on this loan, a dollar to a dollar - when are we going to finish taking it off? I think it's important that we do it as soon as possible. Well, we should have already done that, but the promise is now: As soon as possible. I can't schedule it, but I think it's very important that when the assessment is done, we'll end by removing this incredibly unjust tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u47	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I agree that this is an unjust tax on which it was imposed with bad necessity at the time. It is often so that when taxes are imposed, or fees for which they are due, they want to be attached because for some reason they keep the State in all such compensations as long as possible. That is why I asked: " How long can the senator imagine in this? How long will it take to finish this matter? ' Is that not ten years or more? It's a long time in people's lives. Although I had wanted to see this go all the way, I can find joy in myself at this step. It has been waiting quite a long time, but this ice has now been broken. All that encourages work, all that motivates people to share in the daily life, has improved, and, of course, can improve. That's why I hope that we can work out by getting people to be more active. Of course, some part of people are sick that people cannot accept that help and need full relief, and that is what may not have, as it has just happened, come up with a lot of discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u48	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I agree with what's been said, of course, there's always some group that won't be able to go into the job market. Therefore, it is expected in the work group that special biofuels will be paid when the result of basic assessment or integrated expert assessment is that the person is unable to participate in a labour market or the staff is very limited. That's accepted in our new bill. When are we going to complete a cent's decommission? You could say that with this, it's over. Now there's no more dollars in return for a dollar. [[Foreground on: No.]] We've taken that step, and I think we should celebrate. Although one has ever participated in some theory game, I don't have time for it in the council to drag an old sophta to the float. There's so much else you need to talk about in this bag, so I'm gonna try to keep it as little as possible. I agree with what's been said here, it's important to go into these changes and a new environment for these people in a careful and soft way. It will take years to change this system. This is the significant change that she will take very many years, in my opinion. It'll be good for you. As we have seen in the discussion, we need to look in new directions to resolve matters. To increase the income of these people, we need to look in new directions. It is in the ideas presented here. They're taking the first steps on the bill that is presented here, and I think we can at least say we're on the right track. That way is right ahead of her, and hopefully she'll be short.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u49	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but I'd like a talk to celebrate this phase. I consider it a phase to be put forward a bill that begins to reduce the reductions that have been much under discussion and that are called a dollar to a degree. I believe that with the input of the bill, an important step is taken and the highest. Minister has even. In this afternoon's discourse that further revision and more detailed than this, including the simplicity of the dinner system, will be implemented at the next assembly. I can't wait to deal with it. However, the matter has grown to such an extent that it should be settled in the council for a long time. For what? welfare committees include two members of a special committee by the Ministry, which considered the matter, so that knowledge is there for the issue to be settled. I think that's what. The welfare committee should be able to handle this matter rapidly and effectively. However, it is with regard to perimeters or those who could land on the order in the system that he specifically mentioned the need to check and cross, and I believe that representatives of the Ministry and Insurance Office will be able to help the committee get a clear picture of the situation. In the bill, the decision to distribute all this almanac year of this money, the 2.9 billion available, is positive and is good to see that money goes to work all year long. That is why it is very important to finish the matter now, this spring council, rather than push it forward until the fall, for it is because mine knows absolutely no reason to leave those who will enjoy the extra favors that come to us for the bill's sake to wait for no reason. But I agree with what. A senator and a chief. President Jóhann Sigfússon's Steingrímur, mentioned earlier in opposition to the fact that, of course, this change does not make much of a change for all of them and does nothing for them. However, I hope that there will be a bill announced by the minister before, that it will be considered in particular how to continue to support those in the community who are disappointed and have no other means of earnings. At least I look forward to that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u50	Mr. President. It is offensive to the case and to the group that the matter is being made clear right now. It's not the Central Party to blame, so to speak, because it's the president of the council who has the program. I'm going to start by wishing to the highest. A minister of happiness and of the whole government by finally finding the most likely group to accept added burdens now that the government's financial policy has begun. I think it is well chosen by the government and the counsellors to attack the group that cannot bear the hand of their heads. I must say, it's a great man, and they're picking a suitable opponent. The highest severity has been observed. Minister to correct a dollar in exchange for 100% at that price. I noticed the minister, that I have a webmaster last night, and he corrects me if it's wrong, that there's no further going on because there's no money. In other words, 65 dollars in return are because there is no money. In fact, I pointed out in the opposite direction that there is money. There are money that is not collected, tax revenues that are not collected. It's been discussed, including. it was shown by Central Party budgets around Christmas, that it is the firm opinion of those who collect the funds of state that by improving their resources there, both with the head of the state tax and with the tax investigator, each man, will not pay ten times as far as he can, but to a certain extent, in the improved collection. Actually, it's also true to remind me that this number has gone up through the last year, but it's not safe to say that 1% collectback is 7 billion. That's about it. What it takes to correct this matter once and for all. I've said that it might be tempting because these 65 bucks against a dollar are trying to make it a point so that it's hard to say and hard to understand, so I suggest that we talk about this about two-thirds of a cent. Why are people now trying to prevent this society's most vulnerable group from reaching out for any extra capacity? Why have humans not used the time to give up? You see, there's been some time. V.E.G. A minister correctly pointed out earlier that a committee had been directed by the committee some years ago that had not solved this issue. That is correct. The results of the committee were not in harmony. There weren't anyone there who'd set microchip against the wall and said to them: " If you don't do this, you're not gonna get anything. There was no one in it at the time. This may be the change now because a new committee has just returned. In fact, I think she's turned her back on some of her differences, too. Perhaps this is the prize the desperate are getting now for not accepting the employment assessment without protest, that they receive the prize of receiving only 35% of what they should receive. That may be so. It could be quite like the government. The point is, this act of disability is naturally shameful. It has been pointed out, and it was pointed out with the elderly as well, just in the Middle Party budget last year, that simply saying that employment does not dishonor pension incomes, it would be to introduce a point that, when it all came down, would not cost a government fund anything. It's the same with this one. It is being passed on to 35% of microsurgents, which are naturally sufficiently taxed, of course, with a third of it coming back. The government's princely rule will face all odds and will be remembered for a long time. I'm not sure when it all comes to saying that I trust to support this matter. I just think it's too bad to do that, and I can't imagine that it can in itself change someone's situation to get those charitys. Sometimes, with President's permission, people are called to piss off their fists. That's exactly what they're doing. It's just a bunch of micro-punching shit being pulled out of your fist. That is what the government does and is delighted to see. I have to spoil that joy because it's not fair. There's no need to do this like this. It would have been very good to fulfill what the second chapter of the report, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is essential that we respond to it in the first place, then - i.e. A cent in return - ◯ by reducing the rate of earning a pensioner, which affects the calculation of the exchange. This is so weak - the need to respond to it in part instead of simply responding. This is indistinguishable, and this is probably the most significant thing in the micromortality group that now counts anywhere between 16,000 and 18,000 people, if I recall correctly. It would have been in the palm of the hands of the people to correct the matter by showing puny, puny humanity. But this in itself is only salt on the wound because, of course, people began taking 4 billion who had been left over on this project, and they cut down to 2.9 billion on the budget. There they again found the same wide sheets, and they will be able to add now and again to their backpacks by making such a statement. Mr. President. To tell you the truth, I don't understand the point. It is long known, and it was also known when the committee was active that the one here directed in part and it is likely four years ago or so, that the position of this group was delicate and difficult and that men could not wait for this correction. Then, in fact, it even stood up. A member of the hall said: "The least poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice. I couldn't agree more with that. A senator and now the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who made this statement during a discussion likely in 2017. In itself, the situation of the group we are talking about now has not changed in the sense that the group is better equipped to wait for justice for a while, unless less, because, if anything, the situation of this group has deteriorated. There has also been an increase in him. They speak of it, though in the days of flags, that people should not be trapped in poverty. Yet, there is a step in that direction, e.g. in this matter. Sadly, the words spoken during the festival days - whether June 17, sailor's day, or something else - are of little value. No, it's not great, really. That is why I would have directed it to those on the welfare committee -- now I'm correct, and it's usually done badly and the bad things that come in here in 15 to three and over against them at zero one, they're not supposed to have any discussion, no publicity on a committee, and they don't look for visitors. I hope so. The welfare committee takes the matter very seriously and makes significant changes, e.g. by dropping this 65 dollars so that a dollar against a dollar will be no more. I got it. I got it. A welfare committee to arrange for many visitors to discuss the matter. I encourage her to call for the leadership of the Quantum Community, as it is, and speak to a representative of disability, directly from that description of the situation one more time. I don't think I could help. Or it may be good for the committee to call it the highest. Minister to see the committee, even at the same time as, for example. The president of the Quantum Community, and to see if they can't get a clear description, including a minister, of what this situation is and what the status of this group of the poorest people in Iceland is. It might be nice - it's in English, but I don't want to do it, Mr. President. It is said that men would wake up at a clock, and people might wake up if they met at a meeting with more of the leadership of the Microcracy League so that they could form opinions about it in the leadership of the North American Community how they can use all the money they are about to draw into the wilderness. It must really remember that. I haven't been able to hear it exactly or whether I didn't notice in the report what this means in a month. I suppose this could go on one Tuesday at Dominospite offer, looks like. I don't think there's gonna be much left behind, but the offer contains two gallons of soda, so maybe it's not as bad as you're painting it up. In short, there is shame that this is not to be corrected once and for all. That's what they're capable of. It will also help the state funds, exactly as it would help the state funds to allow microdoers to work without being held off by a fair market. I would like to use this opportunity in the first place to challenge a minister to make a change in the case, even to pull it back and bring it back tomorrow, with 65 pennies gone and this being suggested that this impairment be taken off at one time. Second, I reiterate my encouragement to the committee to review the matter carefully and make the necessary adjustments so that the matter can be accepted with a good conscience, preferably by a roll call. I think it would be very effective if the case was to be changed so that this impairment would be removed once and for all time. That's what there is, there's money to it, it's been pointed out. In itself, there is nothing in itself that can be done only in small talk and a little honesty and harmony. That's all it takes to take this case that's not good, making it possible to accept it reasonably.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's juncture speech on this subject. It will not surprise the people here. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson or his company will support this case. What I wanted to ask you. A senator, I didn't really mean to get into it, but first I did. A senator himself began to talk about the committee he was taking the lead in his day. I am curious about why the committee gave up that time. When I came to this matter as Minister of Social Affairs, there was no discussion with the Quantum Community on the direction that the committee, as a matter of course, had. A senator led, including to, to have a work programme and to change the social security system. Why did he give it to you? A senator at his time has a discussion with the Quantum Community? Why was it not suggested in the report that some measures would be taken in the case of microorganism at the time? Right from the time, when divorce was taking place, a conscious decision was made to separate the smallest citizens of this country, the microenergy donor, from the fact that they were not ready to agree with the quality of their ability to work and to change the social security system. Why did it take so long? A senator's decision at the time to leave this group entirely behind? It's not surprising. A senator now gets angry when the government has taken this group for granted. A senator left behind at the time and intends to take the first step toward decommissioning these impairments, then intends to change the social security system and simplify it, as mentioned. At the time, the senator could not produce the outcome. [[The president calls.]] The resentment is completely obvious. But I would like to know why the decision was made at that time to leave this group behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u52	Mr. President. There is no resentment in this body. If a minister wants to hear the answer, I can repeat it: There is no resentment in my heart except that this is not done in the way of people, that they should only take it once and for all. Why did they give up? It was not in itself, so to speak, but the matter was that the committee's work was withdrawn for probably two and a half months while looking for a broad agreement and a broad pool of cooperation on the work of the committee. Sadly, it did not succeed for reasons that may arise later. However, it did so that a member of the committee would rebel against that union, unfortunately. It was strongly emphasized that this happened, but it did not work. About why this group of people were left behind, after reaching this conclusion, I have to point out, in effect, the highest. A minister should speak to his predecessor in office then placed on the minister's throne because she accepted the case after the committee had returned. And it was not the decision of the Committee not to have discussions with the Quantum Community. It was the decision of the Quantum Community, if I recall correctly. I don't think the Minister of the jury at the time had much opportunity to approach that group. Happily, a new committee was formed. There they put pressure on and held, and, in fact, they still hold, hostage in this matter. [[The president calls.]] It may well be a better approach, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u53	A respectable president. Named why. The senator made clear to this group because the group was not prepared to do what the committee's leadership wanted him to do. Then the committee returned empty and has not been done for this group since then because it was made consciously. Why did the commission not suggest anything to micro-life pensioners at this time, as if it were a rough one? A senator now insists on walking all the way over and taking care of the impairments, etc.? But he did not suggest it at his time. He deliberately decided to leave this group behind. That's why there's a lot of talk going on. A senator who is spoken in circles. I feel sad because I thought that the senator should be able to rejoice over the step being taken instead of staying with the old resentment that has not reached the end of the 2016 matter. I'm so sad that we can't celebrate this phase right now. That's why they talk. A senator, speaking of a little circle of the matter, said that after that he should go all the way to eliminate the damage, when he himself suggested to the old people that the damages only go to 45 bucks in return. So, what do we call it? We can't call it a third to a dollar. There must be more than one third, or less than half a dollar. Why does the senator not simply bring us on this positive journey with a view to reducing these errors and improving the interests of this group that he left behind in his day? I think we can all agree that these steps need to be taken. I think we can also agree that there is a need to change the social security system. Unfortunately, I don't feel likely, as I started this answer to say, well. A senator will come out of this resentment and will support us in this regard. I believe he'll be on the red button and maybe it's just a good sign on the subject, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u54	Mr. President. I can hear everything at the top. Since 2016, a minister has not read the report of the Committee, so after this talk, I will probably have to re-establish myself and read the report to the minister so that he will hear it just directly how the report sounded and how the case was handled. [[Flmrh.And read...]] He's here with claims that don't meet, unfortunately, but there's nothing new. Of course, there is room for straw. I have no doubt that it would be more comfortable for the Minister if the person standing here lay on his years with him. [[Up front.]] Maybe it would make something move, but I... [[Up front.]] V.E.G. President. Can the Minister Be Controled? If I hung up with the minister, I'm sure I'd be doing well, but this magazine shows that we're at the top. Ministers are not rowing in the same direction. [[Up front.]] I want to go all this way because it's possible, because now's the time, it's time. Of course, the minister can wander around the conference hall and have some boy's straw. It has nothing to do with anyone, except perhaps the highest. A president who's supposed to have a good turn. But it does not improve the situation unless it does not. If there's some quality label on the government case that the Central Party is against them, we'll just take over the quality management. There's no problem, and it's not gonna help. It is typical that this will take on the deck of the advance minister, who has broken all his ships, and has joined all his campaigns. This isn't much of a document, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] But I still have seven seconds left. President must...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u55	Wait a minute. A senator's apologies. There's discrepancies in the management system, which is not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u56	A respectable president. We have witnessed the dramatic discussion of the progress and treatment of employment, a case of the highest magnitude. Department of Social Affairs and Children's Ministers just submitted. Anecdotes of long ago have come forward, and the saddest part of this is perhaps when the explanation of history comes from men who have lived here in the Kingdom of the Generals and are trying to explain what it's like to be in the black-hole of the micromath. There's the sky and the sea between us. At the time of the special remuneration, I was at these steps, and I know exactly what things were then. During that time, the pension was reduced during the collapse, and in those days microorganism and older citizens were promised that the first thing to be done would have to be raised. Sadly, that was not possible. The skinting hasn't been corrected. The Council of U.S. Council raised its members again and again. The poor and the elderly did not receive any of it. Retrospective increases have never been observed for micro- or older citizens. Let us consider this subject. However, before that, I will point to what may be the most surprising thing about this council recently, the claim that they are always thinking about the poor. Then we have to take it into account that by the end of the New Year, laws went into effect by half of the time. Two microchips with 60,000 dollars. a month we may get an 0 out of his pension fund. These two pension funds are brought to those who do not need it, high-priests. They're giving a pension payment for one of the high-payers. Let's keep in mind that this is going on today. That's why it's incomprehensible. What should we say about this subject? Yes, it was supposed to be very simple, so there was no supposed to be 65 pennies against a dollar. They were simply supposed to combine reform parties, disability pensions, income insurance, and special compensation. This was done with the pensioners. It's the simplest case, and now they're arguing about it. Why was this not done on the last committee, Blöndalur Böranals? I was there. What about the Þrstein Commission? I was there. Yes, because it was due to be cremated by microorganism. Happily, they were not made because the food that was to be included in the men of the St Pétur Blöndalur Committee and the Thorstein Committee was worse than the food that was done in England at the time and that has cost a large number of people their lives. There is the sky between what was done there and what we did on that last committee. It's just gotta be held back. We really tried. You're talking about not agreeing. Of course we have to accept this. There is nothing else because no matter how little it is, each dollar counts, unfortunately each dollar is worth a fortune. We must also realize that this is a small amount as I have pointed out. The average monthly call is about 23,000 and it's sort of incomprehensible that we should put up with it today because if we consider the statistics, there are 400 men and 850 women. The number of women is twice that of men. If we're taking disability pensioners, there are 2,480 men, 4,040 women, still about twice as many women. Where's the equality? Where are the feminists? Where are the women? Why do they let this happen? Now, that's one of the women who's being taken care of the pension fund. That's what we're supposed to focus on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk I watched on a TV screen outside the hall. Where we're at. A member of the same committee both wanted me to ask him to review with me why this committee's work in 2016 did not result in the role of disability in reviewing the social security laws. In the end, the conclusion is familiar. A member of the Parliament, saying that a member of the Department of Social Affairs used some special talks to take the lead in trying to meet in some way an invalid in the postwar committee? As I remember this case, and why. A senator corrected me if I am mistaken, the committee's work was drawn for a few weeks, likely up to eight weeks, in the hope that the same work would not work together, and that is why I want to know if the Supreme Court is. the then social minister of the Ministry for the Future has taken the lead in trying to correct an object of disability thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to say, unfortunately, I don't know the answer to the question. I had not yet entered the Qualified Community or for survival, as I was later. What I remember in this context from these committees is that the difference between this committee and the other committee was that of the St Pétur Blöndalur Commission, that they get half a pension and then go to work as they would like. Then there was no rehabilitation in the equation. It was just a job that was, of course, terrible because, at that time, people were being half-messaged. Sadly, it has to be said as it is that it was a child of its own time. Sadly, those were not wise suggestions. The best thing in this situation and the only right thing was to do just the exact same thing to micro-organism that was done to older citizens. Of course, it says itself that it is basically incomprehensible in the whole context that it is now two and a half years since older citizens received a cent against the decrease. The Kingdom has been saving itself, according to numbers it gave up itself, nearly 30 billion, and it is going to put 3 billion into it. It's a disgrace. As we say, the desperate are in an ideal way that they can in no way refuse to accept any hungerer. Every dollar, as I've said before, is important, only to survive until the end of the month. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I agree with him, and since then I have demonstrated that half of the cases would be wrong. They were not well put in place, so I have simply changed my mind on this matter. That's why I've talked about, not just now, but since I've been back in council 2017, that, of course, this is not supposed to be the case with my own financial resources, whether it's a pensioner or an invalid. It is money that people pay back taxes, and it is the government's reward for trying to earn extra power. There's an extra thing going on, the main thing is natural it, and I hope it does. A senator agrees with me that individuals are as active as possible, and that as a result, individuals get more alive, that instead of being condemned to isolation, they are active members of society, and therefore can participate in daily life as much as they wish, can and are capable of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him, we can keep it really simple. We're supposed to let the micromangers work and we're supposed to allow, as we were talking about in this system, people working in the average income of the workplace where the person is working before something gets cut off because as soon as the desperate workers work, we've reached a limit. As I have always said, there is a very widespread misunderstanding that there is some paradise in the position of the invalid. There is no paradise. Nobody wants to be in that position, people are forced to be in there. That's why I say that we have an obligation to make sure that all these traps are taken away, which restrict the need for desperate men to have a decent way of living.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u61	Mr. President. I come up here to describe the support of the bill as the highest. Department of Social Affairs has proposed a change in social services and social security laws. This case is about reducing the severity of forwardation, i.e. to reduce the impact of reduced damage into dural extensions which is one of the cut-off types in the social security system. It's very good, and this is a point that I think all political parties put emphasis on. I hear it during the conversation in the hall that some have wanted to go further on that subject; yet, this is what everyone has agreed to be important. I hope, therefore, that the entire body of Congress will unite to see that this step will be taken. It was important to me that the discussion earlier today made sense to me. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask crossed the way in which reform groups of specific reforms were instituted in Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir as social minister. It was extremely important to bring in the benefits to ensure the position of those with the lowest income in the social security system. It was so done in the history of the left administration after a collapse that it served as a protection for the relief party and thus for the best of the few. This was an important factor because, of course, it matters when it comes to protecting those who have the best interests at heart. I thought it was important. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, secretary of finance of the left government, was to be kept in place because this has a tendency to melt and be forgotten. It is also true that there was a 100% decrease in the improvement rate at that time, with massive unemployment and a lack of effort to get a job. That's where I believe the government had done absolutely right in its time. However, after I arrived at the council, I have also pointed out that in changing economic conditions, it should be adjusted to have a 100% reduction rate of that score and this is taking the step to take it down to 65%. I'm celebrating it, and I think it's a great improvement. There's another thing in my bill that I'm incredibly happy with as a result of calculating that when it comes to the calculation of the specific amount of biofuels, the process of execution, it should be counted only as a half of the age-related disability. This is a factor that will matter for those who go into disability very young and therefore have not had the opportunity to earn a job market rights. This is a point that I'm very happy that this relief group has not worked in the system as it does now. This is some sort of fix-up and getting fixed in a very good way. I believe this bill is a very important step in making it possible for us to change the social security system. I have been engaged in the committee that has discussed changes in the social security system, and with me on that committee was a reason. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. There were also representatives of the National Institute of Environment and Development, ASI and the workforce. I'd like to say it here in connection with this bill that work on that committee and the debate in that committee about the purpose and nature of the social security system and how such a system should appear in the 21st century community was extremely good. To me, there are some factors to consider. We live in a very different, changed labour market than what was some years ago or decades ago. The intensity of the work market is often enormous. We also live in the rising number of people in the disability world. There has been a growing number of young people, but there has also been an increase among people with musculoskeletal problems and, of course, other groups. It has something to do with it. Because we enjoy much better medicine. We live in a much better drug supply, so thankfully, there are plenty of people who in the past could no longer share in a workforce at all or simply die who now live in the community but often with impaired skills. This is positive, but it is something that society needs to adapt to and find out how we can strengthen that group so that it can share in the community. Therefore, it is extremely important for the system to reflect all of this, i.e. The social security system ensures those who are unable to perform an acceptable job support but also that they support the role and active in a workforce. Moreover, there is a tremendous increase in rehabilitation that allows us to obtain as many of those who have impaired working ability, to build them up, so that they can participate in the workforce. Here, huge numbers and strings must be assembled so that the system works for all the different groups but is at the same time a base safety network that we need for those who cannot earn money in a job market. It's a complicated puzzle. This is what we were working on the Committee on how to change the social security system in Iceland. There, representatives of the Great National Development Fund and the Scaring Association of Iceland exchanges, which, of course, know it so well, are in touch with all kinds of people who are dealing with all kinds of disability or health problems but who would like to participate in the community we all share. Now it's waiting for the highest. Minister and chief. Governments scrambling all of it and building a bill. I look forward to meeting this huge project. But it's the future mouse. This bill we're discussing today, about the change in social help and social security law, I view as an inclusion in that work because this is a reduction in the decline in the improvement group called a special extension. I hope that it will make it important if we are going to make changes in the system that we see a little more clearly how people can participate in a workforce. Therefore, I would like to use the minutes I have at last and say yes with the highest degree. A minister when he spoke about it in his ensuing speech that this was the case with the workforce. I think it will be one of the most important things in the coming job, to have the system so that it will not be the responsibility to go and look for a job because of course it will not work if the labour market is so that it does not want to receive people at work. Of course, we're just putting people in self - esteem. That is why it is so important that the labour market is with us and the official labour market is with us in creating jobs and recruiting people. It doesn't mean anything to say to people with impaired skills: Now just go work for yourself. Not if there's nobody at the other end who's willing to get people to work. So it all needs to work together. This will be a huge project. But again, I say I celebrate the bill we're discussing here today and I think it's a step in changing and improving the social security system, the micro-organization of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For her fine speech, Steinunn's aged Þóra was a Árnadóttir. I'm not gonna have a lot of numbers, but I heard she was here to see why. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfuson's when he spoke of me saying that I was carrying some pimps, it implied at least. There is only one question: The fact is that by 2009 a cent across the crown has been placed. Hv. paritaprevir Þóra Árnadóttir says that it was done to meet those who did not have a chance to get into the job market or to do anything. I somehow missed it at a time when a cent in return was found to have changed my application by about a dollar. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is the scope available to them in the treasure of government for those who were not working? Was it new for the others at home who could not expand their presentation or discover anything of a single dollar?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u63	Mr. President. That team was set up to raise people under a certain level of revenue, i.e. those who did not make up a certain amount. I have to admit that I don't remember the particular money in 2009, I don't have it in my head. [[Up front.]] But then they received special contributions on the payments they had that were under that money to get them into that number. Yes, of course they used the money of these people. As a result, their favors increased at that time. If it hadn't been for the special progressives, they would have had benefits that were under there. So, of course, they took advantage of money because it increased the productions of those who paid less than that. So I must answer a question. A senator said: "Yes, they took advantage of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. If I get it right, then I will. A senator saying that in 2009, at a quarter a year's decline, it was likely used in this process that resulted in tossing out individuals, I recall that around that period, it was about 186,000 dollars. Hv. A senator is saying that it brought this up at that time. In fact, a centenarian was put in this special progressive supplement to bring the lowest one to some of the criteria considered to be the minimum. I can't say anything because even if you're not older than you are, it's not good to remember that I'm remembering a dollar what it was like in 2009. The only thing I remember in 2009 is that Iceland was in desperate condition just as it is today. It's as simple as that. A dollar a year has been here with a crowd for ten years. This small step that is being taken in the direction of removing it is for improvement. Everything's fine, though it's small. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: thinks so. A senator that it is legal to discriminate against one group of members, such as an invalid with a crown in return to a dollar? I don't expect to what. A senator is on trial, but this is how we are talking about the rights and goals of our rules, not only what is involved in the constitution but also the administrative law of moderate and equality and all of this, whether it cannot be in a slightly gray area how we treat that particular group of people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u65	Mr. President. The special supply was not established in the history of the left management. It was not established in 2009. It was first established in the Independent Party and the United States government when Sigurðardóttir was the minister of Social Affairs and had been one of her conflicts. So after 2009, she was moved on to a small amount of money in the financial fund, and this huge decrease in income was put on the relief party. It was designed to protect those who had nothing more to live for than money from social security. The interests of a government fund were so great that those with greater self - saving ability in a job market had diminished. To me, that is just the right thought to the economic conditions that existed back then. Today, however, the economic conditions are very different and have been for some time, so it has long been time for this to come back. I mean, you know, about the legality of these income connections, I think they are. In fact, it is with nearly all the social security benefits that they have some degree of impairment. The degree of impairment varies depending on whether it is a microenergy pension, income insurance, or anything else. [[The president calls.]] But, yeah, I think it's totally a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledot for the speech, which was a great thing. One particular point was made in the matter of both. A senator I remember talking about at the time when we were sitting on a committee that's been going through here for what a good job it's done. Then I remember talking about this very matter that before you can think of working performance or building in that area, you would need to build up a part - time network. I remember that at that time the members of the committee were discussed with them that it might be suggested that Icelanders follow examples of other nations, such as. In the United States, Germany and certain states in the matter, that they would be legally legal, and those possibly rural communities would be obliged to interpret in a certain proportion of part - time jobs. In this way, some demands could be set in the individual market. I think they agreed this would have to start with the state itself. That's why I'm asking. A senator feels the same way, that the State has to start in itself by legalizing some percentage that would have to hire people with limited skills and thus provide or organize part - time work so that the function of the group that we have not yet been able to do could be increased. I think we must agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that it's not the right way, to start by making a performance assessment and then plan to organize new jobs. So I'd like to hear a little bit from the senator about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the question. It is very important that we discuss the workforce in this context. There are many things the government can do to create the community and the environment that support work. I just want to remind you that at the last council, there was a ban on the discrimination of a labour market, which has long been spoken of as being so important to disabled people and to people with impaired skills. We weren't there when I was. A senator sat on a committee together. It was then spoken of the importance of that law's approval. So that's what's been taken now, and that's good. I think me and what. A senator would agree completely on that. And I think it is also very important that the public go ahead with a good example. If it's legal, I don't know. I haven't really wondered what are the advantages and who are the faults of such a system. There are various routes around us in the countries, and as far as I know them, none of them are perfect and do not lead to a complete conclusion. So I'm just gonna let myself answer it and say that I don't know if it's a good idea to put it into law. But the public is to go ahead with a good example, considering what has been going well, learning from it, and avoiding what has gone wrong elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. It has been observed that the growth in disability is enormous in Iceland. It seems particularly high in the younger or youngest age categories, which is a major concern. Then especially among young men, if I may draw it out, and that is a great concern. So I'll discuss that now we've been living with this system for a very long time, and, of course, some of us are 100% poor people, i.e. those who are born in that condition or who suffer bad accidents, etc, but the estimates made in Iceland over their heads may not be quite 100% but above their heads, they either seem to be worth 75% micromath or not. It is understandable that such things should occur because those who are estimated to be 74% or less are not rewarded for any human's livelihood. The question is, may it be that we have this system, i.e. 75% or not, walling people in some trap. Is this possible for us? In fact, we're getting close to the service assessment, which I know is a very delicate matter for micro-germs. So the question is, could there be any objection to such an assessment? 50%, etc. with the premise that the benefits they would bring, and then likely if they were suitable for work, would benefit people for their livelihood. The question is: Does the senator believe that it may be that the system we now have, 75% or nothing, has an even higher level of disability? Do people may permanently lock up the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u69	Mr. President. One of the advantages of the present system is that those in it have a measure of security. The amount of money is not high enough, but there's a measure of security that you're in, like, a safe haven inside the system. That has tremendous advantages. The problem with that system, however, is that there is not enough motivation to participate in society. This is especially comforting for young people in the prime of life and is better for them and for society as many as there were more and more active participants. Of course, it is true of people of all ages. I'd still like to give special attention to the young people in this, and that's exactly what we've been discussing right now on the Social Security Committee, i.e. How we can increase the effectiveness of people but in the way that they have financial security. There I feel that increased rehabilitation, in which people for some reason have had to go off work market, e.g. Because of illness, they are helped to build up to go back to the workforce, whether in part - time work or in full - time service. It's in the direction we have to take our system, encourage people to function, but keep watch over the security network and forwarding, especially those who can't participate in the labour market, and they'll always be few. So the system needs to do both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to state that I like the discussion that's been very helpful today on this particular matter. I think people are very solution and reason well. We're dealing with this important matter as a bill to legalize the social assistance and social security law. The goal of the bill is twofold. It is one thing to reduce the impact of other revenues than improve social security and social support in calculating specific pensions due to the implementation of microenergy and rehabilitation of donors. So, on the other hand, which may be the big issue in all of this, is what we have so far called a dollar to the point of making a loan. The bill says that in return of a dollar - a - dollar deficiency, a good criticism was made, and it is indeed true, and most of the time it is seen if not everyone in the Assembly Hall sees that it is not proper for anyone to maintain such a crime. I'd like to say that this bill is a way to get things going a little bit. I'd like to agree with the Quantum Act, and I'd like to criticize the fact that the Quantum Community is in any darkness in this matter because they don't know what will happen. Once again, a group is left behind. I think we should resume a discussion on the employment valuation at the Assembly Hall. I think the assessment of performance that was presented the other day is worth a lot of money. In return, I feel that I am starting at a very wrong end. We have experience, for example. from Denmark, where a work programme was introduced and this introduction can be claimed to have failed. The remainder of the term "freix yebs " is by permission of a president whom we have called with support or employment. That's what's left in Denmark. Then I may have reached the point I wanted to mention, that we need to change our priorities, i.e. First, initiating part - time jobs, implementing jobs that are open to people who can do such jobs. It can be done. We have a role model, even in this country, and that's when we created the MPA deal. It was actually advertised to people who requested NPA support, so to speak, personal support, and many applied. It was willing to get the user - controlled personal help, and I am convinced that if we were to take it into work with support, i.e. To advertise people, it would truly be people who have the ability or at least 100% will to do their part. Since that package was fed, you could advertise it again. It is hoped that it could be arranged so that only a small group of individuals would remain, and that group would be able to do so well to live in a decent standard of living. I reiterate that I believe that the beginning of the wrong end is the beginning of this system change, which works very complex and is presented in a very vague way, if you can accept the statement of the Quantum Community, which I choose to do. In a speech this morning, I mentioned that the Organization had sent us mail yesterday to remind us of the lack of funding for the seminary. I can agree with that, and I'm sure everyone can agree with that. I'd also like to point out that it has been claimed that microgrowing is increasing, and I think that's actually wrong. I remember seeing an interview with a person who handled the disability assessment, and he said he was taking down a waiting list for disability. It's been especially successful in 2016, and as that year's rates of disability increased, it reminds me of 2017 and even 2018, but this year it's decreasing. I'm not trying to destabilize people who run into disability, and I agree that no one wants to be an invalid. I know it, and I know it isn't how people think. I'm saying, however, it's important that we know where we're headed, and that would be advice if we were to. A minister would explain what would come next. This morning we received a letter from the National Association of Development. By permission of the president, I would like to quote at the end: ▪ The Development Organization believes that if these changes are achieved, there is a small step in the right direction. People who are afflicted by their disability and limited tools at the labour market will still have little or no opportunity to obtain employment, and they will still have to draw out lives in the contracts. Men who are inconsistencies with the biographies so that they become paid by about 70% significantly lower than unemployment rates that no one is too happy about, but most would be fortunate only temporarily enough to provide for their progress. National Developmental Funds challenge the government and the Council to add the approval of disabled people to the possibility of a decent life and to be able to have an active share in society to the same extent that the people in the country have. So many were important words, and I leave them here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u71	Mr. President. After my first speech, I published a report on the work of a committee that I was serving in my time and produced in February 2016 and found that the work being done on that committee was naturally good and that it would benefit each man to read this report and its conclusions as a raise for what needs to be done is being done now, etc. It was so bad that my computer died when I was about to start reading the report for the highest level. A minister who needs it, but I cannot help but send this report to him or hook it up so that he can personally read it through and see to it how well he has spent on this committee and how badly he has been spent since then. It's been more than three years since this committee's retirement. The important thing is that the step that is taking now to remove a cent in return is so small that it is a disgrace. I think I'll have to quote the words of the Chairman of the Corporate Community where she said, by permission of the President: ▪ Couldn't they have had it at least half? According to the highest figures. A minister read us earlier, I could believe that this half is a billion. It is the same billion that were removed in the Christmas Book of Books when we were accepting the budget, where the initial figure was 4 billion but went down to 2.9. That would likely have been enough to make this case possible. There is a billion, that's just a question of the will to make it right. One thing I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers to do it, and it's starting at the right end. I assure him that he would receive a great deal of support within the council, especially from the people around him and the people around him, in order to strengthen the planning of professional ability by making these changes in the workforce, and there are slow homemaking of the government, to create and organize part - time work for those who have reduced their ability to function in a flexible way that such as may be able to do a week at a time, but then you can't qualify by raising this amount as you need to. Now the minister and the government are basically a car dealer. They already said they're gonna shoot in a little bit, but the rest will be here next year. People are supposed to trust them. On one occasion, an American politician was spoken of, and his posters were installed throughout the town with a picture of him asking: Would you buy a used car from this man? I'm not sure I'd buy a used car from the highest level. Minister. That's why I'm not entirely sure that I would trust him to, even though he's thrown in here on this matter for a promise to do more later, that he would do more later, not perhaps until much later, e.g. Like just before the next election or something like that. I don't expect to see the greatest improvement in this case from this little step right here. I don't trust it. - I'm going to ask the president to make sure there's no hatch in the side room. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. The minister and the government that they take a firm stand for this matter and that the committee will also do so so so so that the famines presented here will be increased so that they will be remembered for those so desperately in need of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u72	A respectable president. I would like to mention one thing briefly and try to do it in so - called human language rather than a legal language. A quick review of the matter might seem to reduce the rights of people to personal protection when the trial is just the opposite. I think it's a good idea to mention it here in a pontum, especially because it's an update in harmony with some rather dramatic changes that have occurred in the legal environment of the U.S. personal protection recently, very much for strengthening. Personal protection has never been better in Iceland than today, after the approval of the bill we recently set for personal protection. Following such changes, methods may change that are used to ensure the rights of the citizens, and in particular, they must be mentioned in paragraph 9. in the new Personal Protection Act, which deals with criteria for the management and implementation of sensitive personal information. There is a list of conditions that are needed and that need to meet one of them as well as other conditions of the law. The 1st issue speaks of the informed approval of the registered person for working with the information. There is one way that you can work with sensitive personal information, but then there are other ways that you can count that do not require this informed consent. When it comes to the informed approval of a government agency to provide citizens with services, there is no equal relationship. The city does not mean that it is an equal institution. If the Agency is used solely with the expected informed consent, i.e. It is not entirely clear that the client's written consent is granted voluntarily because under the surface the client might think. Well, okay, I have to give this deal a deal. And then you have to ask, " Is it over my head? Is it free of free will? ' The evaluation is not, so instead of it, it is better that the limitations the Agency needs to have in the processing and handling of the information depend on the other laws that work in the process. This provides a better protection than to expect a client in this position to grant written consent. Therefore, this requirement is to be removed from the law here and there, on writing agreements that seem to be to reduce the individual's personal rights when the attempt is that it is more likely to remove a good excuse that the Agency could use to work with the information in a different way than the other conditions, the numbered in Article 9. Human protection laws, please. It is, as may be heard in this speech, a legal, more complex but simple review of the matter. It is not enough simply to read it in order to get the sense of it. And as the Pirates and I care very much about personal protection and privacy, I felt right that this would be true, because you know that there are citizens in this country who read about what's going on here, and then it's important that the message is clear, that this is an updated law in harmony with better personal protection laws, which are thought to be different and better than the old.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. A senator for raising these issues because we are going through a change of mind regarding the appearance of personal protection laws. The first reaction, as the senator so well described, is that a written agreement is somehow a basis for sharing personal information, when it is experienced that in many cases you cannot talk about unsatisfied consent. When sharing information is necessary, in order to e.g. get paid benefits from Iceland's health insurance, can't be said a person can sign something of his own free will. I just wanted to add this, because I didn't hear the senator mention it, that what we put into law against, because it takes balance on these matters, is mandatory for the institutions to inform when sharing information on individuals. On the one hand, we will stop acting as if written consent is of any value when there is no other option than to agree, and on the other hand, we will force agencies to report information to others. As noted here, new thought is being introduced, as well as a more assured frame of communication between sensitive person data.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. By the way, this is to remind us that the personal protection laws are not optional, they are national law. Even in other laws, however, personal protection is needed. Personal protection and related regulations made by the European Union require that people be informed about the personal data being collected, why, what right they have and how they use that right to get it right, destroyed, etc. This is true of such changes, as is the case with such changes, in order to update the law in harmony with these good values. It is important to keep that in mind, for this is the extremely important right of the citizens to discuss, which is very important to people to live up to and understand the right things and that our work here reflects the selfish ambition of many of us citizens, to be at peace at such times. And when it is unavoidable to provide sensitive information in contact with state institutions whose purpose is to ensure the rights and interests of the citizens, the city still has as much as possible control of that information and as far as the highest knowledge is concerned where information is collected, for each individual, etc. I think there's a tip. The senator's very good, and I thank him for her. I reiterate that I came into a pita because I thought it was right to mention this because at the quick lecture of the case, it is not obvious to the average player if he is not in the whole discussion with the changes made by the new personality protection laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u75	Madam President. I recommend a commission about bill change of electronic business laws and other electronic services involved in the limited responsibility of the host. The Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Daði Ólafsson and Eiríkur Jónsson, president of the Committee on Reservation of Communion, Media and Information Freedom at Work, Fróði Steingrímsson of the Society's Court in the TV and film industry, Guðrún Björk Björk Bjarnadóttir of the STEF, music poets, and owners of the transport rights and of Rán Tryggvadóttir of the Office. The committee received reviews and other information from various sources, including The National Bureau of Directorates and Development, Iceland's Journalist Association, Society of the Court of TV and film industry, author-registered Committee and joint review from the STEF, the National Center for Remuneration, the Union of the Film Manufacturers and the Union of Artists and Artists. The bill suggests that certain changes in electronic business laws and other electronic services will be made. The changes are intended to promote expression freedom by disposing of the host's objective responsibility and to reduce their obligation to remove or block access to data in accordance with 1 mg. 14th par. The law. The bill is based on the management group's work as Minister of Education and Culture by the Council of Congress No. 23/138 of Iceland is developing a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. The bill is made up of the Committee on Improvements in Communication, Communication, and Information Freedom, which included ... togoovertheemployer of the control group. The bill suggests that a new protocol replaces the current 2nd equals 1.mg. 14th par. the management of electronic business and other electronic services as a measure of the condition for the host's responsibility is that he or she has direct knowledge that there is illegal activity or information and, for the sake of damage repairs, that he is aware of the facts or circumstances in which illegal activity or information may be identified. For the host's overall responsibility on matter, it is a principle that they are not responsible for the material they host. In Figure 2 1. 14th pars., compares to the 1 5th-twenty-seven-seven-seven-sevenths. "re., the law is laid down for broad exceptions from that principle." The bill aims to modify these exceptions in line with the implementation of this directive in other European countries. In accordance with local regulations, the host should remove or prevent material access from the host reporting of the alleged fracture. Not necessarily the actual knowledge of the fragmentation of the author's house is the case with the offense. Implementing electronic business laws and other electronic services, including in particular the implementation of Directive 2000/31/EC of the specific legal aspects of services, particularly electronic commerce. An enforcing law goes beyond the directive in terms of exceptions to the above principle of commitment to the intermediate forces, setting freedom of expression more easily than necessary. It has been discussed whether the changes proposed by the bill can result in a more time - consuming response process for saving nonstatutory materials and more difficult for rights and service employers. The committee does not consider this to be the case, and it considers the changes proposed to Article 14. The law is designed to simplify and explain the rules of when a service employee is responsible for the material he is hosting and when to take action. With the change, service employers will be obliged to withdraw material when direct knowledge of the matter is involved. The change is designed to reduce the possibility of a host's duty to remove or prevent material access. The Commission discussed whether or not the changes proposed in the bill should be legalized in the European Union by means of a new feasibility law. There was a view that such legislation could bring about significant changes in the environment involved by the bill. The European Parliament has agreed to a new author-based legislation, as per Council Directive 2019/790/EU, which includes significant changes, including on the responsibility of middlemen who provide specific services online. However, this is not relevant to the kind of service mentioned in Directive 2000/31/EC that was implemented by the legislation on electronic business and other electronic services, but this directive is not changed by the new one. The new directive rotates to subject groups, not normal hosts as it is defined in current laws. Substitutions are defined as enterprises, which mainly, or as part of their main activities, store and provide public access to considerable amounts of the author-sized materials that they sort, recruitment, publish advertisements, and profit. It is clear that this is not a service employer who provides data in the sense of Article 14. the management of electronic business and other electronic services The detailed directive was adopted by the European Union in April, and it takes effect on June 7, which is stated after two days. Since that day, the European Union has two years to implement its regulations. The Commission also calls attention to the fact that the directive will not receive legal values in Iceland until it has been recorded in the EEA Convention under the decision of the European Commission and implemented in Icelandic properly, as always by European directives. It is not clear whether or when it will be, so the committee feels that speculations about this cannot be in control of legalization. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Braunr Níelsson, and Harðardóttir G.. Under the headings of Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, Smári Mccarthy, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Braunr Níelsson's Bryndís, Haraldsdóttir, Odnew Harðardóttir Hardydur, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurzóttir. I'm going to take a few minutes to discuss that suspicion of this matter is understandable. It's a very complex group of paintings, how to handle writers' layers online. In fact, this directive, which came from the European Union, the so - called U.S.A., by the permission of presidents of the U.S. This was later recorded in the United States as a law in chapter 230 of Communication Department, i.e. Communication laws if I try to quickly translate English. Similar measures were taken in the European Union using this Directive, 2031/EC. The approach is always an attempt to find a balance between ensuring that in the case of the author's violation, the contents of the material are taken down quickly and normally and to prevent any from taking advantage of this provision for temporarily censoring material that has been placed on the Internet. True, there are consequences of misuse of the process, but sometimes that has not been true in Iceland, so I know but abroad, that the process has been abused for political or commercial purposes. A clearer requirement for this to be true knowledge of a real Tribal, rather than a simple announcement from some source, is that the majority of possible abuses are being chiseled and still remains open to the fact that legitimate persons who have the potential to take it down. That's really the point. As long as there is obvious rights, the process is completely unchanged. The only case in which this change is not the same is when a third person who is not connected to the project reports fractures and so forth. That is how I have put this into practice, and that is the understanding I had even received. from the experts who came before the committee. I don't think that suspicion of this matter is necessarily true. I also know that there is always some extra suspicion in the matter of authoritarians that are being met. There's a story that would be interesting to trace, but there may be reason to mention that neither I nor the Pirats in general are in opposition to authorism but simply want it to be updated in harmony with modern times and to take a clear view of other rights. It gets to this bill, and that's why I'm very kind and obliged to support it in the way I've traced it. I'm not going to let this go any longer than suggest that the case be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u76	A respectable president. I must briefly discuss this matter. It's a very good case the Piratars have held from the very beginning, i.e. to change the problem of the law, which makes it possible to file an announcement to take out material without reviewing whether the material in question is somehow fragile on the author's weight. According to the Ministry's memo, there are no cases of abuse or incorrect uses of this. That may be the case in Iceland, in this extremely small economy, but that's not the case abroad. By the turn of the century, I recall that it was in 2000, that laws in the United States were adopted quickly by DMCA, Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and were actually laws about the same things being taken away from here. They included the same requirement, i.e. If someone posted a video on YouTube or music on any web or whatever, text on a web, it doesn't matter, it was enough for someone else out of town to say, "It's a violation of the title. And it was taken out immediately. Then they may have considered whether the break was real or not. You can argue that this is how it needs to be because the fragmenting of the originals is such a terrible fraction. Then I would say that freedom of expression is also an extremely important right. Similarly, I would point out that this, however, is a complete mistake to what is expected, e.g. in court. There, people are innocent until they are judged guilty. Someone is not expected to be guilty as soon as someone else points to him and accuses him. The reason that lawyers in many parts of the United States, as well as on European continents, have not somehow viewed these arguments as very significant, I think, I guess, I guess, is, first of all, a misunderstanding on how the Tribal violations have in real life and how the Internet must work to win the rightness of expression. It was no big deal in the old days to enforce an author's rights in the classic way, not that way, until some technology was invented to copy a deed like a cassato, as we call it in a terrible Icelandic. At that time there was a great deal of fear, e.g. correspondent in Britain, about the destruction of music, said that people would just stop making music. The same thing happened when the machine or record players came up, afraid that people would just stop playing. The same thing happened when the Internet came up, that people would just stop making movies, shows, music, and the like. On the contrary, I merely point to the fact that it is not, on the contrary, this is a very productive industry, apart from the fact that there has come another type of industry, such as video games, which my authority has become more industrialized than films. How can permafrost kill this industry? Why, then, is there more music than ever before? Why are more programs developed than ever before? The theory doesn't hold up. The Internet will not kill software. You're not necessarily supposed to use your own example to back you up in a punk, but I'm going to do it this time. I know how to make music, I know how to create software, I know how to write lyrics. It's about All that I know for my sustenance; and that which I know how to earn is sure of the authors. I don't want to be out of work in the future. My mother's a filmmaker. My father's a quiet man. Besides, I don't feel like doing them out of work or destroying their industry. I think it's important to keep that in mind because there's a fear of too much fear, an exaggeration of fear, among the author's unions, that the Internet or free flow of information will somehow go to the industry. It is not, and it is a fact. That's clear. Of course, this industry needs to change, natural, just as all industry changes when suddenly there is a revolution in the technology of a particular industry, revolutions like the Internet, which can't really be compared to any revolution since it was invented except perhaps the printing machine. In fact, comparison is difficult in that case because the Internet Revolution is simply much more important. Of course industry has to change, that's just fine. I understand it hurts. Of course it hurts. How can this be avoided? Of course it's bad, but the good news is that it's happening. This industry is not dying. He needs to change his ways. People who create material, create ideas, need to find new ways, find new ways, and have found new ways to earn money from their work, which is important, and according to Pirata's policies, just so they can come out. The reason we want to cut off things like the ones suggested here is because these are against other important rights that are also important. How important it is that people who create ideas get income from their work! That's important. But freedom of expression is also important. It also matters that people engage in some conversation, e.g. A hot, political chat on the Internet, as if I've done many times and others in this room, is very important that these conversations are not disturbed by some random attack on the basis of the author's law. This may not have happened here, since Youtube is not hosted here or the other mediums who have been most used in the popular talk of the most controversial matters, such as religion, morals, and such. But on the Internet it has been highly abused, and on many websites with millions, if not tens of millions or hundreds of millions of users, it is impossible for the service provider, e.g. Facebook, Youtbe or Google, is a procedure on what is the right offense and what is not justified. In other words, it needs to be self-activated somehow and that process can never be fair, at least not according to law like that. It's been years since I was in the same conversation as I'm in now, but at the time, it was rather typical that someone would come up with an opinion, e.g. that the atheists were not immoral, or that some religious book contained hatred propaganda and violent exhortations. Or the other way around, that some believer wanted to say something ugly about an atheist or whatever. Then came an ongoing attack from people who were in a violent rage, who felt that they were in court, that they were doing right with all the tools offered in the legislation to accuse someone of the perjury, and left the material. It was rather typical, and very often it happened. But, of course, these websites are not housed in Iceland, so it doesn't happen as often according to the code here. On the other hand, we are under obligation to keep the letter of the law as it should be, and it should not be what it is today. He's supposed to be much more like what he'll be when this bill is approved. No other reason to mention that this bill is partly due to the IMMI Control Group, which is derived from the IMMI resolution, adopted by all paid votes in 2010 and submitted by the then-growing water. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. The presentation that appeared in this bill has been far from radical. That it is a radical measure to also protect freedom of expression and not do anything to protect authors from capital violations. But I'm glad to see that there's no more radical depression, and I'm glad to see that it's almost certain and almost enough understanding of it, not quite enough, but we're on the right track with this bill, so I support it. I thought it best, though, to look at the context of the situation because while we're here talking about Icelandic legislation, we can't assume that the influence of Icelandic lawmakers can be seen in a world where almost everything in Iceland is hosted outside of Iceland. It has been a problem, and we are reflecting the right solution to that problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u77	A respectable president. A little relief and a good addition to necessary matters. Only more to put things in context are there examples of people having photos of community media to display themselves, just a portrait or a picture of them in some fun situation, being taken out, recorded because someone sent a DMCA announcement about these photos: your image was taken down because someone else asked for it and you have to stand in a tremendous deal of trouble by saying, "No, this is my picture. It's just myself I took, and it's just my picture. - There's no micro-circuit process that's going into effect. I've heard a few examples of such a journey that people have had to take in, just because someone sent on purpose and for no good purpose such a announcement. In the larger context, it is very pleasant to review the technological advances that lead us to the Internet and their relationship with the authors. I went over it, like... and how technology progresses into society as a whole. It was there, for example. reviewing the fact that the notes of authors or bands were being distributed all over until everyone could suddenly play the music of that band. It was completely impossible, something had to be done about it. As mentioned earlier, the machine then and then predicted people - because Darwin was in the discussion then - that they would just develop the vocal cords, no longer need to be used. It was all kind of a depression. There have been a wide range of Judgment Day tests that have been followed for a very long period of time by any technological progress in specific communication and communication. I've put up a thought test, ▪thought experiment, to be president, in English where I imagined the world if we were going back with technology. We have all or most of us here experienced the world without Internets, e.g. for smartphones, how could they just get people through the country, how to order calls abroad, how to deal with people and family members in foreign lands when they were studying or living there, it was all a lot more complicated. There's a certain communication technology involved in the Internet, and evolution is in that communication technology from the time we got involved when we stopped dating, a marathon runner, who passed through and returned messages. Or the mail service, we are still wrestling with it, and we will see how her next step will be during the Internet's time, regardless of how quickly and how quickly the information will spread around the world, and how it will affect the authorly, which, of course, comes later. Any technological advances that have reduced the time that people can communicate with them and spread information - there will never be a chance to cancel that progress, say all at once: No, the smart phone is a bad idea, let's go back to having only the landline phone. Or the Internet--no, it was just a bad idea. Let's cancel it and go back to just having mail service and writing letters. Let's drop the typewriter too, etc. These advances in technology have come to exist, and their impact on society is irrefutable on how we communicate with one another because human society is going through human relationships. The technology that has given us the opportunity to communicate faster, more and more, will not go anywhere. We've evolved from being able to communicate with many because someone had to go out into the public square and report something to everyone, read one letter. It is similar to a radio, and television in some respects too, where one announces it to many. All the others who listen, this is such a sermon, can't answer back. The Internet adds, is now suddenly back and forth communication between milliseconds. This has an impact on society and on the foundation that authorship rights are based on the simple reasons that copying has become easier. There was a work of copying notes once, they had to be written, then a printing machine came, and then the notes and stuff could be printed. Authorized material could be adopted, copied easily. Now it is almost complete copying at the same time and at no cost. That is what has often prevented a certain value estimate of the price of a copy. If a copy is really free, why do I have to pay so much for it? Why do I have to pay as much money for a copy that costs as little as nothing, an electronic copy of a book or a book as I had to pay when I had a serious copy, such as a paper book that is obviously made of material that costs, which is made of permanent material? You burn it, it goes, but it doesn't cost anything to make the electronic copy. This inevitably changes certain values in people's lives what it means to copy such a writer's product. We must adjust to this. It has occurred in recent years, there have been measures that have provided digital material in a much more accessible and inexpensive way, such as the reduction in the cost of copying. Overall, these industrial minds have been constantly fighting new technological advances, but this battle has always been lost and the result has been some kind of creative, only in a new environment. It is hoped that the next time that it happens, which is inevitable, the mind - working industry will help shape the future of thinkers for that future, i.e. that instead of combating the technological advances, it will be shaped by all the others, in fact, who are involved in the technological change. It's a pleasure that we're finally here with this, and there's more to it, but this is at least positive to the present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u78	President. Just really short. I'd just like to review what the members of Pirata have also considered, that the rights that are being weighed, on the other hand, are the rights of the minds, their right to profit from their imaginations, profited from what they have bought. This is extremely important and must be guaranteed. On the other side, if we are to enforce the authorial legislation that has been in progress and worked and was to some extent at the time before the Internet came, if we are to enforce it today, at the time of the Internet, we must set up walls on the Internet, limit freedom of information and expression, and we must spy on economistics. The weekend has gone, so this is what we're looking at. What if we can protect the privacy, protect the freedom of expression and information, and at the same time, the owners of the intellectual rights can profit from imagination? It is the natural state of perfection. When Piratar and I first arrived at the council, we had a lot to do with this, and it had started to happen. We saw this in a certain law, and we saw who was the longest in it, even though it could be accessed free and illegally on the Internet through Torrent and other means. And what was most industrialized by the ability to profit from their intellectual rights? It was electronic producers. No wonder, then, that in the electronic world, they were video producers who live and move. They had managed to do that, both through the iPads where you buy, who squeezed in, or enter a very well-cut area, and then they found a few business models around it under what kind of circumstances people are ready to pay. There are different conditions. Sometimes a man pays his game in advance. Sometimes users sit down with advertisements, sometimes they pay to speed up what is happening in the game or to get some kind of competitive advantage on those they're competing with, etc. This was the first time that video producers found out. Then, when Piratar and I first arrived at the council, 2013, the music industry was doing it. We had Spotify. We saw that since 2012 Torrent had a musical flow, i.e. An illegal download of music, reduced by 80% over a few years. It was starting to happen there. The production of movies and other films, series, and so on was starting, only started. They hadn't quite found it, neither are they today, but everyone is moving there. The company producing materials provides access to electronics. It's just that it's not as good and available and central as Spotify and other music providers have done. That's exactly what we always pointed out, that this is a service problem, i.e. ● What is the English translation of ◯piracy? [[Up front.]] Illegal download, we'll have it. [[Up front.]] There are protests from the hall. [[Up front.]] It's a service problem, i.e. if people get service with the kind of attitude they want, they're there. That's what we've noticed. Try going to Torrent today, you can't find any music. The men aren't doing any shit like that on Torrent. Some still think about it when it comes to footage. I haven't done it for a very long time, just because I don't feel like standing in it. There are plenty of material in other places, but some do. I'm told there's a lot more choice there. We're getting to a place where we can protect our freedom of expression, our freedom of information, the privacy of our private lives at the same time as cowards can profit from their intellectual rights. We're moving very fast into this perfect world in this respect. Let's see what happens when people can print in their three-dimensional printer Ferrari, which they put over their Löduna or something. It's the next fight I don't know how to end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u79	A respectable president. The legal structure is based on the availability of a number of people at the council. Here I recommend a change of suggestions that we owe to the fact that the watchful eyes of a document reader had to be corrected in a paragraph of the law on the agent's debt because we reenacted a sentence in one article from two to three, and thus it runs away after the article. I wish that the U.S.R. would respond well to my decision and accept it below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u80	President. I'm going to explain my vote. This bill makes changes in the way organisations are allowed to work personal information on individuals, and the bill is a part of adjustment of the law due to new protection laws adopted in the last year. The main changes are to agree on the implementation of personal information from the law as a basis for the processing of personal information and, instead, only to be allowed to work personal information on a clear legal basis and to inform the relevant person about the processing. This change is necessary, since approval cannot be considered unsatisfying, since individuals are really forced to accept the authority of the institutions for the implementation of information when they attend public service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u81	A respectable president. This is a great day of joy, that we should be going to vote in the 3rd. on this important matter. Many children, many caregivers, and others have waited a long time for that day and are very grateful to the International Parliament for this work. Therefore, it is important that the objective of the bill succeeds in ensuring the right of children as caregivers, in providing children with the right to enjoy their rights and to have ties with their families and backgrounds, and in following the compliance of their rights as well as their relationships. This follow-up needs to be done, and this needs to be done in good cooperation with all members, health professionals, social and school authorities, as well as those involved in such activities. I thank everyone who's been involved in this case for good cooperation, and especially why. It's a welfare committee. It's a big celebration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u82	Mr. President. Yes, there are times when a person deeply rejoices in his heart over situations that go through, and I want to commend others. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for taking the initiative in this matter. This is really a small matter, but it is so large that it involves the fundamental right of children to be included, to be discussed with them in the face of serious illness or the death of parents. It's a big step forward. Congratulations, General.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u83	President. This bill includes changes in the way health insurance is permitted to gain personal information about individuals. Like the previous case we discussed earlier, the bill is part of adaptation of new personality protection laws to Icelandic law and the change made by this law is that approval is no longer appropriate or sufficient to be approved as a basis for authority on the implementation of personal information on the part of health insurance when a person agrees to do so. Enlightenment of his public service is really not undisputed. The better it is, then, that this information gathering is done only on the basis of law rather than on the individual's consent. Therefore, a legal divorce of the individual's consent is canceled, and rather than the law, it is to inform the relevant person of the processing process. This ensures that the Agency can only work personal information on the basis of clear laws, not on the basis of unexplained consent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u84	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal for electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions. The nominee is on the roof. 1528 and counting. The Economic and Business Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Directorates of the Professional and Neomechanical Ministry, a representative of the Industrial Association and Identities of Ehf. and a guest from the Netothal Lab. With the bill, the plan is to place new global legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions that will replace laws on electronic signatures, No. 28/2001, published by the European Parliament and Council Regulation No. 910/2014 of July 2014 This Regulation includes: The obligation of the hosts to provide the surveillance board with a so-called conformance assessment report should be submitted by the hosts to validate the trust providers and services they meet the requirements of the Regulation. Advertisers have noted that such a report is costly and time - consuming and that it cannot be taken until the law has taken on effect and the necessary instructions, as it were. F-T-E-T. The bill, be in the regulations. In consultation with the Ministry, the Commission suggests that appropriate documents will be postponed to September 1, 2020, to provide such a report and to consider members who meet requirements in accordance with Article V. of current legislation on electronic signatures as valid security providers until a report has been submitted and the assessment by the National Competent Authority. Then the committee suggests correction of a reference and has a set of adjustments that follow this committee's list. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the wife of Haraldsdóttir was absent from the case, literature is considered authorized at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the committee, this is the publication of Óli Þór Mccarthy, and why. The Smári of Phreg, the son of Víglundsson, Bristur, the Brynjar of Níelsson, the daughter of Borgis, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Birgir, the Þórarinsson of Thorfur, the Harðardóttir of Gunns, and Silja the Gunnarsdóttir of Dögggi,
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u85	Mr. President. I'm not going to have a lot of words on this subject. I just wanted to say how important it is that we continue to develop this category. Electric identification has changed considerably in recent years, and not for many years since identifying yourself electronically in some context, it was novel that people even thought it was strange. Today, people are identifying themselves electronically from checking their bank account to participate in social media or to buy housing or anything. It is that when we talk about identification, the point that is gradually being developed by technology is to drift away from us as a person. In times past, people were known by names, and people knew their faces, and there was trust between them. Now that we live in an international market world where 7 billion people are in all kinds of games and jobs each day, even with people they have never seen and will never see, the problem follows that there is a need to make a common understanding of what a person is, where the line is drawn, and how much we can trust one another out of things like signatures. Basically, the technology used today is primarily based on mathematics invented around 1970. I'm not going to get into it here, but the reality is that for most people it's a little scary, and that countless people, companies of different kinds, are now running a variety of trust services, too, giving people a lot of confusion. [[Up front.]] I recently made some inquiries in which I inquired about which authentication systems were used by various local software and various government institutions. The answers were very varied, not even for those who use the services of the Icelandic State in one way or another can count on that to be one and only one authentication system to be used in all that service. This is what I consider to be a problem, but I think it's just as much as I see it as a problem that today we've put out a solid service to companies like Facebook and Google for quite a number of types of services, not in the state of the country as we do in general business. We have extremely little control over it. It was observed in the management of the Committee that there is a measure of concern that companies have because they increase their demands as rapidly as they are being done, since it was resolved by giving them time to meet the increased demands. But it is important that we set very clear requirements for trust, that we as a community be more aware of what we have when we are talking about identifying people and talking about trusting a particular signature so that in time, it will become more difficult, for example. Stealing and using people's personality traits in a crisis of purpose or thus making some kind of handhold or purpose lead to accidentally leaking private information about people to a third person who has nothing to do with the information. It's complicated, it's not even that all techs agree on what is the right solution. All I expect is this matter and the case of this obligation to be treated by the General for the future, perhaps for decades. For now, it is a very good bill that extends many good steps forward, and then I suggest that we continue to discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u86	A respectable president. We're here discussing electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business. As with many good things, this issue is with EU Regulation. If someone has missed, much good comes from there, especially in complex and technical matters, i.e. languages that are complex and technical for those who are not particularly familiar. Now, no one should be blamed for not knowing these matters specifically because it is a relatively modern technology. It's not really old in itself, but it's kind of new, at least in Iceland, that it's used to that degree - you would expect the average citizen to have stumbled on it or at least heard of it. However, it is with all new technology that there are advantages and defects that are extremely important to the lawgivers and authorities, as well as the public citizen, because overexplicably knowledge of the technology in the hands of the government that the city has not, can reveal itself in a balance of power that makes it possible for the government to violate its citizens or not to defend citizens' rights rights. It's the same thing as all so-called magic technology, knowing mine. I just want to talk about magic. When I say magical technology, I mean a technology so far beyond the knowledge range of the common user that he couldn't distinguish between the technology and the magic except by the intelligence that in the community there are very clever scientists here and where he can understand how things work. If the common citizen had an understanding of electricity, simple basics of electricity, he could understand a variety of technology from house to house, the video device could tear to pieces, or some other device in the home, and before that, if people had seen a windmill or a mill that uses water energy or something, it would not need much more knowledge to know the kind of technology that was involved or really what technology was possible. However, when it comes to modern technology, such things as motion sensors, digital cameras, smartphones, with all they have, location equipment, and the like. It is devices that deal with very complex physics and highly complex technology that take even years to come to understand basics. This means that it is not quite clear how well the city knows the possibilities of this technology. I think that's a measure of concern, and the only solution I know, because we don't start to reduce the use of technology, is that the city gains more knowledge of the material. In other words, it is extremely important that when we look at education, whether from house to house or from public sources, we teach science and technology more and more than ever before. It really matters, not just that our children get jobs when they're our age, but that they're able to protect their rights and understand what it means to develop technology, such as electronic identification. According to this, electronic IDs, electronic signatures, and encryption are closely linked to technology and highly malformed by the government in Iceland, and the widespread in the community. It's been getting much better and fast. The banks use electronic IDs, and there's the natural web site is inland. It's very decent in most ways. An electronic ID can be used, and electronic identification can be used in a very large area in the very positive community. However, that is not entirely the norm. Really, you should ask, " Why do we use something else? ' If the goal of signing is to confirm that the person is really who he says he is, there is no reason not to use an electronic identity. There is no need to use the old route. I have learned from my chats with politicians in Estonia that there people don't sign anything, that people only have electronic IDs, and that even there are cases approved by the government signed by electronic documents, ministers at government meetings that present languages that are expressed by electronic documents. Doesn't that work a little far in the future in Iceland? I think it works that way. I understand that the banking system, which includes money and other members of the community that work a lot with technology and technology, is taking up this technology, but when it comes to conservative institutions, such as the General or the Public, it is always the conservativeness I've recently dealt with, which prevents people from seeing the potential that are there, how close they are, how easy it is to make use of them, and how easily it would be used. So I'm behind to the other, there's also a certain risk that we might be led into such a community where it's assumed that electronic IDs are used in any trade. I'll have to, for example. to say that although an occasional fine item can be said about the Facebook website, in my opinion very few and not nearly as many as can be said to be bad about that site, it shocks me a bit to the thought that such sites may communicate with people, perhaps even sharing their feelings with e - mails. I think it is important for us to think that if we are beginning to expect electronic identification to be used whenever we have human relationships, we have, in effect, eliminated anonymity. Then we need to ask ourselves, " What does anonymity involve? ' How much do we want to get out of it? Why? And that's an important right, isn't it? I realize that if you're going to write an article in the Morning paper, you're expected to sign your full name. This is because it is a field of discussion so that the writer of the letter will revise his opinion and be prepared to participate in a public discussion about it. What about public confessions? What about letters addressed to the others and to these psychologists or experts who publicly advise people on personal matters, emotions, even sex, or anything similar to drug abuse? If, everywhere in the community, I'm expected to be used electronically, I'm afraid -- no, I can't say that I'm afraid of that much, but I think it's important to keep it in mind that, in time, the city will get used to it because it always needs to prove who it is to be involved in human relations. It's a trend I don't want to see. Ignorance is important. In fact, I'd like to go over to a little more extreme situations, which we may not need much attention in Iceland right now, but it may be very easy to look for in later years and that must be done in other European countries, European countries, and that is part of a political discussion. I say for myself that I would not dare express my views in Hungary today if I had to use electronic identification to register myself in such a site. I just wouldn't dare it for fear of violence, actually for fear of the authorities, too, because Hungary's authorities are completely losing their minds. And it is Europe, a European Union that is very close to us. I'm not sure that I'd dare do that in Poland either. I don't think I'd dare do that any more than here. When we find ourselves in a political place that the rage reaches such a degree that it is difficult to express itself publicly because of fear of negative consequences, if not on the part of the authorities, then on the part of some lunatics in town, it is very important that the public citizen is involved in political discussions that do not rely on an electronic identification, but on the contrary, a chair is able to enjoy anonymous secrets, but it is not necessary to do so. What is more, such an area where you can be anonymous to participate in discussions must not be limited to people who want to be anonymous. It needs to be the public field. As an example, I and two others could. Martyrs lightly set up some chat area, where the three of us could chat anonymously and safely invite all others along, but that would never be part of the public talk. This would require chat areas such as Facebook, YouTube, or something like that, because these sites involve the public. Aonymity does not have to be just some legal option that one computer nerd in a town can plant itself and its friends; it needs to be the principle of public communication. I'm going to repeat this: Theonymity or the possibility of anonymity must be the principle of public discussion and public relations. If electronic identification of people involved in political discussions is required, there is a reason for this. There has to be some clear, legitimate and grammatical reason for that, and then there must also be exceptions for the reasons I have mentioned. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I just thought it'd be a good idea to get into this because there's magic technology and the lawgiver has a history of taking a step in the absence of all factors involved. I like this. I look forward to seeing it go through, hoping that electronic identification will be more used in the public as well as in the future by all the warnings I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u87	A respectable president. Just as the case earlier, about the limited responsibility of the host, this is a technical issue for electronic authentication. It's not hard to realize what it is, but a lot of people who are using electronic authentication are using it. The environment regarding electronic identification in Iceland is a bit strange as it is, since only one party gives it, but somebody else would have to pick it up by themselves, I think, to perform such a service. But it's only available in one place at this point and I want to review the technical issues and why they are important. There are two main problems, which may be possibly the case. Try to focus on it. As people may know, passwords are often leaked back and forth. They try to use encryption in another way, i.e. The user's password is taken and puts in a variety of maths to confuse that password, even added to try to confuse it even more, and out comes some of the characters that no one can understand and sees no passwords from that spell. If I were to get that number from a third party, I couldn't use it to sign myself into social media as the person whose password is employed by this one. I need the original password. More correct, I may need something other than the original password, but it may be a little too complicated to think about it, just as long as the result is spellting. After handling the password, the subject will enter a closed area. You cannot read from this spell block back into your password. It's called decryption. So that's the other way of doing this, in a sense, the electronic identification is in. Then each person has a personal identity key, while all others can access the official identity key of that person. If, for example, Yeah. paritaprevir So a Smári Mccarthy was going to send me a encrypted message, he could use my official encryption key, write some interesting messages, and lock them with my official key. The only way to unlock that message is with my personal key. No one else can use the official key to turn up and open the wrong way and see the original. This includes the use of electronic signatures to show that it was certainly me who signed the document. No one else could have done that because I had my personal key and made a choice behind it. This is important because, like a dog, it's important. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson showed that there is a need for encrypted communication just like anonymity because we simply live in an environment where there is a spy. It's just that way. We witnessed in Edward Snowdens's leathers, where public figures around the world are simply spying on us. We also know about e.g. elections recently, on Cambridge Analytica and the like, that we are being collected information, except for so-called meta information, about us. The practice of interpolation is on a large scale throughout the world. A coded communication prevents this material from being seen. But it is also possible to use encrypted communication in an illegal way. In the discussion a few years ago, there was a misunderstanding, such as Pornography on the Internet and how to spy on such uses to prevent people from viewing pornography online. It is natural a fundamental problem of understanding, for there can be a coded relationship between partners that would not allow anyone to see exactly what goes there between parties. Then the discussion suggested that all it had to do was ban encryption. Then we are in the pre-internet age, yes, before World War I, they've actually used encryption for hundreds of years. I think there are Roman encryption keys and the much older, all kinds of ways to lock messages so that no one else can read what is inside them. Therefore, it is important and positive to receive such legislation from sources that clearly have access to very technical advice because we have completely gone through the legislation process here, such as, for example, in the last assembly, where there was a law on bitcoin that did not seem to be a technical understanding of what it was and how to deal with it or define it in Icelandic law. It was a struggle to get people to understand what was being discussed. It looks fine. There are a number of factors in this connection with the sources of the Netosium that I am putting on certain question marks, but with the technical issue, I think that this is something that we are, unfortunately, relatively ill prepared to do well. I don't think we could do that, but we would have had to spend a few hours finishing it and taking advantage of all the little expertise we have in this country and getting help with it. It is quite positive to get this matter so well considered from the direction it comes from. I hope that the situation in Iceland's identity market will be better, and that there is a defined electronic ID as a certain public identification method, that it is actually done in the same way as any other, like a passport and such, publicly available, that there is an official person who is also responsible for it rather than private, which is the only person to be converted to. I think it's a bit confusing, and I don't quite understand why it's like that. But it's a very positive thing, and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u88	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a commission about bill change of insurance policy law, no. 30/2004, with subsequent changes. The Commission has discussed this subject and has contacted its representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the SEC. The committee received reviews from the F.A. and financial organizations, as well as the Ministry's memo. The bill suggests changes in the insurance policy laws, especially on the information-exploiting issues of environmental information and information between distributions insurance and insurance companies. The bill is intended to introduce to the Icelandic rights of the Council and the 2016/97 Council on the distribution of insurance, as well as the 764th case in the current council, a bill to legalize the distribution of insurance that will be expected to be considered below. The 1st Act of Subject 4. 10th par. The bill, changing 9. law on insurance insurance agreements, recommends the authorization of the UN to set the rules about food and monitoring when insurance is sold in stocks or services as part of a package or in the same agreement. In their review and meeting of the Committee representatives pointed out that there was no need to recommend such rules in a law where the Agency took guidelines such as this with a public letter and a path to their English publication on their website, but not with a specific protocol. This article explains that the rules would be based on the European Life Insurance and Penitentiary Guidelines (EIOP). The committee agrees with this indication and suggests the 1st case of Article 4. 10th par. ... goout. Other changes proposed by the committee are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Under the titled publications of President Óli Björn Kárason, Brynjar the son of Níelsson, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u89	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a commission on a bill for the distribution of insurance. The Commission has discussed the situation and has been contacted by representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Department of Economic Affairs, as well as the Department's memoirs. The bill suggests that new overall laws on the distribution of insurance will be taken into force and will replace older laws on the sharing of insurance, No. 32/2005. The Act will adopt the European Parliament and the 2016/97 Council on the distribution of insurance, as agreed by the European Commission, No. 214/018, October 26, 2018. In the c-mer 1.mg. 23rd par. The bill shows that a insurance salesman is not allowed in connection with a business enterprise has been judged for a criminal act. In his review the Association of finance companies made comments that this appropriate condition was non-term, pointing out that other laws would include rules where comparable conditions were required that the individual had not been judged for judicial action during the past ten years. In a memo to the Committee, the Ministry pointed out that in its comparable directives there was no time limit. Similarly, in similar terms in Danish and Norwegian laws, there would be no time limit, but it would be defined as the nature of the criminal offense detracting the individual's ability to have trust and to carry out his or her work in an adequate way. In consultation with the Ministry, the Committee suggests a change in the c team 1st. 23rd Article 3, as well as the comparable measures in d-d-d-d-d-d-d-dr. Twenty-two. and c-invent 1.mg. 24th Er, this is it. Forty-five. The bill shows that the SEC will supervise the operation of local branch offices in accordance with the regulations of the law. The Commission's review to the Committee suggests the rendering of 1 mg. This law will be modified and clearly stated on the basis of which the Agency has the authority to apply itself to the distribution holder under the directive. The committee agrees with the indication and suggests that, instead of 1 and 2 mg. 45. g. If there is one new paragraph where it must be specified that the SEC can implement appropriate measures, the Agency has reason to believe that the work of a branch in this country is not consistent with a healthy business method according to Article 32. ..................... mg Thirty-three. According to the bill, it gains the legal value of August 1, 2019. The committee has established a viewpoint on both, to speed up, or to delay the filming process. In a memo sent by the Ministry, the lead history of the bill is attributed to the European Commission's implementation of the Directive and its recording of the EEA Convention and concluded that there is no basis for postponing the bill further. In his review and at the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the FDA recommended that the bill be already valid. The representatives pointed out that 44 and 45 C.E. were necessary. The bill, for the monitoring of persons authorised by another Member State and for the establishment of a branch or services in this country without a operating post, would already be implemented, as if they were already working according to the implementation of the directive and became valid in the European Union on October 1, 2018. It would be unfortunate to see that the legal status of the national and foreign parties would vary to August 1. which also meant that consumers would enjoy different legal protections depending on whether they were doing business with domestic or foreign partners in this area. The committee agrees with these views and suggests that the entry of the Convention will be changed so that the law will already be accepted. The committee points out that for some time it has been prior to the adoption of the directive into Icelandic rights. Similarly, the Committee is aware that there is a time for domestic workers to adapt to a new protocol and to consider this in the implementation of observation. Other changes proposed by the committee are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above proposals made in a special Senate document. Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case, but under the writings of President Óli Björn Kárason, Director Brubber Níelsson, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Bordi Haraldsdóttir, Odnar G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Miss Mccarthy and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdotttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u90	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on Elements to adjust the Penitentiary of Pension Insurance and Department of Pension, No. 129/1997. The bill suggests that there will be an extension of a two - year period of payment on the payment of the special pension fund in connection with building an apartment house for its own use. The bill is part of the government's actions in relation to the biographers contracts of the labour market signed on April 3rd. The strategy intended to extend was originally part of the so - called correction and was intended to be temporary to June 30, 2017. Its time was extended by two years, with the law on buying at its first apartment, No. 111/2016, and now the plan is to extend the value period by two years a second time. It is important to note that representatives of the head of the government indicated that the management committee requires a large amount of time - consuming work at the office that will take the lead. their ability to perform other important tasks. This means that technical equipment in the implementation of the resource, such as computer systems and web pages, is dependent on many deficiencies, and needs to be updated. It cannot be seen on the bill or on the report by assuming the inevitable cost of office by the bill. The Commission has an understanding of the national taxpayer's indications in this regard, and it points to the Ministry that they will be considered for future work in the preparation of bills for budgets and budgets. According to this, the Committee proposes that the bill will remain unconvinced. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. The Harðardóttir signs that she intends to explain in a speech here, but under the defined writings that stand here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The members of the assembly, Chemur the son of Víglundsson, Bristur the son of Níelsson, the Haraldsdóttir of Bryndís, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, with a warning, say, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Silja Dögggi, the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u91	Mr. President. As noted in the case of an executive, I signed the Commission's opinion on the economic and business committee in advance, but this bill suggests that the current tax-free provision and the assessment of the additional fee for specialisation for the building of an apartment building for its own use, unchanged from the value of 30 June, will be extended by two years, to 30 June 2021. That's why I'm going to go over. The bill is designed to lighten the tax burden of a certain group of taxpayers for their housing. In order to finance it, the tax burden will be transferred and placed on future taxpayers. Getting the most out of options. The rural communities have protested inconsistencies and lack of counterarguities because of their loss of income, the bill is legally the law. In addition, the bill violates the main concept of the special savings system. Mr. President. It's quite a surprise, and now it's a question: Why is the one here not against the bill? To answer, when signing collective agreements, April 3 was written. Since this bill was promised to be approved by the bill, this is actually part of the collective agreement. The unions stress the fulfillment of that promise, and that's why the Conspiracy will approve the bill. But when the change was made at its time in connection with the so - called correction, we had doubts that it should be done with the special pensions just because of the reasons I listed as the source of the committee's opinion of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u92	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party in a so-called social security case. The committee has discussed this subject and has brought visitors to a meeting mentioned in the committee's opinion, and there is no need to read here. I think there is a reason to believe that the Commission received a joint report from the National Association of Iceland and the Organization of Employment, that is not as often as we can share information from these bodies, as well as from the company of professionals, district attorneys and tax investigators and professional and innovation's memoirs. The bill suggests changes to public penalties, partnership laws, private credit laws and the laws for auto-replaceing institutions. The bill is a factor in controlling the misuse of society's rules with limited responsibilities, which in the day - to - day terms are called social security, which are based on social security. in June 2017, the joint proposal of the National Association of Employment and the European Union on ways to match the social security network for employment, which was presented in June 2017. The Commission stresses that the bill is only part of the fight against social security and the preparation for further action. An article with the bill shows that contributions from the bill are being made to correct a change in the law on bankruptcy, etc., No. 21/1191, in the coming autumn Summit, where changes will be proposed to meet the proposed changes. The Commission has then been informed that there are other aspects of the Office of Employment and the European Union of Iceland that are considered in the Ministry. A- team 1st. The bill is suggested for a list of 1 mg. Section 262. a general penal law that states punishment for various tax laws will be added to 3 mg. 7. the law on the insurance policy of pension and the operation of pension funds. According to this requirement, the payer should leave behind the pay pay paid by the employee and give the terms of the pension as well as its share. The review of the tax investigator's history of this article's law in the general penalties from the fact that it was merely an accounting offense until tax violations were added by law no. 35/1995, with the goal of adding a warning effect and paying punishment for the serious tax offenses in penalties. Comments in a paper with the bill that became legal in 1995 show that 1st. Section 262. should be taken into account by the tax laws most relevant to tax fraud. Other tax laws and toll laws do not fall under the law, and it is preferable to feel that its standards are well defined in this respect. An tax investigator points out that with the conversion proposed with a-arms 1. g. The bill is suggested that pension fees receive comparable protection in the penalty laws of general penalties and taxation. An tax investigator pointed out that there are a number of differences between pensions and taxes. According to 3 mg. 7. law on the insurance policy of pensions, etc. the payer will leave and give up the share of payers in the pension fund. At the same time, the cash portion of the salary should be given. There's a difference in nature between these two factors. This is in the case of a remuneration agent who holds the punitive part of the employee's salary without paying for a pension fund and confirms that such a crime is under 247. g. a general penal law. However, if the payer holds back the share of the salary paid by the payer himself, he or she should pay in a pension fund is the debt of the payer to the pension fund. According to the tax investigator's review, these physical factors are balanced in the bill. According to the Agency, whether or not the obligation of the payer to provide a pension fund on his part of the employee's pay is to consider that it is the basis for neglecting this obligation to share the same responsibilities as the other factors listed in 1st. Section 262. a general penal law. In this context, it is reminded that repaying is not a penalty. As a result, I shoot in, a respectable president, that may be why putting the payer's debt on the pension fund in another category. Then the penalty would clearly be inconsistencies with a level of justice required of bankruptcy according to Article 112. Act of bankruptcy. More people, as well as in committee reviews, have agreed to the tax investigator's perspective and, according to the Commission's information, were subject to a hearing within the Department of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics. The committee proposes a-a team 1st. the bill, which shows a fracture against 3 mg. 7. the law on the mandatory insurance policy of pension is added to the list of fractions to be punished according to 262 st. General penal law, be removed from the bill. In view of the above facts, therefore, the measures taken will be taken to guide the revision. In agreement, the Committee proposes a B-involved 2. y., b-along 5. ... anda-a-armseight. fall away as well. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have considered here. Under the committee, this is a letter with me why. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Silja the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir, and Oddný G., the daughter of Harðardóttir, and Smári Mccarthy, the Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Gunnarsson, and Sigmundur the Þór of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who were absent from the case, signed this opinion according to the regulations of regular committees. A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, the committee emphasizes that this is merely one step in the fight against social security. These issues continue to be worked on within the council, as well as in cooperation with the European Union of industry and Iceland. Then I would like to stress the objective of this bill is, of course, to stem the abuse of the partner form and the job social security index. The bill builds, among other things, in the Treaty of the Governments where this is handled specifically, and particularly good cooperation has been achieved by the European Union of Employment and the National Association of Iceland, which strongly recommend the approval of this bill in its joint review. I'm not gonna have this any further. It's a good thing to do, but I'm going to deny that this is the first step by a number of people in order to reduce social security distances where possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u93	Mr. President. We will discuss measures to stop social security, which is a very important subject and I will welcome any action aimed at bringing down the disaster. That's why I celebrate this bill and repeat that, of course, this needs to be examined, as the committee's opinion shows, we need to go further, we need to examine them. This is a sensitive subject in many ways, where, on the other hand, people's professional rights and attitudes about healthy competition. Therefore, even if this bill becomes a law, it is vital that we continue to be examined. There is one thing I think about this bill, that there is a need to wait for a court-oriented position, i.e. if the person who runs a company was charged and subsequently sentenced for violation of 262.g. The penalties and the subsequent sentences can be sentenced to a job ban, if I understand the facts correctly. This may take hours, years and days. If I aim at the usual course of criminal justice, it could take two, three, four, even five years. The fracture can be very old, and the person can have started another business, even two, and go over more often, so I make a little remark about it that way is not very quick, but it's careful and that's good. We need to step gently to the ground, but I'll make a note of what this way is late. Those who run a business in a traditional and honest way are exposed to the competition of the parties that show up with some company, collect debts, live high and short, fall and leave behind debt debt rates, as has been a lot to discuss in the community. They have to be afflicted by competition with parties that in many cases seem to play the game of forming communities, driving them for a short time, leaving debts and running away with some kind of profit. This is the problem, and there is a natural impossible competitive situation for those who work in it, not for a day, but for a long time, and we must continue to work on it. I'm going to go to the top. Ministers and committees to continue this work and do not stop and try to find ways that are faster and more effective. I've always felt that the solution was hidden in that those who have lost their jobs and who are in charge, possibly managers or executives - they need to consider how far they go, and if they do it twice in a few years, they will automatically go to a job ban in a set number of years. I'm aware that the attitude I'm describing has been severe opposition. People have had professional rights. I think that view, though heavy roads, is not too much to weigh against the bad competitiveness that will be on the market in the others and in these sectors when people are playing this game, this so - called social security thing. Then I feel that this way would be quite realistic, although it is still better tailored to the idea I am to mention, which is by no means new and is not mine at all, but has often occurred before. I believe, Mr. President, it is necessary to look at this, especially in view of the fact that the process here is delayed, takes a long time, and gives men relatively quiet space to pursue activities that I think most of us are opposed and do not want to see in our society. Other than that, I hope this is just one step of many to present the language of social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u94	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech and review of this matter. The senator speaks of how slow the way that this is possible. I'm going to ask the senator and understand if it's not easy to answer the question, but I'm wondering if we know any avenues, perhaps neighbors, or other places that are faster, i.e. that it takes less time to take it. Of course you're right. A senator's competitive attitude toward those who do their job and try to do it according to all set rules is difficult when a person comes back and forth with a new identity in direct competition. We saw in the repercussions of the crash that at that point it seemed that financial institutions used some to survive and let others go into bankruptcy, at least they have been accused of such a thing. I also wondered, a respectable president, and wondered at what. A senator would have been tested somewhere on the idea that the senator presented, which I understand more have recommended, i.e. that if they are temporarily found guilty or aware that they are playing a social security number in some way, they will have some sort of a ban on their business. Is it known somewhere? Do we know examples of such things? Is the argument possibly related to the member of the Constitution the right to the individual's freedom? This is what I'd like to curious about last year's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is shown in a paper with the bill that compares with neighboring countries. Well, it seems to me, Mr. President, that in this way in some neighboring country, I'm referring to the northern countries, that there's an exhilarating fiscal ban immediately followed by bankruptcy. That's why I'm surprised to say that it's not here yet. I know why, I've seen, read, and heard the opinion of many senators, especially from Iceland's Independence Party, that this is so much of a violation of human employment freedom. Of course, you're right, but what I mentioned in my talk about the competition, which is totally unacceptable to companies who are competing with such parties. There are daily stories in society that people are competing with parties who play this game. They're not marked or anything, and they can't be distinguished, but they're there. People are competing with it in competition, completely unacceptable, in certain sectors, very common. It is also a wonderful loss every year, and it would be a research project to find out how much money the community itself, a government fund, loses on such practices. It can also be compared to the fine employment freedom that is likely to be compared when this becomes available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u96	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. What I'm wondering is who's really losing it. Now it's good to remember that the middle party, I guess, was. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, a 1st aviator of the case, issued a professional ban following such events. You wonder who's going to lose it. Don't wear, like a whisk. A senator says, to appreciate things? Which is more righteous, or which is more important, the right to pursue a job, the freedom of work which is an extremely important right, I hope that people don't get it wrong with me, against the rights of those who lose, against the harm that happens, whether it's social damage, damage to state funds, or harm to individuals who are competing with parties who are constantly involved in social security, which we call? What is the right of those who are damaged, indirect, or direct, when such things may happen all the time? As we consider freedom of enormous proportions - one of the basic users that we can be with a free and powerful society, it is that people have the right to practice employment and right to be part of a group, and all of it together - but not that individuals or those who are responsible for business management can do so over and over again even the same things, more and more by their conduct or by some pleasure. So it's a question of whether it's entirely appropriate for everyone to be involved in a business venture, whether or not there's one after two, three failures and social security travel, but there's something that can't be handled here by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Yeah, who's losing? I've come to that for a while. There's a lot of examples, and most of them know them. I'm not talking about all bankruptcy being caused by the noise of the party at all, far away. It is a well - known fact in the community that we see here and have seen, especially in troubled times, that men play that game. Some people have been shy about dealing with it. They're being handled with silk gloves. It's my idea that we're gonna let go of our jobs. If the same man is in the administration of a part-part society that goes astray, maybe twice in a five-year period, I would not feel free to work if a person was to be deprived of the right to enter such a society in a number of years. It's not a road to professional freedom. Man can be a worker, he can do other things. There's nothing to be taken away from him but being able to form such a union or be in charge of a society like this. Those who lose it are natural wagemen who work for such partners, and it lands on the land. Payers who sell material and goods to such companies, taxes, the sum of money falls on the state, and they don't collect. More important, this results in a general lack of confidence in employment, a general lack of confidence in business matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u98	V.E.G. President. I have to admit that I missed a case that discussed earlier because I thought there was no meeting at all. I came by. 16 without me discussing the President's conference board, I wish I could. I know that just before that, a matter of special interest was discussed. As a result, the praise of the government took up two, three cases presented by the Central Party. These include the matter of the specialease, which is natural cause of joy, and then the government brought up the bill that is presented here, of the landmark traffic, which actually does not go as far as the bill presented by the Central Party. Among the things that understand these two prime signals is that in the Central Party bill, it was assumed that if a person in charge or management of a company who becomes three companies who fail over an 18-month period, the same prohibition against managing companies for a period of time was not allowed. I remember that from a few independents in this discussion of professional liberation and individual freedom of mind, and they were so worried about it, including the highest level of concern. A president who now sits and had a case in his hands. It was not a sense of punishment that characterized our Middle Class bill. It was the well - known fact that social security is causing damage, not to other companies, but especially to our public funds. It has to be said, best I repeat it, I think I said that when I gave the bill for our Middle Class bill, that a person who loses a business or heads off, whether the word we use, three times in an 18-month period, he is conducting three companies in a row that has not lived for three merit tax periods, Mr. President. I'm not sure that anyone who has had to run a business, three pieces, who don't survive three sinks, each one, has a direct business address. I remember the independent partners here on this discussion talking a lot about innovation companies. Although not all companies are new when they are founded, not all companies in Iceland are newly created companies. This landmark disease is very common in the food business, and there is not so much innovation in it, not that fixed, only if some men invent new cocktails, but otherwise there is not much innovation in that industry. I would have felt better that the government had made its case a member of the Central Party. And, to make it all known, there was a case that had been remanded and was then taken from the second category, Karl Garðarsson and Vigdís' daughter of Hauksdóttir, who once belonged to another class, at least one of them, and also from other categories, I remember the course of action. Senators of Pirata and others. It was a good social network for that bill back then. Nevertheless, the government decided to protect the newer man from inconveniences and to allow the other one to float along and enjoy the doubt, those who practice what we call a serious identity travel, and not to be embarrassed, but to enjoy the doubt, not to those who suffer the injury. I can't remember the numbers anymore since I moved the other case in my own time, or I moved the story, but the damage to EU social security is worth tens of billions of dollars a year, according to the best of people. I'm reminded that a survey has been conducted among the managers of an enterprise where a large part of the executives of an enterprise caused damage to their enterprises by a social security network. Actually, I'm not saying this just to be boring. I'm trying to draw out that this case could have been made considerably better, considerably more sharp, and considerably more bitter. However, the government is naturally the same from three categories, and the threshold is not high, so, of course, the most cautious route was chosen. In my mind, the main thing is that it's done, that's good. Although the matter is watered down, it is natural, as the saying goes, better to wave the wrong tree than a hook. That's why we can do this thin trinket, Mr. President, even though the other one would have been better and more successful. We're here at 2nd. so there is still an opportunity for this issue to be addressed before the 3rd district. and they can record this and look into their minds whether it is not right to put in there some penalty rules for corporate bans for some time after a person has run a bankrupt business, e.g. 3 times in 18 months, i.e. An enterprise that has not lived for three years. I'm not entirely certain that companies are well-involved by men who can't run a business for more than three consecutive years in a very short time, so it's not necessarily possible that we would be harmed by some of the pioneers, even if they were possibly disabled by a park. I'm somehow skeptical that they were there, even though it had been done in that way, they were lying on the side. To say that, I rather expect to support this bill, although thin is because it's a good first step, Mr. President. Of course I believe it and want to believe that when people see the experience that there are some restrictions on this situation, they may see the results and possibly also the missing ones, so that soon there will be some penalty that humans cannot establish companies indefinitely and cause them to drop between ships and docks, society and other companies to ruin. I would rather encourage you, Mr. President, that this case would be reimbursed to the committee in which you will take one final move to add a set of terms that are relevant to the ongoing failure of your business through some form of management for some time. I would recommend that in this case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u99	V.E.G. President. It is all very important and reasonable to wonder whether things have gone far enough. Some may say that it is too much and all that. It is only natural, totally justified, that humans have different opinions or opinions on such matters as everyone else. Of course, all opinions - whether we like them or not - are entitled to them. These are proposed changes to general penalties, as well as partnership laws, private credit laws, and the laws of auto-replacers. It says that the bill is involved in the fight against social security and that further action is being implemented. The bill then shows that the bill aims to contribute a bill to legalize a change in bankruptcy law in the coming fall election. All of this is very positive that further steps are being taken. Work is made up of proposals from the National Association of Professionals and the Allied Union of Iceland. It's the foundation of these suggestions if I've understood all of this correctly. Although more opinions might have been developed, the talk has been good. I agree with the concern that it's not going far enough, that it may go even further. I also realize that the interstate is hard to find, when we want to punish, if we use that word, or when we want to limit the damage that lawyers, individuals, states, or funds can get when companies or individuals go through failures again and again, if that's the way it can be said. At the same time, we need to try to respect the individual's job freedom, to start a business. It's too bad if we develop our community to limit individuals and men to want to do this, but somehow we have to find this ball between us. Perhaps the solution is made by the Central Party at the time, the first carrier was quite a stranger. paritaprevir Þordað Sæmundsson, i.e. to aim for three times over an 18-month period, perhaps something else is better. It needs to be discussed. However, it is unnatural if we do not take the initiative that humans cannot do this over and over again. I reiterate, of course, that there must be some compromise. Then I'm going to make a comment to the changes being made on the bill. It is stated in the Committee that the tax investigator pointed out the difference between the payback fees, i.e. what the employee pays in a pension fund, and then counters the paypayer. There, the tax investigator, as I understand it, wants to distinguish it, and the committee seems to agree with it with the change. I don't think it's necessary because there's really contract rights that the payer is behind and that he pays for it. Of course, there is only a variation in the terms of what the payer holds out for the person, of course, due to the fact that mine also knows rights, property in itself, that the employee makes a contract and assumes to be accepted. He pays his contribution in the pension fund, confident that the payer will pay back the contribution. So I don't think there's a big difference in this in itself, and I would have thought it should be the same in the bill. At least I look forward to a better argument about why it isn't. I think this is supposed to be equal. Of course, according to the law today there are different interpretations of both. I recall talking about fraud other than that of another value. I watch it so that it's both rights and money, or what you call it, which has been negotiated in a certain way. They may need to be clarified. I thought this case was to put it in place, but the case is clearly improving. That's what I don't think we're arguing. It may be further and safe to rejoice that there are a number of aspects of the committee that are intended to investigate further measures, to develop this matter, and whether it will be listened to exactly what we have had to offer or not to improve that it should not be said to be stopped. I reiterate that everything we do will, of course, be that we do not detract from the will of individuals to create jobs and opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u100	V.E.G. President. I'm a little worried about the opinion of members of the Central Party, which I think is similar to when they were in the media. There's an old filing bill on this social security network. I've often asked, "What's a social security number? I ask a lot of people about this, but no one can really answer me what a social security number is. As the discussion continues, it turns out that social security is a failure, not to mention more than once, and more than twice. This was mentioned only in the speech of some. 8th yrs South, Gauti Hjaltason, my old school brother. I had a feeling it was the sheriff to talk but not the lawyer who's all by himself. This is very difficult, and there are two important factors that we must not forget. On the one hand, it is the administrative form of employment freedom that will not be so exhilarating and the importance of free societies that there can be a limited responsibility here. I'm not sure that the public realizes that this system of employment is a complete requirement for the free Western countries to overtake other communities in welfare. This arrangement is extremely important. Of course, it means healthy competition for people to become involved in the competition. This is a perfect prerequisite for this to work for some loss in this competition. It is very far in my mind to say that failure, whether one, two or three, different in the human discussion, means that you cannot pursue a business partner with limited responsibilities. There's a lot of people in business with a lot of companies. This is particularly evident in innovation companies where people take a high risk with their own money, which they know in advance, is quite likely to get lost. It is common for the same person to have three such companies going on at once. Of course, they can all fail in less than 18 months, even within a year. It is not that simple to say that if someone involved in a business operation goes bankrupt two or three times, he will be deprived of this responsibility. You will ask, of course, what can we do in situations where we sense that this form is being mistaken if men are taking risks with their own money, not with their money, but with the government's money? Of course, it is clear that we can take away these employment rights if they have committed a crime, i.e. wronged by not paying taxes, they've broken the law of serious partneries, they've broken something in penalties. , and then it's no problem. Who, then, is left? Are there any social security numbers that don't owe taxes? I'm sure there's not many of them. I've been thinking about this a lot. I've wondered if we can have laws of some sort in partnership law, bankruptcy, or any such law, where people can say that this is not a normal operation in harmony with our partner law, and that is a repeated violation, and then we can take away the job. Something like that is possible, it's definitely a problem to say, but I'm an old trader in Reykjavík for years, I've probably divided hundreds of swellings, I wasn't very busy trying to understand in general how people feel about the social security that they were only in this business to cheat the government. It is known, however, but it could always be applied to some offense. As a switcher, and then as a switcher after I became a lawyer, I repeatedly reported such a crime to the police, the tax investigator, etc. If the conclusion is that there is no point in breaking up, then there is no point in my mind to say, " Okay, here's a serious offense that we don't think that the person can do business with limited responsibilities for a while. Perhaps the problem is that the justice system does not handle these matters properly, i.e. that some may be minor in mind, put at the back, perhaps not so easy to inform except put hard work and men into such activities. I can see that we create an environment in which we deal with the situation that people who have been involved in business cannot get away with repeatedly breaking penalties, partner laws, and other laws because they just want to finish changing the nest and don't want to interfere. You might view this as a limited injury, etc. This may require a lot of growth in this system to handle this, but I'm more likely to see something like that than a poseti arrangement that if you go into bankruptcy three times, he's out of his job rights. I don't like that. I'd like to protect the important constitution of human rights and the importance of being involuntary and potentially hazardous. And I just want to point it out as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi said earlier about the contract rights, i.e. Pension rights. I don't agree with him in that, and I consider the contracted rights of payment in a pension fund nothing different than the contracting rights of getting paid for work. There's contract rights. I'm entitled to a fee for this remuneration, as all contracts are. If I've taken from you the money you have, right? Senator, but I haven't returned it, I've committed a violation of 247. gr. I've gotten my money. I've been getting paid for it. If a person has committed such a crime on a job, he is right to be deprived of any of these rights. We have to have some offense to take away the court's men. I'm not talking about when they're under constitution. That's how I watch it. I'm not sure, either, when people talk about damage to these bankruptcyes. Of course, some will be harmed. Tanks are being destroyed. It's part of this business. There'll be some damages, not everyone can make money in all business. That's not possible. People are being harmed because everyone is taking risks, including those who do business with them. Part of the free society, the free business, is taking a risk in that business. They never know if they'll be paid, they'll take the risk. Therefore, individuals in business make sure that the company is stable, whether the parties are reliable, etc. If humans are not trustworthy, have a bad career, it is easy to find out too. Then you say, " Don't do business with such people if you don't trust them. ' If you have your URL after a year, you are even more likely to do business with such a person. I don't know if the problem is as big as it is left in the discussion, but it's a real challenge to compete with such people who are only for a short time to get some money out and are so unconcerned about the company. That's the problem we're dealing with, but I don't think it's much in the overall situation, and when we see it, we can at all apply ourselves to some sort of offense that's supposed to be a penalty. All we have to do is walk all the way, and then we can say: Okay, there is a prerequisite for limiting this constitutionr's right to operate in a limited business. That's how I look at it. I think this bill is all right as far as it gets, but I want people to do better with how we can deal with this small group, which we sense even to get someone else to be in charge, which is all part of the cheating, we can say, and deal with it, let them be treated for it, and then make some posetive provision or something that can get out of the definition of this behavior. That's the way I watch it, the highest. President. I'm quite ready to be on a committee like this that can totally penetrate all the real problems we're dealing with. But we must not get ahead of ourselves and thus make it a point to be willing to take this risk with our own money, to put it all, to their money, to some and to their families, and even to others. So when things go wrong, they can say, "No, you can't do business here. I'm not there with you yet. Senators, but I'm ready to sit down with all of you and review what could be a real operation to cope with the small group that I say is on this for dishonest purposes. I don't think it's my job to get involved, but it's not enough for me to go bankrupt once, twice, three or even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u101	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I can't help saying that I agree, in fact, with the vast majority of people who missed it. A senator, especially since this is a problem. I think we'd all like to get the bastards if I could put it that way. The question is, where are they and how large this group is? At the same time, you think about it as a boy. At the beginning of his talk, a senator spoke about healthy competition. Enterprises A and B are in the same business, B has always offered her services and their products slightly less than A. B goes under the price of A. It puts an A in a lot of trouble because they don't get what they need for their services because they have to compete with BB. BB's going down, too. While it is A good time now, that he may be able to be worthy of his services, the new company will return to the same party and possibly some new businessmen with him. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has been referring to this also, that there is probably, and hopefully just a small group of people who practice this behaviour, and that will damage the competition. This will damage the freedom that we feel is so important in the commercial market, i.e. that an individual, whether in a innovation, some pioneers, or someone who goes to an old and well - known bissis, may assume that, in fact, someone can't always come and knock on his back and run out gradually. [[The president calls.]] It may well be that the solution we have spoken to us here is not the very best, but we find another solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u102	V.E.G. President. I'm just as worried as what. A senator in this regard. I'm very busy with healthy competition. They are not concerned about these matters, but they are not concerned that we have a government radio that can do anything about personal media. Is it a healthy competition? The company can only take money from taxpayers. What is a healthy competition? It's not healthy in many of my minds. We watch giant hospitals, such as Land Hospitals ◯ College hospitals, who can suddenly decide to have blood tests that others have been doing, and no one has a chance in the competition. That's not what I call a healthy competition. We can question healthy competition indefinitely. But I'm absolutely aware that sometimes it is unhealthy, and this fine example of B and BB is well - known. Still, you've thought that the market would correct something when B's in business and then you'll see that something was strange and all of a sudden you bring the same people into BB. Then why should I do business with these people? I can't answer that except for my part, if I lose on somebody, I don't do business with him again unless I have some insurance. I don't know how much trouble this is, but I'm still totally stuck in it, okay? A senator, that I don't want to deprive men of these rights unless I can show them that they've somehow gone out of the way of law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u103	V.E.G. President. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. Of course, if there were ever to be a violation of these rights, it would be important for a senator to prove that there have been laws and regulations. I don't think there's anything else you can do about it. I think that the reason people come over and over again and can live for a short time in this situation that I took earlier is primarily that those who buy services or products of such sources may look first in their own business. They may not care if they get what they're buying at a lower price, although they know that the person does not have completely pure flour in the sachet corner of his past because it is important to them to be able to buy something at 1,000 cents. Instead of 1,500 bucks. It is difficult to appeal to the fact that the market would correct itself in this respect, but clearly if someone was to be betrayed in business with someone, I would have thought that it would be automatic, and especially in a country where everyone knows it and it's very easy to know the history of people and companies as we know it. Finally, I just agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of being competitive in the media market. The national radio is a dinosaur that needs to lay down and quit, at least in the form it is today. It is also unusual for private health care providers to feel weighed at this time. This is not good, but it is something we should be able to use to create even better health systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u104	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree on everything. We agree that this is difficult, and we have a few exceptions. I would have thought that in such a small community where everyone knows everybody and people have some career, of course, that the other people in business are not stocks or anything else, they don't lend them anything but against some sort of insurance policy. This leads to some extent automatic, but it is equally annoying even though a person may live short of some treacherous way to harm a healthy business life. If there's any law on how this business has damaged healthy competition and a healthy business life, I'll say: "Yes, you've broken it, and then I can put you in some kind of professional ban. All I have to do is build this. I cannot accept such a objective rule for someone who has been linked to, founded, or owned by a company that has gone two or three times and therefore must not be in business. I don't like such objective responsibility. That's just what I'm saying. I hear a lot of the discussions, and you've heard it over the years that many people believe that bankruptcy is some kind of penalties per se, but the absolutely essentials for economic production, tools, and that people take risks are having communities with limited responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armourer of Níelsson's son for his excellent inwards. Of course, it is not every day that we enjoy the knowledge of a former business manager in many parts of the world that is truly commendable. For the most part, I can agree with it. A senator arrived in his talk. Of course, it is sensitive to say that a person who goes bankrupt is some sort of thief. It's delicate, and I think I've just come to my speech that it's not a simple thing at all. Secular freedom, of course, is government protection. The way you put it here is very slow. Hv. A senator felt that it was because the system was just not efficient, that it needed men, or that it needed research. You're absolutely right, too. That is why I would ask my first question to address it. A senator will do this in neighboring lands, i.e. in the North. It is stated in the report with the bill that elsewhere, such as Sweden, zero society is not a requirement for professional bans to be considered, and thus action can be taken earlier. In Denmark and Norway, job bans are considered solely for failure of society. I've had my counter-election, but it's assumed that the exchange manager will be taken directly to the state and that the district will set up a job ban.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u106	V.E.G. President. It's not quite simple. They have been considering the situation in neighboring lands and have found it hard to get involved. Of course, the switchers are key to investigate whether there has been any abnormal activity in this business that is then incompatible with partner law by some company law, etc. They've been having problems with this for a long time. I have understood this so that prior to the implementation of a job ban, people have always considered that there was some sort of violations or violations of the law, not merely an objective union that went into bankruptcy or was being run over there, the manager or something. It's just what I'm trying to warn people, to have an objective rule that has to focus on a number of failures at a certain time. That doesn't tell me anything. I've always been such a man that I admire people who have mattresses, who are willing to take chances to create valuables, and I don't want to punish them if there's any bad luck. It's just part of the free society in which we live. If people don't follow rules and compromise them, and maybe we can make some rules, too, so we can still improve the environment, there's no mercy for Magnús when I'm on my side. I can get really cranky when I see something like that and I was a really bad switcher when I saw something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He says he was cranky. It's just not enough being cranky. We've got to have some resources to keep this thing going. I worked around these things for a long time, and I became a lot of people like that. A senator himself. We've got to figure something out. Here's a plan, as good as it is, and as far as it gets, it's very slow and slow. A senator knows that. He knows that we need to find something faster, and he mentioned that he was ready to sit on such a committee that would cover this. I agree with him, and I'm ready to join him. I may have had other experiences but what? Senator, maybe on the other side. This is unacceptable from competition. We have to be careful not to interrupt innovation in business, I agree with what. A senator there. The way that we are going to the North countries, it seems to me to read a piece of paper here, is that in most of these countries, a switcher will take over when a business is taken for bankruptcy, in the case of suspicion, for either a special law of bankruptcy such as Norway or just for the court that has decided to be exonerated after looking at the data and setting up a professional ban. It seems to be a very fast route. Of course, the Court will make a logical decision in this regard, and I think we should take a much better look at such a route and pursue it on grounds of competition. Like what? A senator came to be a competitive force for progress. I agree with that, and of course we're not supposed to keep our job free.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-04-116.u108	V.E.G. President. This has proved to be very good for a member of the council here. But it is true that we need resources, and we need quicker measures. I can, without having thought of it through, see some kind of remedy in bankruptcy that the exchange manager assesses whether or not the rules were taken that are so serious that it is true that men are not authorized to work with limited responsibilities and that they are being handled directly in court. That can be part of it. I think it's okay to look at it. What I'm just saying, huh? A senator is that I don't want to have any objective responsibility because societies have gone bankrupt, and no one claims that a violation of that operation was committed, but only because it was a bankruptcyal surgery is a professional ban. I'm not there, it's just what I'm saying. The discussion is often that way. I can see a switcher going over the case. Was there anything abnormal? Was there any objection to competitive law? Were social subheadings obvious or something like that? Then it's just a violation, and in such circumstances, I'm not talking about if it's serious, it's possible to dissociate anyone to engage in a business with a limited responsibility. It must also be possible to trust others. Trust is so important in business. When it is abused, dishonest, not telling, or breaking in some way, this whole system is to be responsible. [[The president calls.]] Everyone is to be responsible if they do something wrong.
