ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u1	President of the United States reports: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet at the subsequent meeting on Monday, January 21, 2018. 15th All units, January 17th, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I'm gonna ask why. Senators and presidents welcome to serve again and look forward to the cooperation ahead of the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u2	Hv. All council members. The General is now meeting for a subsequent meeting after Christmas break, and I'm giving everybody a treat. All members and members of the General Assembly welcome. It is not that the last few days have been easily laid. That is how you found members of the council last week and also members of Congress. We can expect a busy period of time at the winter Summit when large issues arise in the hands of the Generals. Although there are many of the issues we have yet to discuss, I hope that we will succeed in continuing the fine cooperation that prevailed here in the autumn Council. It would also be a good likeness to keep Congress work within the framework of the General Work Programme, as we did so well in the autumn Summit. I have once repeated the importance that members of Congress can organize their tasks according to the Parliament's work programme, that the work programme is disproportionate and published in time, thus being part of improved planning and increased awareness of the activities of the General Assembly. In this regard it is also important that the Council of the Council have regular and good information on the issues the Ministers intend to submit to the council. It is, therefore, a pleasure to know that during this election period, it has come to the highest standard. The prime minister has a meeting of consultations and information with the chairman of the council on such issues, especially the development of the Government Constitution. I'm celebrating this will of the highest order. Minister and consider a large improvement in the positive development of mutual information sharing between the Commission and the legislator. Like what? Allied members of the council are aware of changes in the law of the Parliament and the expense of making a legal frame around the appointment of members of Congress. As the number of members of Congress is increasing during this election period, additional assistance may be made to members of Congress, but this arrangement is expected to strengthen the general Assembly and its work. I want to know what. Councilmen since the Commission has agreed to change the rules of registration of the general financial interests. These changes include in explaining the role of the General Assembly office to advise and advise members of the Parliament on how to address the violations of a failed senator to register his interests. There is then a provision for registration of members of the Parliament's debt, a Swedish and Finnish role model. Debate debts, responsibilities, and other responsibilities related to real estate or employment and are higher than monthly contracts. The changes will take effect on February 1. And let the senators who agree with the above rules of debt and responsibility record them for May 1st. Hv. The members of Parliament will be provided with more information about these changes in the near future. Later, at this meeting, there is talk about politics and projects ahead of us. It is a joy to see that the practice of starting a meeting after Christmas break with such a general political debate between the leaders of the classes and with the opportunity to introduce the debate to respond. I want to have my final words here at the beginning of the winter council that I hope we can do our work in the coming weeks and months to have a good and upbuilding cooperation, to unite in showing kindness and respect, even though we can handle matters and on such grounds bring good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u3	As it was announced on the II Web site, Jóhanna Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir sat on September 15, 2019, as an assistant to Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, and then Ellert B. Schram, of a council, turned aside as his assistant. A letter then received from the Council of Pirata that Hrafn Gunnarsson's Sanctuary cannot attend next. As reported on the Generals' web, Sara took Elísa Þórðardóttir, 2nd Lipper of Pirata's list of smokers. A seat for him on January 15th, which has been announced in advance by a deputy of 1 strategist. Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir and Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir have once sat at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work. A letter from Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Onvardsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, and Birgir, the Þórarinsson of Thorns, has been received that they can't do Congress in the near future, where they will be absent in public affairs. So today, on Monday, January 21, we are taking our place at the General Assembly, where the 1st Special Agents of Pirata, Smoke. s., Olga Margrét Cilia, 2nd Vice President of the Northeast United States Society. "Bjartur Major Aðalbjörnsson, but the 1st deputy has announced in advance, and the 1st Lipper of the South Company's Art, Elvar Eyvindsson. Olga Margrét Cilia and Elvar Eyvindsson have taken their first place in the Council and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u4	Bjart's Book of the Bjartur Aðalbjörnsson has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his seat in the Council and must sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u5	The Career of the Chief Bjartur Aðalbjörnsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u6	The president wants to announce that he has received a word from Pirata's Congress on the change of men in committees, such as the 16th chapter. Congress, so that Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir takes up the Helgi Djörn Hrafn of Gunnarsson in the General Information and Education Committee, and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, will take the place of the Ævarsdóttir Magistrate's daughter in the trade board. With no objections, let these changes be considered approved without a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u7	The president wants to announce that in a letter dated December 21, 2018, the president has requested this, as shown by the 8th number 1 mg. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with a report by the National Reconnaissance on Fishing Agency surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u8	Borist has received a letter from the following advisers asking for every request to give written answers to queries, from the foreign secretary for the application of this letter. 748, for the protection of the ocean systems, from the Brynjarsson, from the travel, industrial, and innovation ministers for the management of puzzles. 772, for eco-friendly employment tools in the management of the institutions under the Ministry, from Sirobar's Óttarsson Proppér, and on deck. 576, on charges and treatments, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, from the marine economist and agricultural minister for the management of the tributary. 570, on charges and lawsuits, from Birni Levi the son of Gunnar, and finally from the social and child - care minister for the inquiry of the panel. 763, for the number of social standings, from the Snæbjörn of Brynjarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u9	It is a meeting arrangement that allows for the presidents of all political parties, or their surrogates, to proceed with the discussion, with ten minutes each. Butts shall be permitted. If more than four members of the council wish to give an answer, there is still some greater rules, so that all governmental groups will be able to give a reply to government officials and will then be reduced to one minute in both cycles. The order of the classes will be as follows: Left moving a green supply, the Conspiracy, the Central Party, the Independence Party, the Piratars, the Propulsion Party, the Exhibition and the Class of the People.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u10	Mr. President. I come up here under President's conference board to point out the obvious. I am one of two senators, who wrote a letter on December 3 of that year. They announced to the president that they would be assigned to noncombatant councils and cooperate with them. At the same time, I am not harmed by a special consideration for this mutual position in the work of the council. Today, political debates are taking place. This is our business since December 3rd. We have no answers. The answer to the president and the prime committee is obvious to us. There will be, and there will be no consideration for this mission. At this political debate, we are not assigned one minute. This is unacceptable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u11	Mr. President. I come up here to describe a surprising memory and frustration with the president's decision to represent two independent noncombatant members who, with cooperation, will not be assigned as much as one minute of the day's discussions as possible, unless they do. On the part of the Generals' office, we were invited to give a five - minute talk that we were delighted to give, but we respond that shortly before the discussion was due to begin, the president's decision that our representative, the one standing here, would not be on the rosary. I don't blame anybody in this subject, and I don't blame Aldulis's office at all. I had the hope that the president would like to be the president of all members of Congress, so I gave him my vote in the Presidency. But I must admit that today's President's decision, as well as the many others we have recently made, has not strengthened my faith in them. The words of a president in his speech above, of kindness and respect in the relations of members of the council, drew my attention, and thinks that I understand their contents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u12	The president only wants to inform us that the president was not granted any requests for participation. Senators in the discussion. The message never got there, so when this discussion was resolved on the scene of the council officials, there was no such request. For this reason the president does not feel that he can change the agreement that had been made on the discussion and the frames that applied to it. President's name is why. Therefore, members of the Parliament, as is their right, to form a discussion about Prime Minister policy, kitchen day in spring, and other events, will be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u13	Mr. President. Many matters could be discussed here at the beginning of a new spring convention, we can say. I'm going to make two cases of publicity, and I'm not going to use my minutes to go on long list. First of all, I'm going to discuss only the post at the labour market, and secondly, just discuss the position with the review of the Constitution. In recent weeks and months, labour markets have been major and will continue in political discussions. There the government has done a great deal of work to strengthen the conversation between the labour market and the government. The 14th meeting of these parties will be held tomorrow and will be presented with the results of a group of campaigns on the premises I ordered for Christmas. We have expressed our keen desire to find solutions, especially about housing opportunities but also about other matters, such as tenants' rights and protection, the entrance of those who are buying their first property, and more. It's a priority. This is one of the priorities of the labor movement. The campaign group will present their results tomorrow. For two months now, representatives of state, rural society, professional drivers, and employees have served together. They will make suggestions for solutions. Clearly, the need is considerable; it has been diagnosed in the range of 5,500,8,000 apartments. Taking into account the existing building site, it can be said that there are about 2,000 missing apartments in the next few years. We need to work together to solve this problem, and we need to ensure adequate housing for all of us. In the following year, the government will also present its proposal that tax system changes, but in the context of the renewal of collective agreements less than a year ago, the government announced the changes to the income tax system would aim to meet income groups and lower intermediate groups. I have high hopes that any suggestions we will see in the near future, both in terms of the tax system and in housing, will be paid to land collective agreements successfully in the labour market. The third thing I'd like to mention in terms of collective agreements is social submersion, a non-endurance lesion in our community. To such offenses, there should be clear penalties. The Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs is now working on proposals to prevent social subsidies. At the same time, a new program of action must be considered against the man-salter who is in the hands of the Minister of Justice. At that time, travel, industrial and innovation ministers are working on a prime measure of action against social security. All therefore aims to build a healthy workforce together. I must think that already the government has contributed to the public's standard of living, which is important for these collective agreements. This spring, we raised payments from a non-employment insurance fund and a remuneration fund. Both are important now, especially for those who suffer the disaster of losing their jobs when the economy is slowly growing, e.g. in the many reports we have seen in the last few weeks and months. Other changes have been made when advice has been submitted. This was in common with a committee that served as representatives of the government and personnel of the workforce. The future structure of the highest office is now a contingency treatment and is aimed at making it a more efficient and predictable arrangement in line with what is practiced elsewhere in the North countries. I think there's going to be a lot of progressive steps. Children's reforms were also made before Christmas. New 1.6 billion were introduced into the system, which makes child - care programs rise in income shortages, and some 2,200 children entitled to child reform. The upper and lower limit of the income tax system was set to ensure an increase in equation and personality discount was increased above the prices. Since then, I have accepted the demand of the labor movement that it is normal for economic and social stability to be discussed at the table of a new national body. ASI, however, has not yet agreed to take up national employment, but representatives of the public employees in the labour market and professional drivers have taken advantage of such ideas. By doing so, we would form a domain of the government and the personnel of the labour market, where we would discuss these issues together, i.e. how we can achieve economic and social stability goals. Part of a debate over dresser, benefits, and better is the database that we now open for the weekend, the income history.is, where arrangements have developed from the data of the past 25 years, where social mobility can be considered in which different groups come out when it is taken into account. Interestingly, since the opening of the web on Friday, 15,000 people have visited and studied it, showing that such evidence is of great interest in having access to it. They are absolutely necessary for discussion to produce real results. Having real information, facts available, and opening up everyone, is a key factor to that fact. A respectable president. The officers have now had nine meetings for the Constitution, but at the beginning of this terms, I proposed that we would complete the constitution of the Constitution in two terms, this and the next. In addition, a work ethic was proposed, i.e. how the subjects would be handled, in what order, and how the work would be carried out. At our last meeting, which was held that way. Thursday, I made a revised note of how my work has developed. Clearly, discussions about one subject vary in length. Some things we've been discussing for decades. I present as an example of national resources regulations. Also, much has been discussed with regard to environmental protection and national law on the payment of authority. These are the matters that we first set out for the presidents and representatives of the clans, but these are not the only ones. Furthermore, we have considered the presidency of the Constitution and the post office of the constitution. I've said I think this job went well. Official discussions in recent years may have focused mainly on the books of the individual committee, on their visions and opinions on the Constitution, and in fact, I believe that almost all presidents had either booked or accepted the books of others in recent meetings. But the work is the least about these books. I strongly emphasize that we, sitting at this table, presidents and political parties at the General Assembly, participate in this work with all seriousness, make good recommendations for the changes in constitution, and that they will be consulted with the general public, not necessarily the same agreement on different proposals. Many things we will be able to do with our consultations, we can add to our arguments, and we have discussed the subject of polls. It is important that we use the terms of the election as far as the work goes, for history shows us that changes in the constitution or proposals of those who are introduced in the General Assembly during the last few weeks before election are not realized, including: ... fora conflict of non-related issues. There's really nothing to stop me from just offering my own proposal for a new constitution. Of course, I can't rule out that if I don't get along well with a change in the constitution, but it's my sincere conviction that these changes will be better if we discuss them together and work together with them, although we all have a different view of how much to change and how to change. I don't think that the constitution will produce a lot of results stuck in holes where either any change or valid constitution is a sacred word or a vision that the suggestions given at its time by a government law are sacred words that cannot be changed. There are a number of aspects of the existing constitution that need a review. The proposals of governance differ greatly in the community and are often thought - provoking. However, it is important that we accept what was asked of us in the 2012 National Bank, U.S.A. whether the public wanted to base on the draft that the board of administration had provided. It is important that we have these suggestions to guide us. But I'd like to say here that politics owes the public a change to a constitution and that it has to do with the work of the past few years. But in order for these changes to work, the Allied Parliament has to accept them. Hence, it is truly important to reach as wide as possible a solid solidarity on such changes. The most important things to the public in this country are real changes to the future, not the harsh times of the present. Real changes to both the public and the environment are long gone. [[The president calls.]] This year, as we welcome the 75th anniversary of the republic and the current constitution, I think we have a great opportunity to prove that politics is ready to do its part in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on housing matters. This suggests that the Group's operations program on housing was discussed at a meeting of the Health Committee this morning. To this end, representatives of the labor movement, economics, and the Agency expressed interest and positiveness toward the labor movement. These are the suggestions the Conspiracy proposed in the autumn in the form of an eight - team arrangement. The government has completely ignored these suggestions, even though it will be discussed in cross - line consultations and cooperations. The prime minister described some of the government's aims in housing, which is very good in the organization's suggestions. But I'd like to ask if I've never thought of the highest. Prime Minister to use current United Nations proposals or heads to let the government stand against the table in such a major matter. I'd also like to ask why, in the immediate fall, that work has been drawn so long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists the discussion of this important matter party. First, I'd like to say that I don't view my job as being late as possible. Social and child-friendly minister has had his mortgages and put on a lot of work. I'd like to mention three things: a future housing policy, a first purchase, a team designed to offer suggestions on how those who are buying their first estate will be better able to get into that market, and then a group on the affairs of the camp loans. I referred to the suggestions given to the campaign group on housing matters. I have no doubt about it, though. A senator believes that a certain ignore has taken place, I know the input of the Continental arrangement, that there will be a set harmony with what a group of housing groups will suggest. Of course, the big thing is that we will succeed. And it's really important in that, just so I'm saying, just because we're out of time, that one of the things we've been through is that we also need additional information on housing so that we can shape our policy to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Now it seems that a community group is in the eye with a flash over the bank sale and has the highest. In fact, the secretary of finance said that it is best to start the sales process before the end of the election period and to refer it to a government contract. In contrast, the majority of the country's inhabitants have a positive view of the state's ongoing involvement in banks. What is the position of the prime minister on sales in Iceland and the large share of the Lands Bank? Does she, like her associate in the government, consider it desirable to start a trade process during the term?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u17	Mr. President. Thanks again. I would have liked to continue talking about the house - to - house affairs, but it is also nice to discuss only the bank sales. The Treaty states that it is reasonable to plan to reduce the country's holding of the State's share in banks, ending in the United States a larger part of domestic financial systems than in other European countries. However, such sales are not planned for today or tomorrow. The reality is that white books were attacked on the financial system. There are some suggestions on how we can improve the legal and financial system, which, of course, have taken big changes in recent years, suggestions that I consider correct and important. I'd like to mention a protective line between investment and business banking which is one of the things I've put on so much importance. There are other suggestions to be done, e.g. In terms of increasing financial cooperation in information technology in a completely different world. However, it is not a matter of remuneration that since we have made the changes necessary by the Council of the Council for some part of the State's ownership of the financial system, as the Treaty clearly states. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've said for myself that I think it's normal to start with Iceland Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I noticed that when she spoke with the labor movement, she did not mention one point that a particular part of the labor movement, and maybe a wilder one, has spoken extensively, i.e. interest and removal of index or change in index base in public-secured loans. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister as to whether this was not part of the discussion, since a previous indiscriminate proposal was adopted and an answer was due to be made on December 1. Either I've missed the answer or I haven't. So I'd like to ask the Chief Minister. Whether the matter has not been discussed in the so - called consultations and whether it is intended to be accepted in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. However, a senator responds that I allow myself to make a comment to the use of the word to speak of a so - called conference. This has truly been a meeting that I don't know the precedent for in my history at the World Council. I would like to reiterate what I said in my speech, it is very important that we make a clearer presentation of the conversation between the work force and the government. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator said that I mentioned three things that might have been of great importance in this conversation. This does not mean that other matters have not been discussed. Among them has truly been the subject of insurance, and housing in a consumer science has been discussed. There is some evidence that in preparation there has been a report on this issue by the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. I believe she is to be expected in this month, January. She was due in December, but she was late in January. I expect that as a result, we will take that matter up for discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. It is shocking that the report on that matter did not appear earlier because I think it must be a major candidate for achieving agreements that everyone accepts, that there will be some mistake in terms of growth and compensation. I cut by the highest. Minister also spoke of measures against social security. It flew for last week that the government was involved in the preparation of a prime rule against social security in February. It may be that in the autumn months, the Central Party proposed a social security bill, so the question is: Is the government creating a less sensitive version of that bill? Would she not like to take advantage of the fact that a job has already been done and that it is possible to deal with the problem of a social network?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u21	Mr. President. Happily, many good ideas are born at the General Assembly. Hv. A member of the Conspiracy tore up their proposal for housing action, and as I mentioned earlier, I have no doubt that there will be an excellent harmony there with some of the provisions offered by an action group on housing. I don't know exactly what the Central Party's bill is about the actions against social security, but I'm sure we agree on the goal, which is to fight social security. I have no doubt that there, too, we will be able to find good harmony. As I said in my talk, it is very important that we get together to build a healthy workforce. In our own good society, we are not expected to experience social subspecies, social social social security, and social identification, as well as other factors that actually cast a shadow on the entire labour market, even though there is only a small percentage of people involved in practicing it. It's important that we establish a solidly developed and effective position against such things, and I'm glad that the Central Party has established that issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u22	V.E.G. President. More than six years have passed since a national agreement agreed that a government bill would be submitted to a new constitution, such as the Supreme Court. Prime Minister mentioned earlier. The results of that vote have been natural, as most of us know, as good as ignoring every street ever since. Written by the nation, the Constitution is given to those in authority who will keep them in line for work and work. Councilmen shouldn't be scrambling the paper themselves, it's very unnatural that they do it. Likewise, they do so under lack of transparency, which is now taking place. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if she has plans to correct at least the object of the transparency. Then I'd like it to be overreached as much as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said in my speech, and I know that we don't all agree on that, it's my firm opinion that it is very important that we complete a certain change in the constitution during this term and the next. I don't think we're going to finish them if we're going to attach ourselves to the fact that nothing can be changed or that the board of administration can't be changed. I'd like to remind you that in the National Bank, it was asked if it was intended to be based on drag rather than on whether we should accept it. I would also like to remind you that unless we agree to it at the General Parliament and if the next council approves it, according to the current constitution of the Constitution. That's reality, and within it I think I'm working. As for the transparency, I'm gonna tell you what. A senator: Yes, we can do better. It was considered at our last meeting that we would publish our work documents and work data so that the public could gain more insight into what we are discussing in those meetings. [[The president calls.]] I hope it'll work out soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to hear clearly. I have found the terms of this government, the remainder of the term, the future. That in itself is a very enjoyable experience, and hopefully we will see that the long - term thoughts of the council are further involved. In the bill of the Council of Government, there is a beautiful provision for the national language. It says that 10 percent can demand national law that the General has approved. It's, like, the highest. One prime minister says, the future of a new constitution, a realistic estimate that there is some time for it. V.E.G. Earlier, the prime minister said that she had the authority to make certain arrangements if she viewed this as a means for the people. That is why I would like to ask directly about democracy, such as the above - mentioned regulations and those regarding trust. V.E.G. The prime minister has placed great importance on political trust. [[The president calls.]] I believe that such a law would increase confidence in politics and that it might bring more peace to politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. But I want to be rights. I didn't say I could put in my own constitution changes. I wanted to make suggestions for them myself. Of course, they'd always be on the side of all of you here. I think it's important that we make it a point to have this conversation between different viewpoints, between different political parties, about the change in the Constitution, and thus offer suggestions that we consider most likely to create that solidarity in the nation. About what question? One of the things we put first in our work, the local senator, to discuss how it should be handled, i.e. that the public can demand national fees for an approved law at the General Assembly. I've wanted to set priorities, that we especially look at it, but another law that I think we should pay attention to is a so-called national principle. [[The president calls.]] It's been recorded, not necessarily by a constitution, in the countries around us, and it's led to a case in the program of the Parliament with very remarkable results, just to be said here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u26	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for the talk. The nature of the matter could not be discussed in a very large number of subjects. I want to kill on three. In view of the fact that the government is largely united in its cooperation, I would like to ask, firstly, about the banking system and the White Book, asking that it be clear whether it is a prime plan to start banking during the season and to what extent. Is the agreement and harmony within the government that there will be a significant change in tax returns and road construction within the country? Although there is a strong hand in what is actually being suggested, is there a consistent approach to the method used in an attempt to present it? [[The president calls.]] Is monologue within the government involved in that matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He said he was going to ask me three questions, and I got two. I was right, wasn't I? On the one hand, it's the banking system. I made it very clear earlier that in the government covenant, it is in the government's contract to reduce the government's holding of financial contributions. That's where I've said I think it's right for us to prioritize property shares in Iceland banking. I have also made quite clear that first, the White Book must appear, as well as the Council, take their stand on the suggestions for making changes that are not part of the work that has been done, i.e. The introduction of the European Regulation, which is still very important, to the financial market, may be just beyond that rule. That's very clear. On the other hand, we need to realize that all of this may take time, but it is written quite clearly in a government covenant. As for the tax recovery of traffic, my time has passed, but I'll try to find out that as well as the answer to the third question in the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u28	Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I understand that it is essential for a bank to be able to change a particular rule of action first, so it is conditional to have some changes in order to be made before the sale. They talked about selling possibly a part of Iceland bank. They didn't call it Landsbank. I wondered if it is deliberately. The third is the easy question in these answers. It's about whaling. A significant report on national economic recovery has just been published and is now being considered by men on the basis of this report and material. Some have made quite a point of saying things there. Who's heading for the highest. Prime Minister about whaling at Iceland? Is she pleased with this report?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u29	Mr. President. Since there is no decision on how to properly sell property items in banks. However, there is evidence that the government agrees that it is a reasonable goal and that it would be good to reduce the government's holding on finance. There we have talked about priorities. That rules out not to make any sale in Iceland if a buyer is found, because of that. A senator asked about things. But this is policy. Of course, we need to consider our circumstances. Hv. A senator asked about tax charges. The terms of the government covenant are not specifically addressed. However, it has the highest. A secretary of transportation has begun a study of how we can look to the one way in which we can speed up projects to meet the great cumulative need for transport and how we are going to deal with the fact that we are looking at a change in the financing system of transportation. [[The president calls.]] I think it's normal for us to take that up for a good discussion at the council and find the best ways to do it. [[The president calls.]] For whaling I have said that very important is the evaluation of the foundation of the whale fishing of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I know the report's still there. A senator will be given a discussion on a professional committee tomorrow, and I expect it to be taken up for a thorough discussion in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u30	A respectable president. Thank you for your discussion. I'd like to ask her. There are currently agreements ahead, and minimum pay demand is 420,000. so people get 300,000 bucks. paid. Wouldn't it be better to raise the person's discount, get him to what he was three decades ago, so people get 300,000 bucks? tax and inadequacy? And I'd also like to know: Is the government calculating the minimum wage in this country so that people can live with dignity and not in poverty? If that number does not exist, is it being calculated? Or is it trying to figure out what people need in order to live with dignity and not in poverty here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Now it is so, as indicated in my speech, that the changes we will make in the tax system are intended to meet those with less income, lower intermediate income. Hv. A senator asks about the character discount. I just want to say that I think it's important that we look at the tax system in general, so we're going to make the benefit to these groups. In fact, that is the goal of work. There are different ways to do this, but this is the goal of your work. Of course, for all in these income groups, it is important that the tax system meets them. With regard to that question, why? Of course, the senator's value of living has been made clear to answer it through the progress of the Ministry of Health, i.e. adaptive and consumption criteria. Of course, this is not exactly the same as identifying where we can then define poverty, which is basically another discussion. There are some factors, but then we have studies that show that too many people live in poverty. We know each other, for example. A report on the poverty of children, so I name it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. We have a calculation of what it takes to live. It's called an artist's salary. I'm happy for artists who get over 392,000. ... onthepayof taxandinadequate. And I'm asking myself, " Isn't it a standard that we can give to pensioners and working people? ' We've got a large group of cripples, 70%, nearly 150,000 bucks. which is then totally impaired and the tax. I say, there seems to have been a reference made, and luckily for artists who are hot, but I ask myself, " Isn't there an equal? ' Imagine if we took this for observation and put it in now, 392,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. I'm sure pensioners and cripples would be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again. Only to finish what I said earlier about the consumer policy or the Ministry's implementation criteria. They may not be exactly what they are. A senator asked that they are more specific criteria that define typical consumption. As I said before, they don't define, e.g. what constitutes poverty or wealth if it is so. But an artist's salary. Yes, I'd like to mention that artist's pay is not tax-free. They're supposed to be contractors for a job, like I know this world. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, yeah, they're contractors, and they pay tax to artists. They are given for three months, six months, or nine months - there are not many who receive a salary longer than this year - and are marked with certain tasks. Hv. A senator asks: " Is it something that we can apply to everyone? Well, that's at least all the other thinking behind the artist's salary, for they focus on the fact that an individual or group can complete an assignment and receive certain payments, which, as I said, pay taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u34	A respectable president. Of course, it is all too much to say that life is a handball, although at times we may feel that way. However, politics might be compared to the handball that takes over and exchanges for offense and protection. In politics they deal with those who are thinking about society from the greater interests of the public and those who are looking out for special interests. They will succeed in which justice and fair and practical balance in society is the greatest and so do those who do not consider justice to be worth it. They take action, as though it were Icelandic nature's raw materials, the environment for industry, the pollution of industry, and the others who believe that unnoring nature is something of value in itself, value to us humans, even our national preparation and that these valuables should be protected. There, those who consider climate issues to be the most important solution today, since the future of life on earth is at stake, and those who want to be driven. There, those who rejoice in the variety of human life and who want to be connected with different national and cultural trends and those who embrace isolation and fear the future. Granted, it may be difficult to tell the difference. Who's really what and what's a whale, and who's not what? Where the hell is the ball? However, in politics two major powers are involved. The present government is formed directly across these forces, and this makes it possible for these groups to agree on what they are able to achieve. If we are in a handball game, it can be likened to the sudden walking of several vagrants in the second team and in the middle of a game with the other team. A respectable president. The last year was good and practical in many respects, but unfortunately, we feel that the opportunities have not been sufficiently new to the top of the economy. Those with low incomes and middle - income earners were not allowed to enjoy this kind, nor was the vast number of strangers with their hard - working hands, which have made a big difference in economic growth that has been here in most areas. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read some headlines from some of the media from 2018 that I think shed a clear light on the priorities of the government: The midwives are falling apart. Budget schemes lead to poverty and misery. Children wait nine months for a psych service in the South. Desperates against the U.S. and the State. Waxbacks continue to rise. An unacceptable housing situation in Iceland. Iceland has seen an increase in the number of taxes on the income market. Says the government has broken the promise of a college university expansion. Hunting costs are down billions. This is how I, a respectable president, might continue for a long time, but the worst news is not necessarily in headlines. They can't be found at all, for they are hidden by the lack of news, i.e. The failure of the government in countless urgent solutions. It has been the most effective projector to develop action programmes and to form working groups on policy plans because it is a government designed to sustain the dominant state it calls stability itself. This is a government of conservativeness and station, a government that wants to preserve interest and systems that have been developed and long developed by the largest group in this government, the Independence Party. A respectable president. Government policies could be attributed to heavy pressure, to keep everything, and to all forever in the grave so that the business is always in irons, and never to be inhabited. The institutions are always very busy in their business, schools and hospitals. Despair must always be on the brink. Allowing them to earn money is quickly reduced to ensure that the person will never fully attain a decent standing - but on a massive scale. The same is true of old people who are so presumptuous of earning their money in a labor market, whose pension is quickly cut down to make sure that these people remain on the brink of death. While family members are indeed the salt of the earth and the foundation of a successful society, there are times when their whole community is placed on the shoulders of people at the same time that they should be focusing on raising their children. Children must work hard to get in and out of their lives and face massive costs of the minimal privilege of having a roof over their heads, having a home. The loans have to be paid, the food that is excessively expensive here because of the crown and the product protection. The value tax has to be paid on necessities, the leisure work, the visits to doctors, the school items, and all the other items of the blessed children. The loan from cars is paid to get between the children and themselves. It may also be in the most insecure tenet in Europe, and it needs to tear itself and its backs on the road with new challenges. For these people, there is a reason why child care would be impaired if they dared to earn money that could get them out of the grave. If government plans are achieved, they will soon have to pay road taxes to cross town, and these taxes are intended to build up a ruined road system. A respectable president. Controversies have gone on a tight start, strikingly between reports. The government may have a lot to say there, as the examples prove, but it remains to be seen what is to be expected of the current government that began the last year of a struggle with midwives in a dress struggle and ended up with nothing to meet those in the community who have been left behind. The changes in the tax system may have a lot to say, since we live here at relatively low property taxes and capital taxes, while indirect taxes pay down on people with lower incomes, leaving the cost of the crown wide open. A respectable president. I would like to end this talk with the chairman of the BSRB, the Sonja Þorbergsdóttir, who writes in the News newspaper today. She says, with President's permission: We should not hesitate to use the tax system as an equation to increase social stability here. We at BSRB want further step distinctions in the income tax system and possible tax reductions should be implemented in order to benefit them. If so, it is equally important that tax pay be done on the same basis, whether your income is promised pay or income is paid. If hired persons are to survive their pay, they must take immediate action on housing markets and ensure less expensive and more cost-efficient housing across the country, with a high share of the hire of employees at the expense of renting or buying housing. So many were these words, and under those words, we all take heart. The question, though, is whether they feel the same way on the other side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u35	V.E.G. President. At last, I realize how the term "good people " came into existence. There are people who want the equation as large as possible and then there are the rest of us, expected in Independence, exodus and VG, who consider justice to be of no importance. There are people who also want cooperation, who love others, but then there are the rest of us who just want isolation and fear. It's just an amazing simple, amazing political analysis, huh? paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. So are everyone in great numbers, all institutions, individuals, and remunerations, even though no one of their institutions may have had more money to try to do their work than they do right now. Remuneration workers have never been better and never more equal. This speech, my ass. A senator was very peculiar. I insist that those who have doubts about entering a small alliance called the European Union do not object to international cooperation or to people from other countries. The world is much bigger than Europe and a few European countries. I also want to protest references. A senator in headlines in magazines, which, of course, are manuals for practical purposes. They don't describe the real world in Icelandic society. Much is better and much is accomplished, but these are direct and direct corrections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u36	A respectable president. I'm not quite clear how I should react to this answer to Brubber's Brynjar Níelsson's unless I realize that he was not entirely pleased with my speech. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In itself, I can do nothing but regret it. He began his case by saying that I was here representing someone he called the ◯good people, which, in fact, is a term I've never completely understood, i.e. how to use words such as both good and bad in some form of shame. I have always believed that being a good person is a desirable person, but I think I'm going to be a good person. A senator keeps in mind that I just think I'm a good person, but I'm not. There may be food. A senator, but as the above says, I cannot do anything about it. With regard to opinions. I have to say that they were once known to me, and I don't think there's anything I can do to change those opinions. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I must say that I realize that my speech may have been quite dark on chapters, and even not entirely understandable, but I did not speak in that talk about the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u37	V.E.G. President. Of course, being good is very desirable. I have no doubt about it. A senator is good, but the problem in his speech was that he was good, but the rest of us weren't as good. That is why he uses the words "we " that want to equalize him to the highest degree to show that he does not consider justice to be of no importance to him. Being good is very desirable. I have no more than what. A senator understood the word "good " and has never looked at it in a negative sense, far from normal. The odd thing about this is that others are bad or less good. I don't want to argue with you. Senator. We have different ways to a particular extent, and therefore I also make comments that those who do not necessarily want to be in this fine international partnership called the European Union are considered against international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] They are nothing less in isolation or fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u38	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that I brought up here perhaps in part a simplified picture of the main lines I think I see in Icelandic politics and Continents I believe. Of course, my description looked a little of my ideas and ideals and what I consider desirable. This does not mean that I believe that those who disagree with me do not want to pursue national interests, do not want others to be happy, and do not want anyone else to be happy. It is not to be understood that way. Rather, I was trying to paint a picture of a group that embraces social solutions and, on the other hand, those who believe that the best individual effort is to resolve all issues, and that the economic hope of individuals and even the dissociities can bring good to the whole community. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so, but I think I know what. A senator will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u39	Mr. President. I also have to say that it was a dark speech, not just in chapters, but when it was said that almost everything was going on. The government has been living for just over a year. What have we done? One thing like that. A senator mentioned earlier was child welfare. He cannot overlook the fact that 2,200 more members are added to the group that now receives child reform at the end of the year. A single parent of 300,000 a month and two children under seven years of age now receives more than 114,000. More than it ever got. At about 600,000 a month, parents living together with the same age two children raise some 170,000. All of this must matter. The character discount will increase beyond the price. Arrangements are dropped by older citizens and microplies. We made a lot of money in the dentists of an older citizen and disability. So I can't agree with what. A senator in that all these people are in great distress. I have been on a budget committee for some time and even entered it before I became a senator. To be honest, I can't even remember that as few institutions complained that financial contributions to the institutions were not decent and that even the land hospital had to be called in specifically because he didn't want to come and send in a review. This hasn't happened since I sat on a 2013 budget committee. This is a little bit of whatever the government has done, that I don't talk about the environment. A senator, 1.5 billion, 9% increase. There must be something we can rejoice in together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u40	A respectable president. I think it is safe for me to speak on behalf of the Syndicates when I say that I rejoice over all the contributions I make to the sharing that comes. And I am especially pleased with all the contributions to the environment and nature protection, although, of course, I feel that they can be done better. When I was preparing to give this talk, I read an article by Stefán Ólafsson, a professor at the University of Iceland, and I think others were born studying the standard for living in Iceland. This article appeared in the core now on January 8, and Stefán Ólafsson says, with the permission of a president: The low - paying family has increased here more than in any other Western OECD state in the last two decades. It is still so that children in the capital area have fallen out of this growth reform system and are not able to get sufficient interest benefits to escape the trauma.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u41	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Still, I'm going to stay in a similar direction and tell you why. Of course, we need to deal with what we have discussed before, to balance the individual's interests in various ways. I have to mention the group as much as I do. A senator knows that he has been working, and the government is in a government contract for making income tax changes, which is good and will probably be a good entry into his dress interview when that conclusion is at hand. In fact, I forgot to mention earlier when it came to the talk of older citizens in hell that our first job at 2017/018, when this government took over, was to raise the holiday market as the group had requested. That's just one of the things we've done. I want to remind the senator that sometimes it is good to wear your positive glasses on your nose, even if you criticize what is to be criticized. [[The president calls.]] I felt that he was full of speech, as I said earlier, and that he would have chosen to live up to what was good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u42	A respectable president. Of course, you should always be positive, and you should be wrapped in positive energy. It's very good, and it's right next door. Senator. Yet, in recent years 12,000 families have fallen out of the child - welfare system. However, the payoff of a person's hand increased by 500 cents. You can buy yourself a hot dog for 500 bucks, which is naturally nice and probably a positive sign for having a hot dog, but I don't think that's enough. While it is good to see efforts to improve the quality of those with less pay, there is a great lack of effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of history. I'm not going to give the talk a grade, but I thought it was a bit fun, even though I didn't agree with its contents. I felt that the senator puts out a black and white picture of life that shows us that we have a different view of things, depending on the angle we have in view. Clearly, the Senator often has other glasses than me, which are normal because we cannot wear the same glasses. I can only see that Iceland is repeatedly in the top seats worldwide when it is spoken of as being equal in quality of life, social equation, economic equations, and equality in general. We are looked at in that regard. How can I ask the senator that we compete repeatedly for gold, silver, or bronze? The Senator here likened us to a race, made it that way. How may we stay in that place repeatedly? If the senator's vision is this, doesn't he see anything out of it? Could it be the wrong view that we are on the right track? The government that now sits has been here for over a year. It is the government of infrastructure and structure in society, and it is laying the foundation for an even better society than we now live in. Can the senator not see this with the view that there are many good things here, though there may be better things?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u44	A respectable president. In my former life, I was doing novels, and then you had to put on all kinds of glasses and put yourself in a whole world of mind. I must admit, though, that I never wrote stories with the candidates. I'm sure I will, and it's both a curious fantasy and a nice world, I think, in many respects. I have to admit that I cannot quite see the world with the eyes of the forward people at this time, no matter what happens later. I still stick with the January 8 issue of Stefán Ólafsson. Which was in the core I mentioned earlier in these discussions, where he speaks of the greater taxation of low wages in the country than in most parts of Europe, especially in the North countries. He also noted that property taxes, taxes on property, are lower here than anywhere else in the North. It's a system we've built up over the past few decades, especially because as a team has not been given much control here, and we still live in that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u45	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's what I can say. A senator has many good things to do first because we speak for equal and equality in the community, we speak for infrastructure and constant opportunities across the country. That's what we're working on here. There was a demand for internalisation for these elections, for this terms, and that is clearly being won. Health, education, and transportation have been greatly increased, and we are well on our way. There are many things that need to be done better, but we certainly are on the right track. That's my solid faith. I hope we can get through it because like a dog. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir listed only a few institutions over a period of time to the budget with a call for something to be missing. We have more diagnostics. We can better hold on to those less fortunate, and we are in the best position to do so. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can agree there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I know that in the advance group, we have a very strong, solid, socialistic, and stable nervous system that may not have been new in recent years, we can say. I can say, though, that I look forward to working with the advance group in a socialistic administration that I am quite convinced will eventually come here. As for the infrastructure, I feel a little anxious about the plans that are under control. Minister of the parish, chairman of the forward party, on road taxes, i.e. building wood, decades of underscoring sins in the country's road system, taxing public daily life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u47	President. The fact that this is really a meaningless government, a government that is centered only on holding sea and holding chairs, is becoming increasingly apparent. In fact, when the government was formed and introduced that these different categories would likely, rather than introduce some vision, focus primarily on the progress of the political community. That, then, is the stability proclaimed by the government. As a result of this stability, opportunities are not new and dangers are not met. The government has apparently done extremely little to deal with the job market or to prepare to solve the situation there. V.E.G. In fact, the prime minister mentioned that the government has installed a Web site that could be viewed as a dresser. It is true that, President, this page is very interesting and well thought up, an excellent tip at the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, in fact, came with the story when it opened up that she had nothing to do with conversation. True, there was something else that could be understood at the highest. Prime Minister earlier. While the government sets up a web page that is either included in that discussion or not, it shows in no way the willingness to solve the big issues that large parts of the labor movement stress and have been waiting for a long time and are important and big interests for the public, things such as reorganization of the financial system. There was a book called a white book about concerned experts in a town on the financial system - but no vision of the government, no policy, no debate in this largest interest case even as growth, insurance and how the financial system in Iceland operates. In fact, the entire industry is inexpensive, including a basic national work programme, agriculture and food production in Iceland. Farmers are the only class where government policy is declared that their election will be impaired each year. This is stated in the government budget where contributions to that article, that class, will continue to decline as they anticipate progressive donations for all other classes and professions. There were no resources at the end of the budget on how to deal with a crisis in this article, not even a preliminary advance, as was the last move. At the same time, the job situation of this article is becoming more difficult with the huge import of non-unheated meat including. In fact, architecture is inexpensive. Instead of attacking the needed improvements and using the huge means of parishion that would exist if people had a vision of the future in that category, there is no news of settlements. The largest export work in the country, tourism, is also in uncertainty, sustained uncertainty, so that human activity is not carried out because governments provide no perspective on what is to be expected, and as a result the community and the branch itself have not made the money of the article that could be created. Pension workers still wait for justice while the government maintains devastating impairments instead of promoting positive motivations, motivation to produce more valuable things - that is, in order to increase the tax to the state's funds and incentives to allow people to work longer without punishing them for using their experience and knowledge. Speaking of a pensioner, role, position and future of the pension fund, does anyone know anything about the government's policy in that? She has at least not present it in a way that might be considered noteworthy. Health, the largest paid team, and many would say that the most important role in government is to ensure the best health. Not only is there uncertain, but the minister's determined desire to introduce Marxist health systems in Iceland is now becoming a double health system in Iceland. At the same time, we continue with a planned implementation of the New Land Hospital on the Ring Road, although the regular weekly and almost day - by - day activities will become more clear to us that all the warnings we have made about them have proved to be legitimate. The last time we saw that much of the doctors believe that a new hospital should be built in a new location. Normal, all intelligent people realize that. But the project continues with the noise, earthquakes, and heavy equipment, and much of its transportation and discomfort to employees and patients. Humans are simply not prepared to reexamine anything and not have the courage to change their mind and do what is reasonable. The schedule was rejected, a respectable president, and much of it was welcome. I don't think that it's ever happened before that the Minister's transport plan and thus the government is disposed of. This was done by a transportation committee. Among other things, especially those in the management board - they must acknowledge what is done well - being done - they must be helped to attack a new transport program or, more correctly, the writing of a new transport program. However, what comes out of it remains to be revealed. There, we must plan to stress the reduction of accidents, increase production, and make greater use of transport funding than without increasing the overall budget for the public. Yet, enough is now, and there was only a small or limited improvement in transport. Then there are still unfinished large issues, which had been handled well, while there was some vision and someone getting involved in politics, such as release. Fortunately, they are far from here, but there has been very little in the month since they finish, and now it is year after year but after year, more and more from the plan that had proved to be so good. The latest chapter appears now and is expected to enter the council soon, i.e. Plans to lift off the hedge fund, which is placed here with an amnesty and who had refused to participate in total government operations, confident that they could bend governments. Now the evidence indicates that it will be the right thing to do. Many other factors might be attributed here, which does not allow time for a ten - minute talk. However, in particular, I'm concerned that the government in its efforts to stay alive and do nothing that could support the rest of the administrations is at the same time neglecting what could, however, be considered the main costs of the policy of these groups. The Independence Party was once led by a chairman who supported the motto: Do what was right, do not tolerate injustice. How are subjects of the individual's right and freedom? Who is speaking of such fundamental factors in the present government? I have at least a few minutes. but at the same time, some members of the management team had come up to revise, even rewrite, or at least overlook, the principles of the state of justice. A respectable president. As we can see from this brief list, which could be much longer, many major projects are available. In addition, there are many opportunities, but if we are going to make the full use of them at the General Assembly, we need to start discussing politics at the Council rather than making our work revolve around something completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u48	Mr. President. There were many talks. Senator. I'm just gonna stick around for a second. A senator said about the health system and its structure. The Senator spoke of a target setting up what he called a Marxic Health Center in Iceland. To me, it's nothing but vocabulary, and here it's a name that sounds dramatic enough to the ears of the audience without any meaning behind it. Those who hear are left to see in their mind the greatest horror films they might think of in this context. Hv. A senator owes a body of Congress to explain in detail the details of these events in our medical system today. Is it a Marxic health system to cancel any return fees for older people and disability? Is it a Marxic health system to increase the government's expense during dental work and incubating the elderly? And so you could count. Hv. A senator cannot bring up here with dictionaries on certain matters simply to hide the discussion without anything else being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u49	A respectable president. I had not realized that the word Marxism had become a disgrace in my left movement of ◯ green foreboding. For a long time, it has been there active members who have been proud of being Marxists, but now they are hurting at least. One hit. A senator says his party is taught by that policy. But I'll explain what I'm supposed to do, of course, is not the time to trace it in any detail. We have recently seen many examples of the extreme. A health minister is engaged in any business that does not depend on the hospital. This fusion policy, to move as much as possible into the Land Hospital, and thus directly under the state, I would have thought that it would be a declared target of a party. Senator. It would simply be possible, if I had it with me, to read up the left movement's direction of the offer. Perhaps it is. A senator would do this for me, and then we will see whether this includes correction or confirmation that the left - party conference of the convention was doing a very thorough and well aware of the direction of the class in these substances. This trend has taken on a number of job manifestations. Healthcare Minister (HCP) in the past, including in opposition to all the doctors, apparently, who are active outside the Land Hospital, which extends far beyond the secretary's opinion of sending people to a foreign country in private rooms and paying for the job three times the cost of carrying out the operations in Iceland because it is somehow so ugly to work in a private office that they will be at least To be outside the rocks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u50	A respectable president. I want to start by saying that I never had the word here in a speech chair that the Marxian policy would necessarily be bad or good or better than anything. What I said, however, is that the senator chooses a phrase. He chooses a phrase without any explanation. Then comes the second. A senator here accuses the highest. Healthcare Ministers to be against all medical personnel working outside the hospital. [[Up front.]] It's amazing to say this at the same time. A senator well knows that recently the funds approved were fully approved to pay for the services of these same physicians. [[Up front.]] The Senator continues to say that there is a health - care war. That's not true. But it's perfectly normal, and I hope that what. A senator would agree with me, that the Ministry of Health tries to make some kind of cost-and-need analysis of what service to buy and to whom to search for it. And if caring for the medical services of the state's institutions is more practical, is that not the most appropriate thing to do with those who are already employed by the state? Is it more wise to look outside institutions when the government is actually with them in its service and full of employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u51	President. Is it more reasonable to look outside the institutions when the State is with them and all these employees anyway? That's the question of why. Senator. At the same time, the National Hospital declares an emergency because it cannot handle the situation. And what will happen to those who do not receive help there? They can go abroad and to the highest. A minister is more willing to pay three times for it than to negotiate with specialist physicians in Iceland or pay for a job that is comparable to the kind of work being paid abroad. There are now 400 people, or about there, who would have the right to go abroad tomorrow and let the state pay for a service there; it would cost about 2 billion, well over another billion, but could be given the same service here in Iceland for 480 million. At the same time, I'll let you down. A senator sees to it that there is an analysis and that it is the most practical thing, etc. but will continue to send people abroad in expensive operations in private rooms there while such activity is being sewn up in the country. This, a respectable president, I call Marxic Health System.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I decided that he would be informed about a transportation program. He declared, for my delight, that he was not meeting an added curse to finance what we believe is necessary road projects. Then I'll ask why. A senator: How will he do this? If curses are not to increase, how will the effort we face be financed? In what ways does the senator feel that it is reasonable and normal to do so? See what? A senator envisions any new income that is not considered to be an extra source of stress? Or how does the senator want to do this? I cut down another thing. A senator has to explain something to me. He believes that it is not enough to deal with the elderly, i.e. When it comes to the pension payments of the elderly. We can agree on that. But that does not change the fact that we are still talking about an actual increase in the material of the elderly is about 150% from 2010, that is 50 billion or so. I thought the senator indicated that he views our insurance system, our social security system, as a legal system, not as an insurance system. Wait a minute. A senator explaining only to me whether it could be that he would view social security as a legitimate system, not an insurance system that we've established to seize those who need help. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u53	A respectable president. The effectiveness of transport depends on man's taking into account the long-term effects of the decisions taken and the overall effects that have not been done enough. For example, I would mention that humans value the cost of accidents that can be avoided by attacking specific transport benefits and, in effect, reducing the cost of construction. It can be considered, as some have been considering on the committee, different means of currency. But what I've always stressed in this regard is that it won't be to raise the total budget on the public, for as it happens, paying road users enormously in the state's budget for getting on their way. This has been supported by the need, of course, to sustain the transport system. But it hasn't paid off for years, and it's certainly not new, I'll admit it. For many years this has not paid off as a means of transportation. There, therefore, there are reductions, not lasting increases, such as new tax resolutions, such as this so - called carbon tax, carbon tax, or what it is now called, that the government has invented to further legalize people who need to make their way. With regard to the second question, older citizens, and the rights system, I call this system of rights, although it is true that it is true to be true. A senator comes in, that it was used largely as an insurance system, simply because the budget was not allowing otherwise. I believe, however, that those who pay a pension fund feel that they are the owners of the money they pay in the pension fund and, as I mentioned earlier, even though the cost of what they might have liked about this rights system - I have to get this done next, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I didn't quite understand his answer when it came to financing the road. That's what I'm talking about. A senator speaking of raising fees, paying a faraway fee - if the damage caused by the condition can be prevented, does he think that there is no further spells? I understood why. A senator is thus involved in laying extra spells on the road. He says: Well, that's justified because of certain harms caused by accidents, etc. And to the other thing: if. A senator thus considers social security, insurance, a system of rights, to be the only way to say that it is normal and reasonable for everyone to be paid out of social security. In this way, the best - standing and the best pension rights - some with a million or even more - should receive their $300,000. or any amount of money we decide to be minimum money from the social security system. In case of a moment. A senator is announcing that we may find ourselves in a bad situation in the future. There is a fundamental reason, when it comes to social security, that we make sure that there is a safety network that grabs those who need help, that we direct our limited resources in that direction, but do not plan young people to pay the best of what they can get out of that system, the one that some might say, well. A senator, supposed to be on penance rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u55	A respectable president. I don't know. A senator's emphasis on the overall picture and the long - term effects. If we believe that an accident has a significant cost to society, we must assume that if people make a move, the cost, the future costs, as a result, will be reduced to the extent possible to assess the number of projects that are most urgent and are falling, not just increasing expenses, but increasing the cost in the future. The same could be said of the pension talk. There we need to take a closer look at the overall picture and the long - term effects. In particular, I am referring to a loss of employment because of employment that results in otherwise won work, production that would otherwise be produced, tax returns, is not won, and does not yield because the motive that the state sends out, as unfair as it is, is that you have nothing to do with working at a certain age. Then he will just be completely affected or as a result, he will just have to complete his work and stop producing the valuables he has acquired experience and knowledge to produce, even for decades. It is very strange to hear the approach of many independents to the pension system. That is why I called for more discussions about it earlier. It is only that when you pay a pension fund, it's as if you're paying taxes to each other, as if taxes that run into the welfare system in other ways, in social security. I don't think that much of the people who see high payment on their pension note realize that this is the attitude of independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u56	V.E.G. President. The government that is now being developed for the purpose of a stronger community on the basis of broad solidarity and stability. The government is formed on an exceptionally broad political foundation. It involves challenges, but it can also, when successful, bring out good for us politicians, i.e. that we listen to one another and take into consideration different viewpoints. It is certainly called for these practices in society. The work of government has been marked by trust, respect, and cooperation, which has produced a common view of many of our most important subjects. On this strong foundation, the government has supplied many progressive issues and will continue to fulfill its ambitious government contract. The direct debt of state funds is not tangible for the general Icelanders, but it is nothing more than taxes for the future. The debt of state funds from mid - 2017 to the middle of 2018 dropped by 90 billion, i.e. 10 million an hour. Since the beginning of 2013, the debt of the state's funds has been paid down to some 660 billion. They are expected to go this year for the first time under official financial standards and to result in interest rates of some 34 billion lower than they were in 2012. That's about what I'm talking about. 20% of all paid income tax in 2018. In two of the government's budgets, contributions to infrastructure and social projects have been increased by about 80 billion. This is possible now after the foundation of the preceding years. These are enormous sums of money and they go on projects that the public will experience in a tangible way. Action in the road, significant increases in children's improvement, especially in the income, increases in interest of interest over price, increase in law enforcement, supply of the health system, protection of the Icelandic language, construction of tourist facilities, increased research support, and development, and so on. At the same time, insurance fees have been dropped and personal discounts increased by a higher rate of inflation. In this way, there are differences in the importance of spending more and less taxes. It tells itself that we cannot post a new project as well as lower taxes unless there are two, first of all, that our personal enterprise has a practical means to create more valuable things, thus increasing the change in cookie, and second, that we are ready to reduce expenses in some area rather than only for continuing increases in all areas. As a small example, and perhaps figuratively, we reach the conclusion of my Ministry during the past year to campaign for employment that was established in 1996 as an effort to overcome unemployment at that time, should simply not be any longer appropriate, including: in view of increased roles and activities of technology development funds in support of pioneers. Thus, the work of the Kingdom must always be revised, and in these areas it can be done better. In terms of increasing value production, the key is that the quality of employment can be achieved in future labour agreements. We know too well from experience that economic increases do not immediately disappear into inflation. In recent years, huge growth in tourism has played a key role in the restoration of inflation by supporting the crew of the crown. Now the growth in tourism has greatly decreased. This means that the protective wall against inflation is no longer present on the same scale. Thus, the situation is more sensitive and important to all, defending the results that have been achieved. Governments have contributed to creating companies and consumers an economic setting on the basis of business freedoms, along with the support and attractions that apply. Insurance is down, and personality discount is rising beyond the price level, as I've already mentioned. Another important factor in my opinion that is too rarely mentioned in this regard is the discontinuation of most tax dollars and customs. Iceland is now one of only six members of the International Business Agency, which has almost completely detracted from industrial customs, for example. Free international transactions are elevated by the nations of the world and are designed to increase their value in just the same way as that of individual workers. Each person has the advantage of his or her talents and then does business with others. The EEA deal was 25 years old at the year. A quarter of a year is a quiet period. There is no doubt that the contract has played a major role in Iceland's improved standard of living, and not only with standard of living but also with quality of life, including with our freedom to travel, farm and employment in the area. This makes it easier for young people to pursue education in Europe and even to pursue a career field, where they live for a longer or shorter period of time. Such opportunities are a serious quality of life. The access of Icelandic enterprises to these markets is also crucial. Other nations obtained similar rights on the land at the same time. Of course, that was disputed at the time. Some felt that foreign people would be too much influence here and take from us both property and employment, that foreign surveillance agencies and foreign courts would be overpowered, that the sovereignty was thrown and the Constitution was broken. There was a high demand for national law on such a fundamental change in the state of the land. The demands were rejected by the then established governments, who said they were strange. But that's exactly true for those who pointed to the time when the deal would have a tremendous impact here. Contestability regulations, government regulations, the four freedoms and the authority of the ESA and the EFTA Court, all of this has set up a wide range of restrictions on Icelandic governments and companies. Compatibility is forbidden in the force of competitiveness. ESAs review the market-based energy deal and the European rules of choice. 44,000 foreign citizens live on this land, the vast majority of them in the power of the EEA Convention. It is highly commendable in Icelandic society that news of the present is relatively few. And it is a compliment to the EEA that during the 25th century, the Icelandic government has never changed its policy of supporting and protecting it, no matter what categories have been under control. The government that now sits there is no exception and has resolved to promote our interest in the EEA and defend this important agreement. It will be one of the main projects of this government. One of the main projects is to make sure that our actions are not just for the sake of short - term benefits but for the benefit of future generations. The decrease in debt is an example of such emphasis. Another example of long - term thinking is the founding of the National Fund at the General Assembly. The plan is to make a trust in the financial strength of the state's funds to meet major unsurpassed events. V.E.G. President. We are living in the coming years and decades in the face of vast changes in industry because of the variety of technological changes called the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Some proponent thinkers go so far as to predict that for this reason, the prospect of a great unemployment and a greater class distinction is in store for human society. No community can resist these changes by building walls around them or by ignoring changes and by not being ready to work accordingly. The choice is to become prepared or ready for the wave, to lift up on it, and to continue to carry the community for greater prosperity. This is done only by promoting education, innovation, protection of mental rights and investments. Thus we will be on the lead of the changes, able to anticipate and prepare for them. New creation is not pleasant and interesting; it is vital for all communities in all areas. Convention of innovation policy is ongoing and will play a key role in handling the road in these areas. The big increase in support of research and professional development projects is also a major milestone. As hard as today's many challenges and challenges, I believe that in time this government will be, especially, judged by its success in preparing us for a changed future. I have strong conviction that we are on the right track and that we are at least My purpose in this government, despite the fact that there is no purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u57	Mr. President. As always, at the beginning of a new year, it is wise to take the position and as high as possible. Indeed, a minister went over many good things that have happened. But there have been worse things. Consider, for example, the position of low - income groups. As you can see in the new database at the highest level. The recently opened financial minister is groups that still have as little pay as they were 15 years ago. We need to nurture them in the pursuit of income. I'd love to hear from the highest. A minister will see whether and how she will see to it that she will correct the ineffable one. The fact is, Icelandic high - income groups pay much less taxes from their highest income than from other countries of the North. On the other hand, the average tax burden is low - incomeing people at the highest level. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the importance of maintaining stability, maintaining the system. Sadly, though, it does not look like much stability ahead, such as the highest. A minister actually mentioned himself, neither economic nor social. No matter how much the government tries to run away from political interests, stability cannot be guaranteed by denying the position. So I must wonder if we will see in the financial agenda changes in the direction of increasing equations. But there were some of the most interesting things. A minister entered his speech, including the need to welcome a favorable minister to the EEA and the European Union. I agree with her that there's a lot of positive things there that we must celebrate. But it would be interesting to hear from the discussion that has already taken place in the Senate Hall how she can foresee the rest, whether there is still an opportunity, and especially in energy matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what. A senator's examination of this new site reveals something remarkable. It is true that there is a group that seems to find it harder to move between the earnings. But what's interesting, too, is that the largest part of the group that over the years has been in these lowest income tenets is moving up. Social events in Iceland are very high. To me, it means Iceland is all equal land of opportunity. The vast majority of those who are born in this country or moving to the country have a very good opportunity. But that is not true of everyone. Hence, it is important to have a strong safety net for them. And what you see in this is that it is also important to focus even more on the group that does not move from these lowest incomes, i.e. special attention can be given to such groups. The discussion includes all kinds of groups with a wide range of viewpoints about their status. But there you can see it very black in white. And I welcome this work very much. In terms of the equation and the income of groups, I must think of it as being very high in Iceland on a global scale, and I would also like to call attention to the work being done by the government on the basis of tax-system changes where considerable funds are expected, about 14 billion if I recall correctly, to improve the situation in particular by improving the status of income-based groups. With the EEA, it's not a coincidence that I put it to the fore in my speech. I realize that we will have to discuss that matter very much for the next year, and I am totally clear in that discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u59	Mr. President. First, I would like to ask for favors because I used to present a small piece of paper on a talk chair earlier. Of course, it was the highest. Prime Minister who opened the database but not the highest. Secretary of finance. You should be right about this. They can be commended by a database, for this is certainly an important benefit in the discussion of income and status of different groups in the country. We are to make good use of that database in improving their situation and helping those who have taken their place, as the database truly shows. In my second answer, there were two things I just wanted to come in on. It is, on the one hand, with the status of innovation that is, I think, enormously important, not only in the light of commercial innovation, but also of social innovations and other such and especially in the light of the real danger we now face in climate change. I think we ourselves, the generation that is now, need to change. We cannot wait for our children. Part of it is just increasing the equality in society, as well as reducing and changing society's consumption and consumption. I'd be interested to have a little conversation at the top. A minister to see if she can see that we could do even more in climate matters. Is the Independence Party, e.g. Are you willing to examine increased incentives and thus try to influence the consumption patterns of Icelanders? Also, I would like to be curious about the situation of innovation in view of the crown's position, which has been bitterly complained about. Why not examine another currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u60	Mr. President. I thank you for these lazy questions, for one minute and 55 seconds. First only about the currency. That's exactly right, I hear a lot of things when I meet people in all kinds of innovation companies that many of them like to have another currency. However, it is not the abbreviation of the currency that causes fluctuations in its value. There are economic and political fluctuations, uncertainty and political uncertainty. If people want a constant currency, they - and those they choose - must maintain stability. It's, for example. conducted with an open international business and increased progress. A round of government and predictable rules is what we need and can establish. As for the new creation in general, work is going on, and I have high hopes for it. And that may also include some innovations in that work. With regard to climate, innovation, and whatever. A senator mentioned - because of trouble. A senator is a special enthusiast of energy, and he mentioned it in his earlier talk - I also see that climate, energy, and innovation are triangles that cannot be torn apart. We are naturally in a key position in this regard. Certain cooperation in energy matters also opens up opportunities. About whether we as politicians can do more in climate matters, I think that's all we can do. Of course, we are doing a lot of work, and there are various projects in the government plan. I need to mention at the end that when I read the other day, people believe that the government is failing on this job. I'm not trying to belittle it, but I would still like to say against each person who lives in the country, and therefore, I'm saying: Are we individually doing all we can to meet these challenges? If each of us does so, we too will be very effective. [[The president calls.]] It is not that governments should solve everything, and this does not mean that policies and strategies can be made if the people of the country do not follow up on it. That is why I have also taken great delight in taking the initiative in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of great speech. There are two things I would like to come in on the previous counterweight and face both high-level policy. Minister. On the one hand, she mentioned in her speech that there would be no compromise on the EEA Convention. Of course, it quickly brings to mind the challenge we are facing today regarding the induction of the third energy package. Obviously, the EEA agreements must be headed in considerable uncertainty if we were to struggle with the induction, although we have previously agreed to a commitment that EU energy packages are part of the common European Economic Protocol and, in fact, have already agreed to introduce the third. In view of the fact that the government has not yet had the courage to supply the third energy package for its release and, in view of the apparent variability of views, in any of the governments, could say, but not least within the state of the highest order. Minister, I'd like to ask you, sir, is the Secret Minister of the Third Energy Package introduced? Can a minister pledge that a third energy package will be established at the council? Second, it's a tax matter. There was considerable turmoil within the world's highest level. Ministers when a discussion of carbon charges began a few years ago. The government is now the Supreme Government. Ministers have introduced most of the raising plans, but they improve, and further planning taxing the traffic further through the pressures of road costs that the amount 51⁄210 billion a year, to say, but ideas are still very vague. Once again, there seem to be quite different opinions, even at the highest level. Minister. Is support within the government and support is within the highest rank. Minister for road tax and tax collection schemes? [[The president calls.]] Do these taxes produce good things other than taxes, such as carbon pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u62	Mr. President. With regard to the EEA Convention and the third energy package, it has been a considerable period of time under the Constitution to plan to submit the case in February. This, of course, has not yet been brought into the council. To some extent, it is premature to take some discussion about the treatment of the third energy package here, although it is not unusual to ask questions about issues that are known about warnings and uncertainty. So what I'm saying about him is that the whole thing, of course, is just an opinion. We said it, and I made it clear that we were looking at certain factors, that we were further confounding reasoning support and answers and information about the criticisms that have been presented. Asking if I can promise that the case will go through. I can't promise anything in politics, since each and every one follows his own convictions. My conviction is that since the case is harmless, and that's normal, logical continuation of the first and second energy package, I don't see that there should be any basis for making some expedition that we've never had when it comes to the EEA deal. This is one of the issues that will be brought into the council and will be discussed considerably. In terms of the charges, we want to invest more in the road system, that's the main thing. That should enable us to make good peace. There are many ways, and I have long held the view not to rule out charges. What matters to me is the total penalty for people in this country and those who visit them. The changes in transport system are inevitable. Actually, I would have liked it if we had started discussing it a long time ago. We cannot drive the program very long enough for those around us to drive cars that we would like to see people drive nothing. [[The president calls.]] If we reach our goals, the proportion of automobiles and while working under the financing lines we have today is increasing. We need to think about it again, and it is our job to make peace with them so that we are not increasing the total law on people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u63	Mr. President. To begin with, my first question: The new third energy package and its induction as a sponsor to the highest degree. Minister? I felt that there was no clear answer to that question. The new induction of the third energy package supports the government? Surely it must be a very serious matter, and anything that any government would hardly take lightly, to upset the manner in which the induction would not be accomplished. I thought I'd ask the highest. Minister only to our currency in the light of the vague position of sceptre companies and tourism. But since I did not actually get a clear answer to the tax issues, I must ask again. This is an added curse. In addition to the pre-circuit rate, you are talking about charges. This is not a change in driving currency. These are additional laws and must be considered tax increases. [[The president calls.]] In view of the fact that we know that we are awaiting a reimbursement of a traffic system, but we are not yet coming to it, I ask: Do these tax increases support for the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u64	Mr. President. The third pack of energy hasn't passed through the government, and it hasn't passed through my council or the rest of the board. As a result, I cannot tell who will agree that he will pass through it and who will not. This matter has required further discussion. The third pack of energy is nine or ten years old and has not really been discussed for all those years. Now, though, the discussion is to take place. He has needed further discussion, and further information on this has been needed. It really bothers me very little. I've told you before, we're not in a hurry. The matter is not even included in the council. It's not even been signed by Congress. The need for politicians to answer critical questions about some induction is not unnatural. That's what I have to say about the third energy package. For this expenditure, the extraction is not completed. That's why it wasn't finished for Christmas. The extraction is not finished. Various exports are possible. [[The president calls.]] I don't object to the fact that those who use it. I don't object that this is part of a reevaluation of the funding environment for building roads and saying, "If we want a lot more money in the road system, we need to find them somewhere too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u65	Mr. President. It may just start with correcting the situation as high as possible. The minister said in these words correctly, that the rate of Christmas was not yet finished because it was not finished. More accurately, the lesser part did not accept it, and that was a deal. However, there is much to say about a talk that is the highest. Minister. Some were good and worse. I'm here to form a clear agreement on what she said about the quality of the EEA deal and its importance. I find it a little strange, though, that when we are in the least proportionately debted to the world, we are talking about a decrease in interest of government debt when we are among the states that have the largest interest in the debt. But rather than pacing on that particular point, I want to talk to the highest. Industrial Minister on the country's professional situation. As we know, it is very difficult to start and run a business in Iceland. The current environment is very difficult. Many have complained about it and will likely continue until it is fixed. The question is, Does a minister in his hand see any means to improve the management of the companies in the country? Then I think mainly of the enterprises involved in innovation, research and development. The aim may be to reduce the number of costs, e.g. by reducing the provision of enterprises to the actual cost of registration, as expected, and increasing access to loans of low interest and so on. It is natural that this fall was done, double the payment roof for research and development, but it was just one obstacle to so many of the amazing many when the environment in this country is considered, in view of the company's management environment in our main competitive countries. I would love to see some good solution in those matters in the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that, in various ways, we are not as good as many other countries we would like to compare ourselves with and would like to be equal when it comes to the environment, perhaps especially to smaller companies or innovations. The senator provides an example of something that could be fixed. I've heard him mention an example that I can't remember specifically in my ministry. Perhaps, so let me now think aloud in a talk chair, it would be good for me to apply such ideas that are not necessarily so large, complicated, or costly but still matter in the overall context. I generally accept good ideas, wherever they come from, especially when they benefit people in this country who have good ideas and make value. Then, of course, we're working on a new creation policy. It aims to take up all the environment and to become specific suggestions there. It aims to focus specifically on the items needed to get us to the next platform as a new creation country. I suppose that's what it is. A senator is on the board for that work. [[Up front.]] - No? As I say, there's a lot of things that can be done better. There are many things we do well, and it is absolutely true that we have been making decisions that are important to the innovation environment. But not everything will be done at once. Perhaps it can be sorted, e.g. twice the roof of reimbursement is a very large and heavy operation for financial funds and is important. [[The president calls.]] Then there are other benefits, especially for smaller companies where the double reimbursement is definitely not a key issue. But I accept all such indications.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u67	Mr. President. It was an excellent answer that made me feel a little strange. We're one of the few countries, at least, I know of, who's never had industrial policy. It's natural but industrial policy, we've had a lot of these things through the years, but industrialism is about how the state's going to feed the country's industry and produce and maximising the success and value of exports. We've never had such a policy. In 1980 or something like that, also in 1981 and then at some time, two thousand and something. Although often working toward that goal, I would like to ask if the highest. A minister would be willing to announce here and now become an additional effort to shape industrial policy in Iceland, a policy that takes into account the demands of environmental and climate services, and the establishment of both export and sustainable tradition in Icelandic industry. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I ask Telvur. Ministers that taking up international roads would have a positive influence on the ability of an enterprise in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u68	Mr. President. I'm sure it's what company you're asking about. Of course, competitiveness is a matter of utmost importance. Paying may affect her, and this should be taken into account. If you ask a company that works, e.g. in the southern part of the West, not that it matters everything, but perhaps rather that it does not seem to be possible to determine which road is most suitable, I think that there many companies would very much like to pay a small fee in order to have a better road system, in order to move the valuables from a country that is prepared there, to get them to the airport and send them out of the country. So there are definitely other companies who would say that the tax would not help them. Now we're winning a innovation policy that's going to go into the field of industrial activity in some way. We have an energy policy that is totally connected with various industrial types. Then we have to revise the hospice, which so far has been a little mixed up with the energy - consuming industry. It is also of greater importance to consider aspects of the environment, to be more demanding in delicate activities. [[The president calls.]] It can therefore be taken into account by the social legislation. We have a controversy of investments in innovation or other matters. It's all hanging out together. I'm not gonna promise you that I'm gonna stress industrial policy, but it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u69	President. The political situation is pretty obvious, I think. It's approximately status quot, so I'm going to focus more on the work ahead. Human communities differ as many of them. All of us agree on the importance of securing the basic needs of human beings, but the importance of providing true freedom for each individual in life is also emphasized by the diversity of mankind. Yet, there is considerable distances between quality, poverty, and the amount of freedom it brings. How has it failed so miserably to bring the hopes and dreams of individuals into the community as a whole? I believe that part of the explanation is found in community calculus and goals that tend to focus on material things. One of the main objectives of our community might be to make it possible for each person to be happy and to let his light shine. The community's collective well - being could be arranged to achieve that goal. The Society is supposed to contribute to our basic needs, but is it possible to support ourselves enough? Or do we want individuals to have the freedom to thrive, to experiment, and to make mistakes, to gain knowledge, and to grow? The road to increased knowledge is accompanied by repeated failures and constant adjustments. Freedom to make mistakes without ending up in prison is very important. Sad to say, our community is so limited that few people have real opportunities to follow that path, and despite the fast pace of technological advances, are able to give people the leeway needed to find their own unique way to life's happiness rather than always fear the next loan from the loan. To ensure the freedom of people, we who take the lead in politics must provide the way of society's success in the course of climate change, climate change, the aging of a nation, and the inequities that have increased in the force of ideologies that have long since ceased to serve us. President. We must make sure that young people see future opportunities, which are not the case today. Young people are pioneers. Young people make new opportunities. Young people make valuable for society. These are the people who make new income so that they can better consider those who either need our help in the community or who have already contributed to a productive and prosperous life - style. The project is that young people will see future opportunities, the goal is that future generations will have a future. We all care about our children, and we have the highest. The social and child - care minister showed this in action with the good work he has set in motion to revise child protection. Then I find it especially important that we look at the whole group and think that the best way to ensure the well - being of our children is to ensure the well - being of the parents and at the same time the family. A happy and happy home is the best and most important measure of prevention. We do this by taking care of women as they walk with their children, knowing that stress, anxiety, and sadness affect a mother's development. The child's maturity is in the hands of a mother's emotional well - being. Let us extend the birthworm because all the evidence shows the importance of the child's development in spending time with their parents for the first few years. Parents provide security for their child. Children's excessive stress can increase the likelihood of health problems, contribute to poor learning, and adversely affect their child's development. Let us move from student loans toward scholarships to reduce the burden of young people's debt, allow them time to consider family life, and freedom to take their first steps in the labour market rather than to follow the highest pay. Shortened work weeks because colding is increasing at an alarming rate. People have far too little time for what really matters, family relationships, friendships, and interests. The shortening of the work week has a positive effect on people's happiness, health, and production. To shorten the parent's week of work means to shorten the children's week of work, allowing them to spend valuable time with their parents, who can prevent the distress of their children later on. Secure safe housing and economic and social rights of our countrymen. Poverty includes a loss of freedom for those living on it and has an enormous social cost that will only increase if poverty continues to grow. We need to reevaluate our social security system with the objective of removing all the poverty traps in it. Let's start with the most obvious, like a crown against a dollar. All of this, however, is overshadowed by the fact that if we continue as we do today, there will be no community for future generations to accept. Those who think only about freedom in terms of taxes and the results of an excel column are reducing future opportunities. Freedom to equal opportunities for the next generation is incomparable with the collection of riches of the top layer. If we do not make radical changes, what will be the blessing of the stability that our present government has held in high esteem? It will not be enough to assume responsibility for the environment and climate on consumers, contaminated industry, businesses and manufacturers, and is a great responsibility. It is also found in those sitting on endless targets for growing profits at the expense of everything else. What is the social responsibility when the sole goal is to increase? She's none. President. Pirats and I made the bill for a new constitution today. The bill is based on legal proposals, along with the work that followed the Council. The bill includes a logical continuation of the introduction of the new constitution after its completion of 2013. This is a continuation of the work committed by the General Assembly in the wake of more part of the country determined by the National Order that a new constitution should be put here on the basis of a bill of administration. This is the constitution chosen by the nation. Senators have to realize that it's not their job to write a Constitution for Iceland. Their sole role is to ensure that the Constitution of the people, the principles of the whole community, is properly treated at the General and that the people are elected to adopt their own constitutions. That's it. The Constitution is prepared by the people to ensure that the legislature, the judicious authority, and the European Commission do not exceed the normal limits and that government control is respected. Therefore, all of us members of Congress are wise to show humility, to recognize our role, and to ensure that the bill that a constitution approved in the 2012 National Remuneration is adopted. That is the only logical and moral conclusion. President. If not decades, we are faced with one of the greatest fight in the last few years. Little fog in professional and employee business affairs and is called upon to know how the government is coming out loud. The responsibility of the government and the General for solutions in that controversy is high, for it is clear that they will not be solved without the administration of the government. If governments do not bring in the improvements that the public and employee call for, then strikes are likely to put the community on their side. But that does not have to be the case. We elected representatives can set a good example and take the initiative to meet the reasonable and normal demands of employees and the public. If we cannot afford it, we really need to reunvere the economy in order to promote prosperity for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for a fine talk and, in many respects, a meaningful one. I wanted to talk to her about the constitution that the senator only introduced and the importance of its operation. I agree with what. A senator that we need to deal with this problem, if we can call it so, that we have not followed the course that changes in the Constitution will inevitably call on us, we are not yet there, however, working. I wanted to think about one thing with the senator and ask: Is it really true that there's no way of doing anything that would upset me, e.g. The product that came to the conclusion of a governmental body in its time? I ask, not for good reason, but because the senator is likely to realize that this matter will not be completed without the approval of the council because the constitution we already have is in place. Is it really true that there is no way for the senator to develop or to make any variations, the probable by agreement between the members of the council or members of the council at all, in order to achieve the goal that was expressed in the vote for the decision of a government body, that the people in general agree with the conclusion? In general, it may not be enough when two courses or three have been chosen for Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u71	President. I appreciate the answer. I think, and many, that it has to be a complete motion, that this must be based on, and I partly agree to it as the highest. In his discourse, the proposals of a board of directors, and what was agreed on in the 2012 National Remuneration, the prime minister said. That was a relief. We can see that. If this arrangement is to be changed in any way, it must be settled too. That's what matters, but maybe more to the public than to the members of the council. They're always talking about it and the highest. The prime minister speaks a lot about the need for enormous peace in this house with this constitution, but I just don't agree. I don't think there's anything to be cool about in this house. The covenant is to take place in the nation. It's up to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. How brilliant it is that we and the senator agree that we should, of course, base on the findings of a government body, and we agree that this must be a collective work. We agree on that. But that's the problem that we'll never get out of somehow, whether we are. A senator agrees, or does not, that this may be more of a decision for the nation than for us here, that there is nothing natural unless the situation has escaped. Nothing will happen in the affairs of the Constitution unless it is somehow covered by a council and the council will have some conclusions on the matter. I know it as well as what it is. A senator that if there's no considerable agreement in this room on certain matters, they don't go through here so cheerfully, especially on fundamental issues like this. It needs to be more at peace than others, so it may not be surprising that changing the constitution has been difficult. Perhaps our problem is to some extent that changing the constitution is so tenacious that it is difficult. That is why it may be important that we in this traffic deal with the problem, i.e. that we change the process as part of this pooled review. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u73	President. My colleague was telling me to go to the highest. In his talk, Prime Minister mentioned that the proposals of a board of laws should be given as long as I believe they should be fundamental. There's a difference. I just wanted it to be clear. With regard to this blessed resolution, it will only take more than one piece to accept a new constitution. There will never be a complete agreement. I don't see that ever happens. It is also a question of whether groups who want a new constitution will get a course to do so in the next election. There is a measure of reconciliation that the nation could show. But this perfect peace, that every company of this council shall be content with the constitution, shall never be. There's something else we need to approach. The people must make peace. The people need to tell us what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u74	Mr. President. It is easy to agree with and disagree. Senator. She even said that. that young people don't have a future in Iceland. She also said that if it was held that looked, there would be no community to take over in Iceland. I don't think that's the correct diagnosis. It is very easy to disagree. You can also agree that social security and work days need to be revised, thus balanced in your fine speech. But I'm gonna come in on two things, on the other hand, about the constitution. 37% of the nation, of those who had the right to vote, agreed to a general set of rules. It was a work plan. It wasn't a complete constitution. I think that's a common misunderstanding. It's gone so far that a certain man of the University of Iceland has called this coup, let's get this straight. I ask: Was this a work plan, or was it a structured constitution that was proposed in a national law that 37% of voters approved? There's one thing. The other thing about the climate. I heard why. A senator says that the current government is trying to get all the responsibility on the climate at the hands of consumers. I can't see that's right. We've put in money and a plan for energy change. There's a climate action program. There's a climate board. Start up on a climate fund. Here's a bill about an indiscretion to companies to carbon equations. I cannot see that what the government has done or plans to do is burned to the point that we are putting the prime responsibility on consumers. This is partnership, public, government and rural society. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u75	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I'm going to start by saying that I never said that young people have a future in Iceland, just to be clear. I said we have to make sure that young people see a future opportunity. I didn't think it was so, as the situation is now. For the responsibility of consumers when it comes to environmental matters, I apologize if it has been misunderstood that I have been accusing the government and her conduct in putting responsibility on consumers. I'm primarily talking about its importance, so I often feel that the responsibility of consumer consumers in the debate over the head is less than that of action when it comes to real consumers in our community that I think are the economy and the focus on an endless goal of growing profits. I feel that this is the largest cause of environmental and climate change. I'd kind of like to ignore the comment that too few have voted in the vote on the constitution. It was a national agreement. They showed up. They gave in to their will. We ignored it. How long has it been? Since then, 2,284 days have passed, and we should have agreed long ago on this new constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u76	Mr. President. I'm gonna pray. A senator's apologies if I've misunderstood what happened to the young people. Hv. A senator further said that there would be no community to accept if it was observed. That's a heavy sentence for a community of Icelandic people. I don't share it. It's not about how many people showed up. It is about the number of votes of the mixed constitution and how many of those who were certainly only a little more than one third of the nation voted for employment fines. Appreciating a fundamental constitution is not the constitution itself. It is very long to interpret, so this 37% of the nation has been accepting the constitution. I did, for example. not with my vote. I agreed that there was a good work plan for continued work, and I testified that a great many of the voters were doing just that. Of course, it's not good Latin when you're accepting a constitution that only 37% do so, 75,000 of over 200,000. If this were to be a real national agreement for a real constitution, where would it happen? It was indeed a schemer of national regulations, and it was being sullied on a workaholic, as good as it might be. This is not a coup, and although it may have been 2,000 and some days since it was done, it is due to an inconsistencies on the plaguing itself, not by government kidnapping in Iceland, as this fine university professor has said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u77	President. That's an interesting discussion. I like to see where people really stand in it. I think it's important that 43.8% participated in a national law on the sentences of the Union in their time and 45% on excommunication, while 49% participated in votes for the Constitution. [[Up front.]] 49% participated in votes for the constitution, but that was only a consultant, unfortunately. I don't share these ideas. This is a democratic matter, and we should take care of it as soon as possible. It's my hope that we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u78	A respectable president. I'm going to review some of the issues in this discussion today and begin with a discussion on transportation. The aims of an ambitious transport program will be measured, not for miles, but for the lives and quality of life. In order to help reduce accidents and increase traffic security, it is most effective by various means to repair the road system, which is seen in many areas following increased traffic and heavy transport, including Because of the growing number of foreign tourists. In recent years, similar contributions are by no means an accumulated need to improve and double the number of roadways in order to meet the growth in traffic and road income, and fuel, in the long run, are expected to decrease most of the road to road development, but projections are expected to increase the use of other energy sources in the coming years. That is why new means of financing is expected to be directly paid more and more. The protocol schedule for the 2019/2033 was submitted to the Council of September and recommended in October. It indicated that over 600 billion for transport over 15 years would be made available, while other means would be expected to be introduced later by means of financing. I've said that paying for urgent transport projects in the interest of traffic security is one of the paths to be considered. I quote my review speech for a transport plan, by permission of the President: The General Assembly agreed to engage in new financing routes can speed up the pace of important road and landing projects in the strategy. Three labour groups have worked as secretary to transport, one on the construction of transport in the capital area, one on the expansion of the international flight and the construction of the flying system in Iceland, and the third staff were ordered to propose a quick-forward application of individual projects, which are now proposed to be of the transport programme by using some or all of the new methods of financing. The work force was also assigned to shape the long-term funding of the road system because of energy exchange, and this is part of the climate action that we in the government are taking. This group has the responsibility of staging proposals for the use of individual workers, their implementation and the assessment of income in cooperation with Vega. The work of these three groups has been presented to an environmental and transport committee and has been discussed in their suggestions. The transport sector is still operating, requiring more time to implement the proposals better than there are a number of available. Pays will be paid, e.g. not to collect until the construction of individual workers, which would be first in a few years when such grand projects would be completed. The aim of new transport funding routes, road charges, quick charges, or what we would like to call it is that there is a large increase in national security, speed up projects, distances between habitats, support of public transportation, and support of the land's sector. At the same time, we have been working on a strategy adopted last year. The work is hard to accomplish it. It is an ambitious program that includes 54 specific actions that nearly all the Ministry is responsible and involved, but a great number of executives are involved there as well. Many activities are already under way and are being carried out. For example, last year the applications for strength were advertised by three measures, i.e. Specific projects; parishion plans, telecommunication stations, and shopping in rural areas A total of 160 billion were distributed. K. to 19 projects on the basis of the three operations and when the grant has been advertised for this year, while a specialized selection committee offers a proposal for a minister on which projects to be strengthened. Other measures, such as support for Frastructures, telecommunications, and Iceland, are being developed in light, with 230 million running for the three projects last year from a community plan. It should be noted, then, that there is now a legal arrangement to take up one of the state's policies on rural society and, among other factors, which must be handled there are ways to promote and strengthen the level of government, including together, as well as how to make better use of the equation fund for that purpose. These are things I entered at the European Union Parliament last fall. More than half of our community has fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, i.e. 39 out of 72, and 25 communities, more than one third, have fewer than 500 inhabitants. A project management of the status and future of Icelandic rural society, which gave their opinion and suggestions last year, concluded that their rural communities were too small. This attitude has also been expressed in conversations with some local authorities and others in that regard. Much time and money go into rural business, and there are too little opportunities for policy development and to shape future vision. It was assessed by the task management board that the current rural network is partly maintained by cooperation between rural partners, by collaboration agreements, national cohesion and the field of partnerships, and that the development of the existing subsidies is also involved. I can agree with this and would like to see changes in this relationship, but it will be the task of the County Government to shape a conversation with the government level in the next few months. We can see that the imminent lack of teachers is unsatisfactory. The government has resolved to strengthen the setting around teachers at all school levels, to promote recognition of their jobs, and to promote professional independence. The proposals have been made with great force within the Ministry of Education and Culture in cooperation with the school community, and they will be reduced to execution. We're going to turn on the offensive and build an excellent educational system. We saw positive signs on the air. In the fall when teaching courses began to grow considerably, but we need to do better. We are also promoting a multi-functional work, industrial, and occupational program. This includes strengthening outdoor development by training students and increasing their access to the study. For example, expenses were dropped and we are investing in a better position and further introduce to the wide range of educational and work options available. The work is beginning to work. For example, incorporated students on high school to-dos increased by 33% between years on the headphone. We are going to continue on that course. We've increased the college level by far more than this year except its contributions by 47 billion, an increase of 2.2 billion since 2018. We will continue to invest in college, to promote learning and research, and to increase the quality of study. A general review of the loan fund of Icelandic students will be successful and its bill will be submitted in the fall. Then the government has set Icelandic in motion and has already taken important steps in that direction. The bill on the support of the publication of books has become the law and the Minister of Education and Culture has submitted and recommended a synopsis of 22 teams on the scope of Icelandic technology, including An investment in a financial program so that we can make Icelandic currents in the future digital world, also improving the environment of the unique media, the building of cultural houses in the sheepfold and the Elisium, and the development of childhood culture especially by means of a new childhood culture. Then I'd like to comment on the new Department of Social Affairs, which began on January 1 in the context of the Ministry of Health. The work going on there is many, and some are huge. These include the work of a meeting group on the changed social security forwarding system. The system is aimed at ensuring sectoral motivation where increased emphasis is placed on early intervention and rehabilitation using a cross-cutting approach. Thereafter, changes in the disability and rehabilitation of social security will likely be made in accordance with the recommendations of the consultation group. For the council there is a proposal for the resolution of a child protection strategy to 2020, which is an ambitious document, and as a new minister of social and child - care agencies, children are the key issues of the Minister for the coming miseries. Much effort is put forth to explore the environment of children in Iceland and wide consultations with experts, all members of Congress, and other external groups in this regard. How can we improve the benefits of the Icelandic community of our children? The above statements have been signed by the Declaration of Will of Ministers and on the basis of its decision to operate in the week of child management, represented by Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Justice and Health Ministers and are directed by the Directorate of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. Various groups are involved, including Intensification of early activities of addiction for children and young people is increasing and ahead, the building of a new treatment home for children and young people with a wide variety of problems and an idea that a so - called low - threshold resort can be taken in which children and young people can search without having been given special references to grab ahead and faster. There are other groups of people, a group of people who are going to make specific arrangements to make it easier for young people to buy apartment housing. There is a working team to recommend reform, whether within the birthworm system or in other ways to pregnant women in the country. There have been reports of changes in maximum pay for obstetrics. There have been agreements between refugees, the multicultural centre has been promoted, and many more. There's something else I wanted to say. The big business that the government faces is the choice of conversation and housing. Less tax burden from low-payers and middle-in-the-houses is something we're going to introduce tomorrow to the labour market partners. There are issues with regard to the insurance policy, the staff of the index, and other matters that would be interesting to discuss at this meeting, but my time is not enough to do so now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the crossing, though fast, finds me moved to ask: Is the highest. The transport minister is aware of the fundamental changes now taking place in the majority of the environment and transport committees regarding the transport programmes he proposed in the fall to five and 15 years of age? Now it is so, so I witness directly to the word of the highest. Ministers, that there is no perplexity in the Treaty on road expenses, however, a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee has proposed significant changes in his and the government's transport programme and proposed a road taxation to all international tunnels, irrespective of implementation, of all infrastructure in and out of the capital, on individual roads and bridges, including In the districts of the minister and in many parts of the country, unscheduled roots within the capital area. Is this suggested regardless of whether projects will meet the assigned roads and therefore cannot be compared, e.g. for acts and charges in Vella-hall tunnels or Half-a-gain tunnels. So here, Mr. President, for a general road tax. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who said that he was completely opposed to a court order about a year ago: "What has changed? The road system is in the same shape as then. What happened, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u80	Mr. President. I am delighted and obliged to explain again and again the difference between setting up a roadtoll gate, which I said we were opposed and not doing anything about it in the government covenant, and the means we've been trying to implement, and I wrote into a transport program. I considered it in my case, certainly enough to get more involved, that in a transport program, we had said that it was interesting in view of the need for the structure of the road system to look at other roads. This has certainly been done. I think it was very important, and I thought it in December when these cases were being discussed that we would look for any means of making it as much as possible to make peace with this system change, which is, in fact, a change of order. Sources of energy exchange, our desire, and our desire to fulfill our goals in climate change, including the following: to change the energy in your cars. This will mean that the income we receive through fuel costs of 17, 18, 19 billion will fall to about half, even when 2025 is due. That income will not be enough to survive that road. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I have watched with positive eyes the work of the environment and transportation committee and am ready to continue that work and cooperate with the public throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u81	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. A transport minister admits that there should be a general taxation that prevents oil and fuel taxes, which should not fall when road management is completed, as is shown by the majority of environment and transport committees. These charges are said to fail when the project is completed. How do you make a sound as well as a picture here when it's the highest. A secretary of transportation says that it is new taxes that must come in because other taxes fall down? In 2019 the state receives 80 billion from cars, but it uses 29 billion, 36%, to prevent it. Can we agree on using the taxes that the government already receives from the public in the country, regardless of income? In fact, it is an advantage to talk about that tomorrow the government will introduce tax reductions to the most significant material reductions in the same week that are spoken of as the number of tax increases in the wealthiest, totally independent of income? What will the government do about securing the equation in the country with such taxation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u82	A respectable president. I'm not sure I'll last the minutes to unwind all the false records as well. A senator went forward here, but I'm going to try. First of all, public tax is not being said. There is talk of the possibility of taking quick action that would carry out that way, specific projects cost the amount specified. And those who pay for their use will pay for the construction after that, just as I said in my case. If it had been done in 15 or 20 years, it would have been done that way. At the same time, however, we need to look for the reduction of automobile owners's curses from 18◯19 billion on fuel costs, possibly to 9 billion. It is the money that has been marketd for building up roads, not 80 billion, which is the value tax of all kinds of items, parts e. cerera. I guess it's 46 billion that actually come from cars. This has resulted in about 73% last year on the road, which is the peak if we look at the ten - year period in proportion, rising. [[The president calls.]] So we have. But I've never talked about taking that 80 billion valuable tax from the stocks and imports of cars and goods to make money for building road systems. It's simply wrong. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for extensive overview. I'd like to take this opportunity to talk to him about transport improvements in the capital area. This has been made clear by three advisers who have talked about the ideas of roadtom and the changes in transport funding are in the developing stage. Good-bye. As clearly as it has been discovered that more of the environment and transport committees intend to take it out of a committee, if not this week, during the following stage. And no matter what. Minister says, here we are talking about roadtoll, side, even electronic. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in view that the idea that it is currently taking approximately 40 billion out of the highest transport program. Ministers, projects in the Great Rygúsvík area and the southwest area, putting them in the roadtolls rather. Is a minister for interviewing these requirements, including the city's government and our citizens who build this area, that all the way in is a clear agreement on the urban funding of the line? [[The president calls.]] It's also not mentioned in the change, let alone a bit of funding, and I'm asking the minister: Is it within the picture at the same time that there is a change in funding that the city line is hand-selling, a state-and-party agreement, a full funding?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u84	A respectable president. Thank you for a good question. I don't understand why you can't get that into the conference room properly. As far as I know, it's the discussion of the Committee that people have a complete understanding of the fact that there is a difference. Three changes in some kind of currency. It's an idea to take an additional charge from a tunnel because of the maintenance and safety level above the road. No one's talking about reimburseing the cost of a tunnel. It has been a hurrying project that we've talked about earlier, and since then an idea of some kind of city fee has been discussed, including the following: to propose to the capital, a possibility that they may submit such charges. This would be part of the agreement that will be made between state and rural society and has been aimed at finishing in the following months, in February or March, where we would complete the building up or imagine how we will complete our public transportation in the next 15◯20 years, in the capital area. The benefits would be immense in safety and structure. All of this I've imagined as part of the solution. I appreciate the opportunity to talk about it here and would actually be interested in getting more time to discuss it in this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u85	I'm gonna let me ask you the highest. Minister again through the city line, if I wasn't clear earlier, because I want to know. I call it a city line, and it may be at the top. Ministers, like some other ministers or members of the greater part, hiccups on that word, but I feel comfortable with it. The question is: Is it within the picture that along with the adjustment proposals that the greater part is going to submit to the current transport programme, a clear and binding agreement between state and rural funding agreements will be established on the city line? Then I wondered. It is stated that a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees believe that the transport programme will be submitted within 3 years and at the same time as financing, further published, etc. It has also been shown in the case of individual committees that it can be the very next fall. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is he working along with all the work that will bring up a new transport plan for the next fall? [[The president calls.]] Is that the ultimate goal? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u86	A respectable president. This is what has happened in conversation with the rural areas in the capital area. We are in a very different location than we have been for many years dealing with state and city and city SSH, the union of rural society in the capital area. We have made a declaration of how we take care of things for ourselves and that it has been since won and suggestions, including them. introduced to a transport and environment committee for some aspects of the transport process. Then it was also clear that in the months that followed, as I said before, in February or March, in connection with a financial plan, and with other things, binding agreements with SSH, state - and rural society, would be resolved on financial obligations. You can't do it now because we don't have everything to do with it. However, it will be slow in the next few months. Therefore, it may be important that we take up a discussion of the transport plans and the fast - moving system changes so that all of us are better equipped with the fingers and understand the process better. It may well be that we need to slow down, but this does not change the fact that we may need to complete a transport plan and continue on the timeline, and then we'll have a new plan for transport in the fall. [[The president calls.]] That's the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Transport and Regional Minister for a massive crash here. I'd just like to step back to the proposed roads of the so-called. It's all about financing. At the same time, I find that our priorities in life are quite remarkable. Seven billion started lowering the bank tax by 63%. Was it needed? I can't hear you say something like that. 2,000K. a cost of 2.5 million tourists. That's 5 billion. Why is further and more widespread apocalyptic? What are the main causes? Who can buy for 70,000 dollars tickets to lower the price of their trip through the Valaala wannall tunnel? Not a microchip, that's clear, not a low-payer who gets a 200,000-220,000 bucks. I'm just asking, you know, a respectable president and the highest. Minister: For God's sake, don't forget those who have to sit down with these things. [[The president calls.]] Can we not try to make some other setting? This is ill - thought - out, and it bites on those whom should least be mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u88	A respectable president. I object it's unconcerned, it's particularly well thought-in and a lot of thought. It's about traffic security. Each year, as a community, we suffer loss because of serious accidents and death accidents, there are in the range of 50 to 60 billion, apart from an ark, and all the consequences of such accidents. By hurrying up and thus thinking about the project, we could, and I would set it as a goal, drop this amount by half, take it down to 25 billion a year. Each year, we could save 25 billion because of accidents, but, of course, much more in fewer accidents, less grief, lost lives, or lost the quality of life of people who have to live with some type of ark for the rest of their lives because they have been in a car accident. I'd say it's far more important to stress it than to talk about a poor price. I think they're absolutely well thought-in. However, it is completely absurd to mix all of this together, as was done here, with bank tax and other tax returns. Of course, the tax returns directly to all our tax payments, all our interest payments, and increases the interest rate, making the interest decrease. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] This may be far more important than the financial resources that many have noted. Then some form of return work is being taken care of. However, it is also said that those who once combed through some kind of route will pay a relative higher price, and that is just travellers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u89	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I couldn't figure it out. At no time would I recommend that you do anything about transportation and especially about security issues on the roads. I was primarily talking about the priorities of the government of the city's funds, of our money. Is it not easier to set more priorities in the interests of the people rather than add more taxes? Is it not reasonable to recognize that setting priorities should be more important so as to make a favor possible? It's always the ones who have the least to pay. It is always expensive to be poor. It costs 1,500 bucks. Going through the Vállalain tunnel if you don't have a map, but you can turn it down completely to 700 bucks. if you buy 100 tickets at a time. That's 70,000 bucks, tops. Minister. I'd like to mean that the group of people I belonged to, and yet I still belong, though I'm now a superman, I can never buy this map. That's beyond the construction of this. [[The president calls.]] Some old man drives through, doesn't have his cell phone on his way to Hornfjörður, and that's when he's just charged an extra dime because he's been paid not later than three hours after driving through the tunnel. I don't know what kind of song this arrangement is, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u90	A respectable president. The government's priorities have been and are very clear. We have put our primary priorities in the interests of our health - care systems, including those in our country. to reduce the payment of smaller hands. We've been looking at changes in the tax system to reduce the tax burden of low-payers and those with lower incomes. We have done a number of things in the welfare system, which accurately focus on these same factors, so our priorities have been clear and have been set for some time. As a result, too little money has gone to transport. However, we have greatly increased them, have taken a portion of the bank's money and put into practice for the next three years, 5.5 billion a year for three years directly involved. As a result, the project for the next three years is much higher. However, when we conducted a transport program, it was found that the demand for construction, the desire for people to get better safer roads, was far more than we could answer with it. That is why we put it in a transport program so that other means could be considered. [[The president calls.]] That's what's going on. She's not in bad shape. It will do marvelous things to increase the security of our country if we go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u91	A respectable president. It's a matter of safety that you pay dues. I read from the Government Treaty of the current government, with the permission of a president: ▪ A project is faced in the national infrastructure. These include transport, communication, host systems, and other activities. In the years that follow, there is room for government property to be used on such projects, thus ensuring the solid infrastructure that is the basis for a wide range of intensive and high commercial living all over the country. I haven't heard many people contradict this policy. Everyone agrees that the projects are important, and if the last election was about one matter in excess of another, it was built up. However, the Treaty offers a completely different policy than the Commission's opinion that more parts of the environment and transport committees are involved. To change gears like this, to provide a road rate plan, to increase taxes in the population of the great capital, without offering any alternative, and without doing it as a commission in elections, is nothing but oppression. We are offered on roads or not, transportation, or not. If we don't want dues, we don't get anything. When it is said that these improvements are vital, it is no longer a choice, but it is emotional oppression. The question should be, not whether to go into this structure, but how. [[The president calls.]] Why do I want to ask the minister why we don't have any other options? Or otherwise: Why does the government not follow its own government covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u92	A respectable president. I could, as it were, make a very big statement about what I'd almost like to call presumptuousness in this lawsuit. First, I'm going to give less of my own words in response to our last speaker that we use property, interest money for the banks for the next three years, in a major structure in the road system; of course, traffic security comes in that situation. As I reviewed, when a transport plan was submitted, further and faster development was required, especially for transport safety, and I can no further agree. If people are beginning to experience the danger of flying to Cheflavík or driving between urban areas in the southwest corner - and unable to choose their own type of living - because they do not trust to drive on the roads, we simply need to do something. That is why in the autumn of the year, it was written that we were searching for another way, and we are still looking for other ways. They do not prevent us from continuing on in the course of the government covenant. But we are ready to think outside the box. We are ready to undergo a system change in the interest of traffic safety, in order to improve the road system faster than possible, because the priorities have so far been primarily in the interests of the health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u93	A respectable president. We definitely need a much longer discussion on this subject, and I look forward to it at the council. In the second part, I'd like to switch to another subject. Minister in his career speech. That is the question of children's affairs, but a special emphasis is placed on the issues of children, as the government's new Ministry. At least, piranha has two issues, with a lot of children's affairs being involved. On the one hand, I expect to be supported if the emphasis is really on children's issues, and on the other hand it is validation of the third optional book of the United Nations Children's Convention, which, unfortunately, has not yet been recommended. I'd like to hear that something like this is coming up, we're representing the committee as if it were valid, so we'd have a way of doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u94	A respectable president. Thank you for that question on more than transportation. People here are talking about priorities. It's a very clear priority on the part of the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs which, of course, is emphasized by the change in the work title -- I think you just need time to get used to that word, Minister of Childhood, but this is available in other countries. I think this helps to stress that it is very important to approach children's issues and make their environment safer and better. I remember the first sentence on the organizational objective in Norway - now I have to do this, with the permission of a Mr President - where it was said that organization should be good for a child and a young one, who said good for children and adolescents to grow up. I think it's very important that we make such a community. That's exactly what the Minister of Social Affairs is doing. How do we produce a worldwide covenant? We'll sign, validate, and agree and start working on them. Finally, we can say that we have taken care of all the available sites and that the institutions that have to be made have been built. [[The president calls.]] Then we will be able to take care of what needs to be done permanently. I trust it has been won.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u95	V.E.G. President. Faith in the future is deeply reflected in our baseline values during restoration, whether we discuss international cooperation, currency, welfare, environmental or equality. At the same time, we have spoken that we must not become firmly established in the past, though it is vital that we learn from it as we walk into the future. So it is certainly part of the past and the history that more than a year ago, the three oldest groups of the General Assembly were united in the formation of governments. Their declared goal was stability. That goal supported us in a restoration of our minds and said that this government would be given the opportunity, that it was an interesting experiment, but at the same time we would not give a discount on the matters of our hearts. Well, over a year later, it can't be said that the stability for which the government represents is the kind that we in Resurrection can support that there is a clean and completed position. During the first year of the government, which set out with the promise to handle the big business, it is mainly reported that the largest case of the government in 2018 was pushing against a billion - dollar reduction in fishing costs for large productions for exclusive rights on the common resource of the nation. The government groups were fully united in setting priorities for the big development. I don't think in any way that singleness and solidarity appeared to us as much as it was at the end of last year. Then, in the fall of the year, a road program was presented with a pore and pug. There was talk of the full-scale transport programme, the efficiency of the secretary of transportation, which we could mention here A, until the secretary of transportation to our number B came along with the follow-up and introduced his ideas of a completely different source of injury. The difficulty in this case is not unique. Now it's the highest. A minister of transportation, as we have heard earlier, came to the fore from his own words and course. The suggestions that now exist include massive tax increases in the southwest corner. They're still on the drawing board. It's very serious. It's an independent party offer. The idea of perpetuation has completely been screwed up by the board. Is it difficult for all of them to trust them to bring about a healthy, complete, environmental, ambitious, funded transport program that looks forward to the future for all the people and is not a lesser answer to the attacks of men within the governments? It is little more than a news story on the big affairs of the government, but to be reasonable, I would like to mention the files of the environment in which important steps were taken. Of course, in the other matters and in these matters, we will have to be aware of some disagreements from time to time. Indeed, independents put in bridges each time they reach the highest altitude. The health minister announces more changes that press the private effort, even writing some articles on the case, but doing nothing to stop the minister. In other words, a minister of financial matters does not support a full reexamination of the Constitution, as the Treaty states, even though prime minister is working on it with earnestness and firmness. Then we see that whale hunting policy is even converted into the pipes of a seafaring minister against the will of the left green. After all, it is clear what the government's priorities were in the big business last year, in a huge billions of dollars to the big production. We are still stuck with it, and we are trying to provide the government from major tax increases, especially on the southwest corner. But what about 2019 C.E.? For a short time, the most important political projects turn to how the government intends to negotiate agreements. It is the nature of the approach of governments at any given time that collective contracts are difficult. A requirement for the government that it obligates the labour market and voters clearly explain that participation of the State in the release of collective agreements is based on the guarantee of peace in a general labour market. At the beginning of this cooperation, the government exerted itself vigorously in a conversation with the workforce. That's good and good. But I would have intended to represent a clear vision of the government's access to possible tax changes, but we all know that these members do not agree on that approach. This is where we need to work out. The failures of the board on this matter will be directly responsible for employees, especially those in the low income, in the form of expensive interest and prices, if things are not right. Both for the 2016 election, and then 2017, we built our ideas on these topics. They aim to make use of the available amount of space to achieve the targets for the further equation and to ensure the increased costs of the lowest wage. The tax burden of that group has increased most in recent years. We must have the courage to face this. It doesn't mean much to fall into denial or to play numbers, as some government ministers have done. Our ideas are based on a meeting point for increasing prosperity and hiding, including in which the current tax system is surmounting radically, there will be more to increase the cost of recovery. We want to direct the person's pay off to those with the lowest salary, increase the tax limit and lower the tax percentage. We also have suggestions to reduce the basket of food from a four - man family by less than 70,000 dollars. During a month, by eliminating agricultural farms, but by counteracting farmers' direct payment. Stronger consumers translate a stronger environment for farmers. You can be sure that we will continue talking about our crown because we want to level facilities in Icelandic society and increase Iceland's competitiveness. At the same time, we invite the labour market partners to take hold of the currency business. Compared to other countries, Iceland has a good place when it comes to earning a living. However, looking at property distribution, however, is far greater inexorable. One of the reasons is the currency. It is not only that it maintains larger interest than in our competitive countries, it leads to injustice because at any time, the money owners are able to get out of the Cabinet economy than others, as normal employees, can. As a result, the Western world has no greater inequities for capital markets. And what does that mean in English? That means that they gained more money than the average earner sits trapped in a crown band. The reality, then, is that without radical change in currency and money, we will not achieve the objectives of lasting economic and social stability. Modern government demands that we have the courage to look for the future, that we find future solutions for the people of the land, who have increased prosperity and equal opportunities. That's what the restoration stands for. We are often told that a discussion about a certain subject is not timely, not now, just some other time. But we must ask: When will it be timely? After the next crash, or the next explosion, or the collapse thereafter? If we examine the story, we will know that this is what we live in, instability, and unpredictable. Such a situation is bad for the homes of the country and for the companies who cannot settle in foreign currency. The inequities are thus maintained, and it is at the command of this stational government. Madam President. Mr. President - I'd better be clear. It was quite clear when this government was made up that international affairs would be placed on ice. Keep in mind that there is very little that really has more to do with the lives of the people in this country than with the way we put our years on board in international economic and commercial contracts. Our own personal security and sovereignty depend on decisions in that area too. There is no diagnostic work to identify international and international changes and their impact in Iceland. It is one of the biggest offenses in the government business in the future. To change that, a government of progress will need to replace this stational government. It is probably too much to believe that the government itself will change policy, but it could have expert work started that could become a basis for discussion and then policy development. So I want to encourage the highest. To impress these materials and to take the initiative, Prime Minister. A sense of inadequacy in this great nation's interests will prove to be very expensive to us. The subject of all politicians and political affairs is primarily present and the future. The future will not be postponed. The past is what we should learn from, understand, and thank you. So it would be welcome if we could agree, get to work, and get into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u96	The way the president is addressed is not sensitive to the way he is addressed. Hv. All members of the council must address him as they experience him. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u97	A respectable president. There are several things to pause in a talk. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín. It is now called the turn-of-the-age tax increase in the southwest corner, when it is said that if we could speed up projects we agreed on, I and the Þorgerður of Katrín, when we were in the government last year, it would probably be to be considered if there was a hurry to work and do more. There is nothing in this that can be called direct tax increases on the southwest corner. According to the motions, there is a global payment and an equation in all the land, and there is a conclusion that the nominee does not exceed the value of the project and that those who need to use the roads. It is not surprising to hear these changes in your view. A senator on this matter because they are everywhere. Decreased fishing costs for large-sized species when it is quite possible that the older formula, which was already in force, was in force. A senator was a seafaring minister recently, who would have dropped more fishing charges. What suggestions did it offer as a sea emissary for a year about changes in that subject? It's worth your pause on a case like this, a respectable president. Then there's this thing with the whale hunting policy. They're talking about the government wanting to change the whaling policy. Well, it would be a change in the whale hunting policy to stop whales. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður was my associate at the council of 2007 or 2008 to resume professional fishing on a whale. Hv. A senator was in a government where a seafaring minister, Einar K.. Guðfinnsson, made a decision to start fishing on a whale. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður made one change in whaling in the days as a seafaring minister and on its final scale, closing large areas of the Gulf without any support from any agreement with stakeholders, in the shelter of night. [[The president calls.]] Current level. However, a marine minister has arranged for a report of neutral agents to cross the whaling, to make yet another report on the consequences and what the situation has been. This is not the kind of work being done more than a year ago in the Sea Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u98	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to address one another fully by name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u99	V.E.G. President. I'm still begging for some respect over the vows I made earlier, but you might say that we're all women inside the bone. That's fine. There is much to consider and answer when it comes to doing so. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is coming up here. Yes, I'm not gonna hide it, the charges were for discussion, and they hadn't been pushed off the table, but they weren't meant to be. A senator has been present, as it were. When it comes to taking roads, the work is not gone straight. As the ideas are now on the table, these are nothing more than massive increases in taxes on the southwest corner, and they are offered to the Independence Party. I got it. I got it. A senator to consult with his associate Óli Björn Kárason, in this respect, which specifically warns against going to a general tax increase, as it is supposed to be the case. And beyond that, and it also impresses me, there is no longer much on the transport program with regard to the capital area. The major projects we need here in the capital area are not in the transport programme, except for the natural public transportation as well as the weather. Like half of the Independence Party, a senator has never shown great interest. The southwest corner is being pushed into a massive payment by the Independence Party without allowing us to discuss something or anything. They're talking about meeting the council 15 minutes before Christmas, but I'm asking, "What kind of practice are these?" The sad fact is that by means of these methods, good ideas are being destroyed in many transport - related issues. I'm quite ready to discuss it, and I've been worried about men paying for it, and that they also pay in accordance with what we hurt. [[The president calls.]] We must start taking a more rich view of such factors as environmental factors. There's no record here. The environment is again set aside by the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u100	A respectable president. How amazing it is to listen to what we hear! paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir here, former substitute member of the Independence Party, former senator and minister on behalf of the Independence Party for years of years. A senator with whom I served in the company for many years. It seems that it has become some sort of competition, above all, to cut into the independent party and toying in its spoken - out goals. Its compromise is inconsistencies with the goals we have set out, the goals we have in our work to promote transportation, to reduce accidents, and to facilitate the necessary ways in the country to be able to do so. share in the grand increase in tourists coming to the country. Were the Whelf Legs raised by taxes? Was a what? A senator may be among the 70% of the people of the country who were at their time opposed to the construction of a Half - land march? I don't know. But I think that today, if you'd look at what a man's view of the Hagland march was like, it would be undeniably positive. There is no increase in tax increases in the southwest corner. In order to ensure traffic security, deposit is being made to reduce accidents on the most accidental chapters in our road system outside the capital area. They're trying to reach out to the large, large group of tourists coming here to take these big steps. It is clearly stated, as I came in earlier, that the commission does not exceed the benefits it brings. [[The president calls.]] This may take into account the reduction in emissions resulting from this, time savings, fuel saving, and the positive effects of taking major steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u101	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must begin to realize that I am no longer a member of the Independence Party; he must accept it and listen to the criticism I have to offer. I must admit I'm warm to my old party. I hate to see that he no longer has the wide appeal he had in years before. I find it difficult, and up to the oddness of seeing the Independence Party offer direct and indirectly suggestions that include gross tax increases in a certain area of our country. It hurts, and not in harmony with what the Independence Party has talked about over the years. Hv. A senator came across the way we want to build up our road system. Of course we want to build it up. During our restoration, we are ready to review all the suggestions in which the matter is taken into account. But we do not want to force one area above another into the shapes of roads that include gross tax increases in that area. That's all there is to it. In fact, it is a fine example of how to deal with roads, how to finance important projects. They are examples of an outstanding project. But another route could be offered to the public. There was another way to choose. [[Up front.]] And what's it going to be? A senator inviting the Southnes to join the Krysavík? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're going to Cysurvik, and then you get the Southland road into the city? [[Up front.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Up front.]] The Southnes are a fine example, and they have to pay for all the routes they have to go to get their way. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's unthinkable, as it's done, and it hurts because the idea of paying for the use is good. I find it painful to see that it is especially the Independence Party that has destroyed that methodology.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and also congratulates him on his son at the World Cup soccer tournament. The sex, whether it is the sex, even both of them, will be clearly swallowed up by it. But, hey. A senator spoke of the oldest classes at the General Assembly that are being joined in a sedentary romance and that he would give no discount on the issues of restoration of the heart. As I have understood the seminary of the Parliamentary Developments, the heart is entering the EU and thereby a new currency, a fiscal auction, and thus a sea - out compression, and a change in systems such as agriculture. Now we've got a what? A senator and his company once served in the government after he entered a council, and none of these cases were in the government covenant there. So I ask. Councilman: Will Correction continue to give a discount on his own heart, these big cases, if government cooperation is available to form the Independence Party as it was in the past 2016-2017? Will the platoon continue to give a discount? A statement was made by the preeminent of the party earlier that the restoration would give no discount. When will we see what? A senator realizes that these dreams of the Prince's Prosecution are attained in comparison with the groups that are present at the General Assembly today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u103	Mr. President. I'm thanking you for your son, but he's just gonna have to be the way he is, he's great as he is, and I hope he's not going to suffer for having his parents, he's the way he is, and the whole Icelandic national team is great. [[Up front.]] I look forward to the next five years and see how they move on. I know that a good mind followed these wishes. Then I just want to thank you. A senator for bringing out exactly what we want in Uphold. We want a market route for fishing. It is proper to also point out that we are a natural feminist party and are not afraid to say it, say we represent equality and feminism. In fact, in the 15 minutes we were in the government, we may be able to resist the same amount of pay we have received, which is of enormous importance to us Icelanders. What else did we do? Hv. A senator says that in the fishing road, we have not obtained any marketing solutions. We set up a peace committee on a fishing field, which I thought was all classes, except maybe one, being relatively satisfied with, they were sincerely at that job, all classes except perhaps the largest group at the council. That is exactly what I would like to commend the left - green for having been sincerely involved in that cooperation. I still believe that we can make more peace through the water. We are often told that we are always talking about the EU and its currency. Yes, because changing currency is a huge interest in the nation. We have the largest growth in Europe. We have to pay up to three times as much for an apartment in Iceland as we do in foreign lands. A family of four pays three times higher interest here. It pays up to 70,000 bucks. More for the food basket here than outside. This can be corrected and the agricultural system can be changed by strengthening farmers and families in the country. [[The president calls.]] We did well by one example, and that was when we changed our vegetables policy. As we overcome obstacles, we raise our direct strength to the farmers. This too can be done, reducing the cost of the basket and increasing the buyfulness of Icelandic families.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u104	Mr. President. I just want to say that I was complimenting you. A senator for her son's success rather than vice versa, commending her as a mother. In terms of the big issues revere so much here at the council, I felt as if it weren't part of the case. The senator would be willing to give a discount if there was a possibility of a government partnership. It was shown in her earlier case that no discount would be given by a prince, a discount that had been given to the first government formation that the pack had a chance to enter. I think he's still licking the wounds after that government exploded. Big business like the EU and entrance into the EU, of course, has some advantages and defects. I have never since been drawn out by them to fail to join the EU when there are all conflicts in the European Union today with Bfenit and in various countries within the Union. In terms of currency, I have found it simple in the discussion that the euro can be adopted without walking in the European Union and all that comes with it. It's just not an option to record euro without entry into the European Union. That's why I've found this to be a lawsuit where women are moved to simplify the subject, with a single penline to reduce interest in Iceland, lower products and so forth, without following all the arts that would disqualify us for a Icelandic society and that would completely change our independence into economics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u105	Mr. President. Let us bear in mind that once Iceland's Member States has been assigned to the European Union. It was done in the United States government and left green. [[Up front.]] That application was sent, and I think much rather that the party should be quite proud to have tried to face the future, and that's what we're talking about. We want to look to the future, and we will continue to speak for the matters we feel are all relevant to, especially to the people of the country, the ordinary wageman we know is in a very different position compared to the money owners in this country. While the average employee sits with the crown and capital owners can cross borders very easily, playing with it. It's an inconsistencies, and I would have thought that a class that thinks it's a struggle for social stability, social justice, would just as well have some opinion of this and even bring us into the struggle to try to change the currency. We have a currency that increases discrimination in our country. I reiterate that without the radical change in currency and money, we Icelanders will not achieve our objective of a lasting economic and social stability. That's extremely important. And I would also like to state that the government that exploded in the last year was blown up by certain princes, including the Princes. was also a group of us in the government, a bright future, which cut off the highly understood government unions, not to be offered everything that came from the Independence Party. You have to face it. Now we watch a government that includes the Left green backs up a lot of things. It will be interesting to see how the whales are going in the near future. There are other issues that I think the left of the green must also feel rather uncomfortable. [[The president calls.]] But we'll see what happens. The future lies beyond the corner, and it is for us to talk about matters that ultimately matter to the nation. We'll think it's even on wood. is the currency and the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u106	A respectable president. Since this is our first day of this spring council, I think it's appropriate to say, "Dear Americans and all of us, a joyful new year." I'd like to look back a little bit. I'd like to look at it when we were going on Christmas holiday for the winter, see how the situation was then, when we had put up the budget and it went through, see how the dresser and the prowess came to the worst. Add-onment to the elderly and to the poor, at least invalids, were zero crowns. The only thing they received was a 3.6% correction as per law required that each year be carried out and I refer to the social security law, No. 100/2007. In the 69th. I never say it enough, I hope the drop hollows the stone, and suddenly there's some fantasy in this chamber, and everyone realizes that what I'm saying is a big truth. In the 69th. says, with permission of the president: The health benefits of the social security [...] will be changed annually according to the budget at a time. That is why it was the 3.6% corrected this year, which probably returns to the envelope on February 1, where it is paid a month later. It also says: Their decision shall take into account pay development... Is it possible that this 3.6% will be the basis for the development of pay, for some measure in the country's salary development? No, it's not. But then here comes: ▪... although they never increase less than the price of an index price.How much is it worth? That is exactly what has been done year after year. It doesn't matter, a respectable president, any pay development in the country, whether the average wage development is 7%, 9% or any other. Here, the correction of pay has only been accompanied by an index and nothing else. That's why it's really sad. But it's not all night out. New funds will be next fall, won't they? Not at this legislature, I'm afraid, but there's still hope. But there were many things that were thankful too. V.E.G. Healthcare Minister to Ref., e.g. annulls. I'm not supposed to stand here and talk about so-called political opponents, but we in The Gang of the People respect what's done well, we don't care where it's coming from. I loved it, and it was especially helpful to the memory, and especially to those who often have to consult clinics. But I'm not going to give them more compliments than this, a respectable president, it's kind of good. On the other hand, I'd like to look a little ahead, see what the situation is today. It's gonna be a huge spring council, I'd say. There are an amazing number of projects that await the council. Let's talk about, for example. the labour market. Let's talk about how it works here. It is just beginning to grow, and people call for justice. This calls for not being taxed when kept in poverty. I'd like to talk about what surprised me - what happened on December 3 of the past, maybe you shouldn't be there yet - but it's about the Ministry of Health. It reduced the consumption criteria between 2017 and 2018. I think it's totally incomprehensible, respectable President, totally new and updated, consumerism based on the University of the Research Institute of Iceland and was introduced at a meeting in the Council on December 3 of the past. It may be said that more people than I did have been appalled at what was put out in real, dignified presidents. This criteria were to be reduced by no more than 14.7%, or by 30,657 k. 223,046k. down to 192,348 k. The janitor's not in here. There's no roof in this place, no one needs to live anywhere. But I say, "Is that normal? " Can we imagine that all of this has fallen, so there is reason to lower the stratosphere and now is a reason to reduce the minimum growth? There are certain tablets used to get into these calculations, but the fact speaks for itself. What we consumers usually need to eat; food, clothing, shelter, and food on the plate; certainly, the decrease between 2017 and 2018 was not what decreased. But it's not like we don't have a partner. It is not as if we cannot bring practical solutions without ever picking up our sword and sword. We are, of course, 63 elected agents. I believe in the heart that we can have the vision of the future and the common goal of bringing together, wherever we stand, as we did for Christmas when we jointly set a law to eliminate all impairments e.g. Strength, gas grants, and sponsors to purchase equipment and a set of grants that had previously been both taxed and then reduced compensation to those who accepted social security benefits. We did this together, every senator. We thought it was just, fair, and I thought it was great. People are certainly still asking: What happened? Nothing happened? Yes, it's being carried out on February 1st, like with other things that attract the social security system. If the law goes into effect on January 1, it will not be visible until February 1 for those who enjoy it. But I would like to tell you about the wonderful solution to improve the public standard of living and, in reality, put out the huge fires that seem to be on fire all around us in the pay market. I think we can all agree on that, more dignified President, the first step is to stop paying taxes and reduce poverty, that's the first step. The second step is to look at what the people have been offering in winter, for every bill we have put forth is to improve the interests of those who are bent on their feet. And here I stand, the chairman of the Sons' people, saying, "Please. Our bill is about 300,000 bucks. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy. There you go. The bill we've been working on, for example, in terms of insurance, and even if it was only taking the mortgage out of an index number that has cost home and company in this country for the last five years, it's only yours. We don't have to do anything with this, not unless we know in the heart that we're going to get it done, not unless we know we won a series of articles, and we're ready to share it with you. Just put your arms around it. Let's do this. Let's stop it. Shall we wait? Should we wait until it's all burning in strike episodes, seven or eight weeks, eight or ten weeks, or whatever that is? Why can't we have prevention and drive this thing and do it here and now and just now? I'd like to have a great assembly, since we can handle all the big and important issues that we need to handle. I think the dresser business and the cower battle of low-payers are the strongest out of the water today, taken away from a transport program, and everything else important. We've got to start over there. That's what I think and believe. A respectable president. All I'm saying is that I have complete faith in the Council and I'd like to say that we should be able to stand together, get together, get together, do whatever group we're on and do it properly. If we can help at the Gang of the People, we're ready to do anything for the poor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u107	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his speech and positive comments to the government. I think it's important to have this attitude, that it doesn't matter where good comes from, you can support it as a person. I think it's the common objective of all of us, I agree with that, to eliminate poverty, as has often been done. We're getting close in a different way. We don't always agree on paths. I think the site that was recently opened, this huge database that was opened under the leadership of Prime Minister Friday, is a device that helps us approach this group even more than has been so far. Therefore, it is not to deny that although we do know a particular group of people, there has not been a combination of data. I think this is one of the things that can help and lead us. Like what? A senator mentioned these contracts are free. They are waiting for a certain corruption, whether by tax change or by some other means. Last day, I noticed that ASI proposes a completely different route than, for example. VR and Ephling. Not all of us may agree, those with whom we have a conversation, on which ways they want to handle the project. But I agree with what. Senator I think we've contributed quite a bit, as she mentioned, including by paying attention and other services that have helped to support the groups of less involved. I believe we're on the right track, but together we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. It's good that we have this database, indeed, but we may not need to be able to do a lot of research. We need mainly to focus on the fact that the individuals who get paid under 300,000, perhaps 220,000,400,000 bucks, simply getting a little too small. They just don't make ends meet, so I'm just stuck there. I'm just stuck there, looking where the need is most, where people have been on their knees asking for help. That's where I look. Let's say that there are ten people in this business, and the pay is really good, and they say there's a very good average wage in this company. Nine employees have 400,000 bucks. ... butthepresident has 4 million. What's the average wage? They're over 700,000 bucks. We must also look at the facts cold. What are some of the people who are in the very place that they cannot support themselves, our people who have been begging for help? That's where I am. And I'm appealing to all of us because I know we think it's fair and fair to help these people. It's my religion, so that's just what I'm calling out for. I'm not messing things up, I can't watch any more. I'm stuck there at first, but I think that's the beginning of all the good work we're supposed to do right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think we share in many basic thoughts of getting the poorest people out of poverty so that they can live in decent conditions and enjoy life as the rest do. I mean, this is a device that helps, what I mentioned earlier, with this database. I agree with that, too. A senator needs to discuss a median of pay, but not just a average wage, that's a better approach. As I said before, I believe we are supporting this group in many ways, some but not all of them. Dentists, returns, and so on certainly help the poorest group. Since then, we've been improving child support, growth reforms, and so on. All of this, all ticklish. I agree with what. A senator that can do better if he has to. I think it is the sincere will of this government to go there. The changes being made that are being made and that are fused from the companies they have been given for the job, including With regard to the income tax business, it can be said that on our left green watch, the goal will not be to support those who have it worse than the other, but we will bring about closer to that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-21-54.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator still on the counter. I'm also looking for 220,000 bucks. signed. I have pay money from people who even get so little that it's heavier than tears. It tells itself that basic needs will never be met, impossible to provide food, clothing, and shelter. Caring for their children and giving them what seems normal, and of course, it's not possible, and I'm speaking from experience. We think about how the government can come in there to support these families even more, and then I'm also talking about our children who live in poverty. I'm talking about rural society that may not be able to help with school meals or school - day homes, so the little six - year - olds take a key home around their necks because Dad and Mom can't pay for a school home. It's a lot of things to look at. If we focus on and keep our limits exactly there, and we're not going through a wide field right now, we could meet our workers, our low-payers, and hit them. We have to start right away. I'd like to believe that left greens don't get caught. They have to stand up for their work. I trust and believe that it will be, and I don't want everyone in this room, even though there's almost no one here now, feeling that it's a big fair and fair thing that we can all focus on this. It is said that it is better to focus on one thing at a time and to do it properly and clearly rather than go through a wide range of territory and do everything halfly. This is what I see in my mind that we need to deal with right now to extinguish fires and meet those who have been on our knees for the past few years asking for help, those who have chosen us to help them.
