ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u1	President of the United States reports: ▪ As recommended by the prime minister, I have decided that the Council should meet at the end of the meeting on Wednesday afternoon, August 28, 2019 p.m. 10:30. Lock into sites, August 16, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. General Parliamentaries welcome further meetings in 149, in accordance with existing agreement on organization debates since June.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u2	Thank you very much. Her minister offers excellent words immediately. General members and staff of the Generals welcome to the work as well as the members of the Generals. There is a good agreement on the arrangement of the council these days that is planned for Congress today. It is my hope that the Senate work will be successful in completing the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u3	The President has received a letter dated August 13, 2019, from Jón Þór Ólafsson, 8th. We're out of here. "Where he resigns as the fifth vice president of the Generals. The election of the new vice president shall be scheduled for the next meeting, i.e. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u4	Borist has a letter from 2th. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So today, on Wednesday, August 28, at the General Assembly I, a deputy of the left - left movement is taking up an offer of green in the Northeast, the Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u5	On January 22, 2000, at a conference. were temporarily elected to the 7th and 8th vice president to give two related protocols that had then received a prime committee, but the president and all vice presidents had reported. Their contributions were formally completed on August 1. ... according to the opinion of the Presidency Committee. This includes the election of the 7th vice president, the Árnadóttir of Turrah, and the 8th vice president, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, fallen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u6	Borist has announced a change in the administration of Pirata's council so that Halldóra Mogensen will be chairman of the Party rather than the Thorfjörður Ævarsdóttir Avvarsdótir who becomes vice president. Then there's a Smári Mccarthy new head of Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u7	There have been letters received from the following advisers asking for every appointment to provide written answers to queries. From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Theft. 1958, of government fines and fines, of Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason. From the Department of Social Affairs for the Sports. 1572, with regard to expenses and the use of general, customized software at the Ministry and its subsystems, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson; in pacing. 1826, about an electronic building mystery, from the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson; and on a threshing floor. 1965, of Andrés Ingi Jónsson's birth and of the parents 'orof. Finally from secretary of state for inquiry from Björn Leví Gunnarsson to the threshing floor. 1571, the cost and use of public and custom software at the Ministry and the embassy, and on the deck. 1036, subscribe to newspapers, magazines, and other media.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u8	There is a agreement between presidents and the chairmans of a council on the arrangement today based on another agreement made in June. to complete Senate appointments for a summer break. At the beginning of the discussion, members of all councils will receive ten minutes each and will receive an answer. Group members speak in the following order: Central Party, Independence Party, Group, Left Company, Piratar Green Prominents, Expensitive Party, Expedition and Class of the People. But the president will look forward to giving more than an hour to the discussion. That does not include the answers. From the reference point of view, if space occurs in the afternoon, it can be replaced by a rosary. No lunch is expected. The president will meet with the members of Congress the following part to ensure that a discussion on the matter will be terminated by the end of the day. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u9	Mr. President. Already the glorious summer that we have enjoyed in the beautiful land, especially in the south, begins to sink, and we take the real meaning of life. The nation's concern is evident because of its third energy package and polls confirm that a greater proportion of them are opposed to his approval at the General Assembly. No public presentation has been made on this issue, its advantages, and its flaws. The question raised at the beginning of this discussion about why should the head agree with this question has not been answered. The question of what to agree with has not been answered. Important documents are fundamental to this matter. The most skilled legal body was appointed to give legal opinions. A special position in this regard has been given to the Friðrik Árni of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már, where the game is played two ways, and the government chose one of them. True, they have said that the second best way the government can choose is that their main proposal of the matter is to seek an agreement on the common EEA Committee that Iceland will be excluded from implementing the proposed regulations of 713 and 714 in the national rights of this country. I'd like to call attention to an afterlife party that has been distributed from a smaller part of the State Department. The shortest time available for such an arrangement will not be possible to trace it, except for as all the shortest and the big, but will not be overlooked in the legal opinion of the members of the government, which I mentioned earlier, is a firm warning. They're even submissive. that the decision and at least put in place by a foreign organisation, EFTA An indirect effect on the organization, utilisation and distribution of important Icelandic energy resources. The last three words are composed as an emphasis on the authors. They say in their opinion that the U.S. government is more expedient than the examples of this country in the 25 - year history of the EEA Convention. They say that with appropriate simplicity, it can be compared to the fact that a foreign institution was entrusted with a decision - making authority to the total resources of the surrounding fishing grounds. Mr. President. The legal guardian was to resolve the case and make it safe to accept this synonym. It thus states that there has become a search for a person who would rely on him to claim that the monovalent proclamation by the European government is at least in the national sense. The declaration is not binding to the recipient. On the contrary, the authors, Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már, expect this in a letter to the minister of foreign affairs on April 10th. that the legal guardian could possibly be the cause of a violation of a contract in Iceland on the part of ESA. In a letter to the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, August 19, 2000. they say that when they look at all the evidence, they believe that the legal warnings that have come in this section have been sufficiently introduced to relevant sources. As to national values, they do not say a single word in this letter. There have been many good visitors at a meeting of the State Department. Some have, in fact, received different types of welcome, but author of the book EEA Court and National Court, Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, asked at a meeting of the Committee on May 8, s. about the national value of the legal advance that it was nothing, just a home bridge. This statement confirmed him at a meeting of the committee on August 19th. Under these circumstances, five selections of the Supreme Court and the elected district judge have taken place. On the other hand, it has been claimed to be a small matter and to be seen in this statement by a candidate, such a detail, but it has also been claimed that the approval of this Parliamentary arrangement will result in lower energy prices and increased consumer protection. A detailed report of numerous authors, many of whom highly respected scholars, makes it clear that from a theoretical point of view, energy is less likely to decline and is in accordance with experience, both in the country and in Norway. Also, I'm reviewing consumer protection and I don't need to trace it, but let's be aware that when that case came up at a meeting of the head of the State Department in spring, or if it was on the job committee, it was stated that what is mainly lacking in consumer protection was an increase in the rate at the level of the Department of Energy, and that is perhaps a case that we were fully able to solve ourselves without installing this third energy package. The two authors take the initiative to address the possibility of a contract break-in and any possible damages against us, not because we have no obligation to add sea cables or to add to existing sea cables, but if there were a party looking for linking and receiving a revelation from the Power Institute. They are based on a series of footnotes on page 62. Thirty-five that Iceland's position on such a case wouldn't be very effective. We know this from our own experience, i.e. The frozen meat, the Belgar recognizes this, the Treaty has been sullied by the European Union. Mr. President. If this issue is not intended to be settled as planned, then at least Let's postpone it, take a closer look and listen to the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u10	A respectable president. I wondered, " How can I accept my opinion and choose certain sentences and then come to a different conclusion? ' That's very interesting work on the part of the senator. His party. To find out that the conclusion of Stefánsson's Már and Friðrik's Árni Hirst's opinion was based on the conclusion of Stefán's opinion, it is only necessary to read the conclusion. They further say that it is important to have a common understanding of the European Energy Director for Iceland's core capital and speciality. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and meaning in that context. It's totally ridiculous to come up here and reiterate it as a dog. A senator makes the statement that it has no meaning and no meaning to scholars. I wondered, " How can I attend a meeting of committees and so often come out of the words of gentlemen and fine scholars who appear before the committee? ' I give my name to Davíð, the Þór of Björgvinsson. I think it's interesting. The meetings opened the media so that all could access the case and receive all the needed information. Parliaments who sit by the visitors'comments and take advantage of what is convenient for them from their language and reports rather than from their conclusions. I'm also going to correct a problem. A senator when he says that they sent a letter after the meeting. It was a request from now on. A senator to have it reported to him. They did not find it in themselves. There was a request. A senator at a meeting of committee directors, as with everything else mentioned in the work of the Committee. And they say they think the guards were properly held, not that they had, I can't remember what was going on. A senator said, was not properly introduced or otherwise. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That was the question. The senator then asked the scholars, and they answered with a letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u11	The President reminds me of why. Senators, please keep the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answer is quick. Senator. Hv. A senator did not mention one example, not one example, that I had turned out or put words into my mouth, not one example. But what I drew attention to was what they did not say. In this letter to the State Department, they say that they consider legal warnings to have been sufficiently introduced to the appropriate authorities. It's good and good, and it's fine, nothing to look into. But what they do not say is that these examples have national rights. I'll let me bring it up. I'll tell you why. A senator finds his words, but it must otherwise be viewed as different, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u13	A respectable president. It's interesting. A senator doesn't think I've taken an example of at least Two examples of outback. Of course, pointing to experts'opinions is a presumption, but it also disagrees with their conclusions and uses opinions to reason. It is very clear that the same scholars were. A senator constantly points out that there is no legal question that the way it is proposed and lays the basis for the synonym as discussed here is in accordance with the constitution and that the fact is the most important. That's the result. As far as I know, using a specific word from a point of view is a bit out of focus and then disagree with the conclusion of the same point of view. It must simply be a way out of the way. Senator. It is also outback to talk about how an expert speaks of legal warnings, who felt that the legal warnings were entirely unnecessary because there was nothing in the third energy package that would warrant their need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u14	Mr. President. Maybe I can't help you. A senator is greatly impressed by the appropriate definition of the term "extremation. " But the other would like to say that the two writers play out two solutions they call out, two possible solutions. And I agree with their basic suggestions on the matter. I think it's careful and well-created. But when they come to the meeting and tell the other proposal selected by the government, the second best suggestion is that the government is and what it is. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, has been less effective. I fully understand, Mr. President, that their body of opinion is like a thorn in the flesh of supporters of this case because it is very strong and is a very powerful reason for the inadequacy of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u15	Mr. President. In all these discussions, whether now or before, about the third energy package, we have often been trying to get answers from the head. The members of the Central Party on reality. That's what we thought. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, then, agrees, that energy resources in Iceland are hidden from foreign power. What an enormous claim that has been made in many lands! Now I would like to ask, How does this happen? We who have been through this do not see the way at all. You can make it, but it can't resist reality. Now I'm asking why. A senator, and he's done it before, how this happens. Second, I would like to ask, again, about reality: Where has the foreign authority involved in the organization and provision of energy resources in the 28 countries that appoint the European Union? So let's come to Belgium, I'll do it afterwards, for there's a bang. A senator amassing reality by trying to create an illustration that cannot be made up of. The question is, Where has the foreign authority acted like that? A senator claims? And yet, how does this happen? What routes are available in the third energy package, which open a foreign authority way of determining where to apply, when to be activated, how to apply, what transport routes are created within the country as well as outside? The film produced in these words is not in any way realistic. She's a fabrication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is the easiest thing to answer by simply referring to the comments made by Friðrik Árni's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. I have not said anything here that is out of harmony with that opinion. I traced their warnings, and they are more than I thought, with heavy weight. There is no question about it. I just want to focus on what you're doing. A senator might do a great deal of research, but he may have had time to make this opinion. Of course it's long, 44 pages, and this is a guess of a lot of difficulty in chapters. We're in there into the deep water of the European Court. But how does it happen? They happen to form in this way as they describe them. They happen by appealing to treaties. July 25th. The European Commission decided to appeal to treat treaties against Belgium. This subject can be read on the European Commission website. In fact, this is included in the leading party of my section. That's where the address will be, if any, be it. A senator would want to know. The European Union has passed to eight countries, with France in particular. France is like us, they have a business similar to our Landing and a great national partnership like here on the fact that there is a partnership with that company. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A member of the Parliament is very simply advised to study the information that the European Union has had with France and seven other European countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u17	Mr. President. It was difficult to answer the way that foreign authority was taking place. Hv. A senator referred to the subject's opinion, but the main findings of these scholars are that our recovery of the third energy package is in order. This means that even though this danger exists, it has been fenced up. For Belgium, I'm going to read to each other. The senator's office is as follows: ◯ESB builds the case, including reports that Belgium has not supported the authority of the Belgian Electric Power Commission enough. It is also based on the fact that Belgian laws do not ensure that the transport managers control the electricity and gas network for which they are responsible, so they cannot be in a position to provide access to the network by electricity and gas sources without differences. This is a matter that has exactly nothing to do with the third energy package or over what we are here to discuss. [[The president calls.]] It's just taken out of thin air to find one example, one thing that can't resist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u18	Mr. President. The core of this case, which leads to Belgium and the lessons we must want to learn from it, is that there is an appeal of treaties against the European Union member countries. We are in a position to extend commitment by agreeing to this synonym and if it is considered to be an authority, in this case EFTA Bureau, that we have not done so fully, we are at risk of having a legal offense, as happened in the case of unbridled meat, with the consequences. The bottom line is that here we have proposed a basic change in Iceland's foreign policy, which has been that we are ready to negotiate a mutual access to the market, but we have not yet been prepared to negotiate access to market and access to resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u19	A respectable president. I have to admit to talking about what. I'm disappointed in the senator. I expected that, after the crazy speech of the Middle House here at night-long meetings in spring, after receiving a nice vacation and a good bed and empty to sharpen its case and, once for all time, show us what was so dangerous in this case, we'd get a big, good thunder talk, explaining it. But it wasn't. It's just a continuation of the same incoherent nonsense that has been brought into this case since the beginning of the question. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Hv. A senator here speaks of questions that have not been answered, that this matter has not been addressed sufficiently, but no more has been discussed in this chamber than this particular matter. No matter how many neutral views exist, all agree in refuting every claim that the Central Party has made on the matter. There is nothing in this matter that violates the constitution. On the contrary, it is fully consistent with the way we have introduced other EU types. All claims to the contrary are attributed to bullshit. There is nothing in this matter that sells in any way our custody or the provision of resources, not any created thing. All the claims or half-baked references that the Middle Party has given to it are bullshit. There is nothing that prompts us to lay down sea cables and claims of some sort of violation has been described as a law - defying climate. That's a straight-up bullshit. There's nothing that drives us to change the property of our energy companies. They're full of shit. It is unprecedented to see an entire body of Congress go out as extreme, stupid, and wrong a discussion designed to deceive the people on this matter. [[The president calls.]] That's why. A senator and his party shamed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking the time to respond here. He may not have spent much time in the discussion, and they say most of King Ólafur, who has neither heard nor seen him. Hv. A senator was not present most of the discussion that took place, and he referred to it. Mr. President. I stopped counting already. A senator had used the word "baloney " five times in his speech. I have to admit that it is not simple to have a legal place with someone who will make a compromise in the way that he is speaking. A senator does. It's very difficult. You don't know exactly where to start or end. He has not given an example of what he calls bullshit, and he displays great power in the Icelandic language by not having any more words that could possibly mean the same to increase the variety of his presentation. I don't think I've got much to say about this exchange, so intense and extreme that it is, and without a shave, Mr. President. So it would hardly take to spend the time of the Generals on it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u21	Mr. President. When so much was called after the participation of other senators in this discussion in springtime, it may be that when we finally arrive, you do not feel inclined to have a word with us. I wouldn't have been able to use the words "stupid" nonsense a lot more often. I couldn't get through all of my list during the two minutes I had available. But I understand why. A senator is well - versed when he complains that there is a difficult place to live up to the inexpensive bullshit being presented forever in this matter. I understand that very well. I've been in the middle party discussion, okay? A senator and his party, and no hands can be placed on anything in the case of those who can be handled in a materialistic way simply because they are not grammatical. Every claim made by the Central Party by neutral scholars has been refuted repeatedly in speech and literature, but it simply does not listen. This is the end of the matter. [[The president calls.]] It does not contain any of the dangers that the Central Party has held up here, and it is time to complete this discussion and that the council will take up more work than wasting more hours on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u22	Mr. President. Hv. A senator just thinks he's acting out, and that's fine. Who's flying like he's feathered? It's not like that. One senator mentioned one example of the breakdown of something we have claimed, much less of the scholars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u23	At least four.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u24	He has no examples, and he did not use his speaking period to do so. He was so busy using the rabbles and rabbles that he let himself go. That's what we'll have to live with. In case of a moment. A senator would like to discuss this in a perfunctory way, not in my position to participate in such a discussion and in a conversation. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u25	A respectable president. Just less than five months have passed since the release of the Council proposal for reexamined interpretation. This Parliamentary resolution consults the Directorate of the Council to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017, which recommend the inclusion of eight EU types into the EEA Convention. The types involved with the third EU energy pack are those that involve the internal market for electricity and gas in the EU. Because there was no improvement in the above types, the decision was No. 93/2017 taken from the European Commission on the administrative notice of Iceland. The proposal suggests that the General Assembly of the Government home to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA on the basis of a respected president that no cross-border infrastructure is available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market. So the third EU energy package on such infrastructure is not relevant and does not have a reasonable relevance for the country's environment. The preparation and negotiations of the EFTA countries within the EU to the European Union on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Treaty lasted approximately six years, in the year 2010◯2016. During this time, a close consultation was made with the General Assembly, not only in consultation with the Allied Parliamentary Committees in accordance with Council Regulations on the 2014 and 2016 Constitutional Convention, but at any given time, State Ministers explained the case and its posts in the annual reports of Foreign Ministers to the General for Foreign and International Affairs. Thus, the matter has been under consideration and a careful consideration at the council for nearly a decade. That time, however, did not alone finish the case for us, so we are here on a stubbur. A respectable president. In no way can it be said that the decision of the joint committee adopted by the European Commission on a administrative notice at a meeting of the Committee in the spring of 2017 was to arrive. Surprised by the General. On the contrary, a representative of Iceland on the Committee was fully authorized by the Council itself. In its letter to the then Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated September 20, 2016, according to the President's permission: The Commission points out that the adjustment agreed on by the two support systems of the EEA Convention and is comparable to those agreed on the European financial monitoring system, 681. According to the Ministry's memo, it was considered that the hall of the third electronic energy package is included in the constitution and is referred to as Magnússon's ratings on the European financial monitoring system. The Commission does not comment on this, but it has a right to agree that there are opinions on the matter within the committee, as per the Committee's opinion on the European financial monitoring system. A respectable president. This letter is found in the package VIII by means of my synonym. As indicated by this, the matter was reviewed at the General Assembly before the council granted its commission to approve it of the joint committee. These documents leave no doubt in doubt that during the controversy treatment of the matter, a viewpoint was agreed to observed in the State Department's memos on government opinions in 2014-2016 - when possible. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson were in charge of the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of State. They said to the General at this time, by permission of the president: ▪ During the Icelandic electrical energy system is isolated, ACER's binding decisions are not relevant in this country, since they are only relevant for matters of opinion that arise from the cross-border transfer of electricity. If ACER's decision were to move about in the future, Iceland would be activated by a two - sided system so that the ACER would never take a personal decision against Iceland. This is a note in a memo from the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, to the Generalis, and is included in the follow-up of the subject under discussion. I repeat, by permission of the President: ▪... the binding decisions of ACER are not relevant in this country, since they are relevant solely for the terms involved in the transfer of electrical energy across borders. That's what I'm saying. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then secretary of state, to the General Assembly on February 23, 2015. More than six months after the Council received this message from the then president of the United States. The minister of foreign affairs thus wanted his party, the ruler of the United States. Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson had a meeting with Britain's then prime minister, David Cameron, here in this house on October 28, 2015, where they agreed to set up a team of workers who were assigned to consider the possibility of sea cables between Iceland and Britain. A respectable president. Let us bear in mind that when David Cameron arrived here for a meeting with the Icelandic prime minister of Britain, the prime minister had not come to Iceland since Winston Churchill greeted the British military force here in 1941 and even visited them. This house here. The only significant thing at that time, Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, decided, along with his British colleagues, on this very historic visit, was to explore the possibility of placing an electrical cable between the two countries. In this light, it is helpful to consider the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department in the following issue. The poll says, with President's permission: ▪ Those who support the Parliament's arrangement have repeatedly stated that Regulation (EC) No. 714/2009 on integration of countries is not meaningful during the absence of marine cable to Iceland and the decision cause of ACER under the Regulation No. 713/2009 focuses mainly on decisions that result from the source of connection between countries, i.e. A cable. What follows, however, is that the introduction of these two directives is initiating the ideologies, the aims, and the tools responsible for one common and linked energy market in the European Economic Area. It is already linked to a large part of the EEA. This approach, therefore, is an incredibly carefree approach. A smaller part of the State Department describes it as unbelievably unconcerned and unconcerned by the Allied Council bringing in the third energy package like the ever-growing power package. The minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, arranged for the council at the time because there is a possibility that a slang like then will be laid. Prime Minister Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, wanted to cooperate with the British in the fall of 2015. Under the heading, the paper writes why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. A respectable president. I want you to know that I do not accept these criticisms. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon on the work of the then foreign minister and then the prime minister. I believe that the case was well prepared by the Ministry of State and other professionals all streets since 2010 and that the II Parliament's discussion was exemplary, regarded as intelligence, and evaluated before the General Assembly granted its course. That's why it's a turnaround. The members of the Central Party don't know what to do, and I don't think political science is enough to explain it. The reversal is, in effect, a need to consult the laws of physics in order to find some explanation. A respectable president. The proposal for the council takes into account the viewpoints observed in the treatment of the matter at the time but were not laid to the laid down of the council, i.e. to doubt the potential for extracurricular activities according to the specific types of the third energy package beyond what the Constitution allows. At one time, the General was aware of these viewpoints, which have mainly been presented by Professor StefánssonMár son, but still laid the basis for the views of other scholars. In preparing the current proposal, the audience listened to the criticism that has a grammatical basis, and the conclusion is that all scholars involved in the case agree that the induction of the third energy package in the form of a proposed complete control order. In fact, they saw Stefán the Friðrik and Árni Friar Friðriksson Hirst as their special reason for doing so after their first siege. regarding the case at our council and taking into consideration viewpoints that it specifically stated there was no legal doubt that the proposed and laid down in principle in the synonym was in accordance with a constitution. The same scholars also saw a reason for this visit to the General Assembly Department of State earlier this month, as well as the members of the committee's inquirys there to make clear that the laws of the Constitution and the custody of Iceland are properly adhered to the contributions of this case. Thus, there is no legal question that the energy package induction is in accordance with the constitution. The claims of other things fail. There is also no doubt that only the Council can decide whether Iceland is connected to other countries by fixing a cable. As with our leading scholars in this field, statements about other things have not met, now the last meeting of the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, earlier this month, has been repeated. The claims of other things fail. A respectable president. This case has been used for the treatment of the Council for nearly a decade. It has been carefully and carefully discussed. The final outcome of critical criticism has been taken into account. All of our leading experts in the administration rights and European rights agree that this does not conflict with the constitution and does not include any obligation to connect with the EU's electrical systems or other countries. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The case is closed and long ago it is time to finish it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u26	A respectable president. We're talking about the energy package and the energy we've been using to discuss the energy package is gigantian. All the power of the magazine that has come and the cost of the case - I don't know if it's been calculated but if both time and energy had been spent better. Article 5.3, Council Regulation and Council Regulation, EB/715/2009, stated at the bottom of the paragraph: With adaptive text for the decision of the joint EEA committee Iceland is the exception of the above forms where natural gas is not available. So there will be no further discussion on this type. Why didn't we have the electricity in there? If it was, it'd be over. Then we wouldn't have to be discussing this. The simplest thing in all of this would have been to put such a bilge in there. Then we won't fight here. Well, that would be the end of it. That's why I'm asking the minister, "Why on earth wasn't the electricity in there? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u27	A respectable president. Hv. A senator correctly points to our use of energy in this energy package, as well as the cost. True, I think that's normal. Although the cost has been high, it is because very many people worry about energy in general, that we are doing things that are irreversible and that can get us into trouble. It is a goal in itself to study this case well, and it has been done, I am totally guilty of it. Hv. A senator mentions - in effect, he is going over things that were not done in my time - that the electricity should have taken out. But that would be a very big, complicated decision. We have a lot of things in the fourth appendix that has to do with electronics and other things, and we've picked up an energy package one and two, I believe, a positive conclusion to most of it so that it would be a very big decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, but they were very few. The answers he had must be about gas, too. I can't see gas being anything easier than electricity, it's more complicated in many ways. We use gas in this country for the same purpose as electricity. And then why is it so easy to put annuity on gas, but you can't put a reserve on electricity? This is an incomprehensible phenomenon. And I'm asking, "Why in the hell is this?" Why was this done? What was the purpose? Perhaps it was Europeans who wanted to get into the European Union, was the point of getting us in there, which would be terrible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u29	A respectable president. I can totally agree with that, but when you have one minute to answer, you can totally argue that the answer is cheap. You're going through big business in a very short time. I don't think it's fair to put the matter into order that gas is comparable to electricity in this country. It's not at all. But more is involved too. We move, for example. There's something related to this, there's, like, electronics. export interests. Hv. A senator is referring to things that were appreciated at a time before entering the Ministry. But if the minister of that time wanted to have such an operation, it would have called for a lot of discussion and much more complex and larger matters. In case of a moment. A senator says I don't get a good look at it this minute, I think it's true, because most of the discussion has nothing to do with the third energy package, it has nothing to do with the EEA contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Also historically, a minister for the talk that covered the matter. I want to look beyond the past. V.E.G. Perhaps a minister can confirm that he was the minister of foreign affairs on May 5, 2017, when the available decision was made on the subject. But I think it would be very useful if it were the highest. A minister may explain basic questions that are as follows: What is the point? Why is this matter so urgent? What evidence is there that this is to be accepted contrary to the strong warnings given by the legal advisers of the government? [[The president calls.]] Why is the fourth energy package not examined in context, so that the overall view of this issue is covered?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u31	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson to get out of that tire. After the longest conference talk in history, it is not acceptable to say that there was no argument in the matter. It doesn't answer a few opinions. In case of a moment. A senator is interested in knowing when I have been a minister of foreign affairs. Hv. A senator asks what's wrong. We've been running the case for a decade, and instead of finishing it for us, which we should have done after we delayed the case after it was proposed to the Council under the leadership of the Chairman and Deputy Director of the Middle Party that we'd accept it, we'll go back to that. I studied all of this in my speech. Whatever it is. A senator is always saying that there is something dangerous that can't be seen. You've been through all those shows, you've never been in anything more. But I call attention to it as a boy. A senator criticisms, lying on, for it was his vice president who suggested that we finish this a long time ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I didn't mean anything. I've only held it up, as it is called, what is stated in the legal opinion of the two experts here mentioned to be employed in the interests of the Ministry of State, and then, according to the legal counsel of the court. Secretary of state. It's those who talk about the decision source of a foreign agency that is involved in the organization, disposition and use of important Icelandic energy resources. There are those here who talk about talking about more expansion on the part of Iceland than there are examples in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention. There are those who choose to compare their decision with the fact that a foreign agency was committed to a decision-making agency for total resources in Iceland. Since I'm here to address the highest. Minister I would like to ask if he would consider presenting the comments made by the State Department of State that are mentioned in the opinion of the two men mentioned in chapter 6 of that opinion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u33	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is here referring to the scholars who were concerned about the Constitution of the case. They have not even, but twice - of course, all of this is shown in the opinion, in the conclusion - a special letter sent to the Foreign Affairs Committee and, on the other hand, to foreign ministers after the discussion. I'm here to read what is stated in the second letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. There is no doubt, but there is still. A senator continues to suggest and assume, read some phrases, when this is the result, completely explained. [[The president calls.]] It's not even that they present this appeal, it's twice. Why would that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u34	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of foreign affairs for his excellent speech, especially the explanation that was most interesting to me. I'm going to be very close. I'm not going to do technical stuff, introductions, notices, anything like that. That's actually the goal that's been most important to my heart, especially any personal objective, is through the induction of the third energy package. Is it not true that we are introducing the third of the five visible packages? Is that not true, that our goal is to join a common energy market in Europe? And if so, why are we importing a pack of energy now if it has never been intended to meet the goal of which the European Union has been preparing and going on this expedition a long time ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u35	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. To make a long story as short as possible, we're in this EEA team. That is undisputed and has been a key to our success and happiness. What we do in our interest there, and in my time, it has intensified greatly, which is extremely important, is that we do research especially from the first time to prevent this from being something we need to worry about. If the EEA deal was what it was when it was approved, it would be useless. They didn't even have computers, at least not as we know them today, a long road away, or a smartphone or whatever it is. The idea is that this is still an active market. The energy has been there since the beginning. I can't do it exactly now, but most of us agree on various things that turn to energy and other things like that. The EEA Treaty is quite clear, and was discussed when he set out at his time, that we have full control of our energy resources. But if we see anything we're worried about for Iceland, we'll try to do whatever we can to avoid it in our interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u36	Thank you very much. Secretary of state for the answer, which was really not an answer. What is the aim of the energy package input? V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has often referred to the EEA agreement as a fundamental factor in all of this. At the beginning, it was, and it was created here with a contract called a two - sided solution, at the highest level. The minister referred to earlier in his speech. Now we're about to separate the Power Institute with the third energy package and I'm asking: "Where is the recommendation coming from, friendly recommendation on how it works? For which support, e.g. The European energy agency? Are we not walking a little bit toward the third foundation with all this induction process? I'm waiting for the highest. Secretary of state, please answer me again. That doesn't have to be far. What is the natural purpose of the implementation of all these energy packages in Member States and EEA countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u37	A respectable president. On the average, we take a total of 4,400,500 in Icelandic legislation through the EEA community service each year. The objective is to have a common market here, and that's what we're looking for. That's everybody's interests, but especially small parties, because if we play the same games in the big market, our company has a chance to compete. [[Up front.]] The energy has been there since the beginning, and if we just take this third pack of energy, consumer protection would be the most obvious issue, i.e. to strengthen consumers in that market. That's the short answer. The big picture turns to the fact that we're maintaining the EEA community service. However, we have always - and that's why we have greatly increased our interest - to care for our interests, both in the EEA and elsewhere, but especially in the EEA community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u38	Mr. President. After listening to a talk at the highest. Ministers, I can better understand the nervousness we sense here in the hall by reason of it. Councilmen of the Social Security Party. They've come all empty-handed to play. Even the Minister himself, the highest. A minister, a minister of the matter, has nothing new to offer. He quickly reads old government texts and then adds to his old rabble, which he thought would surely be very clever, though it was full of pure falsehoods, as it has been pointed out, the end which goes out to blame everyone else, that what he is doing is really teaching everyone else besides him. Then there's David Cameron's judgmental case of a meeting that has been agreed on to lay a sea cable. On the contrary, it was agreed to look at a song to show that it was not suitable. I'm not going to follow a leash or something. A senator. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's still starting to get nervous, and I understand it. After listening to a minister's talk, I understand the tendency of some here to react by laughing awkwardly. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to try to protect the minister from too difficult questions and hope that he will rely on him to answer without his traditional error. [[The president calls.]] I simply want to ask the highest. Minister: Why does he want to introduce this energy package? [[The president calls.]] What are the benefits? And second of all, why doesn't he want to discuss the matter again on the same EEA committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u39	The president would like to ask the speakers, all of them, to keep their time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u40	A respectable president. This is a turning point, for it is a turning point. paritaprevir Over here, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson explains that he set up a team - and anyone can talk to his uncle Google and have a press report about that team - to prepare the sea cable to fix it and look at it because he didn't want it at all. This has never been done in history, it is a historic milestone. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And speaking of falsehood, a respectable president, I think. A senator should look closer. A person would be more sensitive if he accepted the idea of having been very interested in laying a sea cable. Everybody knew that. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator meets Britain's prime minister and sets up a team of workers to look at the sea cables, and he claims that this was because he was not interested in it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. There's no way to add anything to this. For the questions asked, they have been given much warning. A senator knows that. [[The president calls.]] But he also needs to consider how he will work out his own story. [[The president calls.]] There's something that doesn't work out at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u41	Mr. President. I hear I'm still such a big thinker. Minister that he does not trust to answer one single question, he continues, I think it can be called only by his obsession with me, and continues with his strange story explanation. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] As it turned out after this multiannual meeting, as it happened then, and I declared in the press and in the announcement, I had serious doubts about the fact that it was right, thinking that an opinion would reveal it. Anyway, hey. A senator does not seem to make contact with reality, even when it is published in formal announcements, not in this case, as when the European Union itself reports in a press release that it is going into a lawsuit with one of the Union's states for not implementing the package in the way we have been warned. I'm just gonna reiterate my first question and that's what I'm gonna do. Minister, he needs to express himself more about me, to do it only on Facebook and elsewhere. He does so in many places. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate the question, "Why do you want the highest? " The Minister of Foreign Minister Þór Þórðarson introduces the third energy package? [[The president calls.]] What are the advantages of this and why can't we discuss this again on the joint EEA committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u42	A respectable president. In time, I joined the majority of the nation who are obsessed with Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, in his opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u43	Long time no see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u44	Of course. We're all there. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. Senator, you've figured it out, it's all on you, it's all on you. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The third pack of energy is a sidebar, it's all about what it's about. Senator, we're all obsessed with you and all we can think about is you. [[Up front.]] Exactly. You saw this. Hv. Senator, there is an entire chapter on the question and answer to the Department of State. Here I gave a long talk that I cannot reexamine when I presented this matter. I can't go through it in one minute, depending on the question this was raised with. In case of a moment. After all this discussion, there is nothing I can do about the evidence. He may disagree, but claiming that they have not been identified is the least that is said to be unique.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u45	Mr. President. Here we are again and new - and have we changed? The short answer, of course, is no, except for our viewpoints that want to accept it. On August 19, I recall, Professor Stefánsson Már and Professor Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, set up with a lawyer for the Department of Foreign Affairs. They published after him the following statement, with permission: ▪ As we have observed at a meeting of the European State Department of State today, we believe it is important that Iceland's defences, recording and implementation of the EEA Types under the decision made by the European Commission on May 5, 2017, are clearly implemented, i.e. forewords on the Constitution and the management of Iceland at the turn of a cable. If the available documents are read together, i.e. The Council of State Ministers and Parliamentary Reunion proposals for travel, industrial and innovation, as well as for the legislature of the latter, in addition to reports and other evidence, we feel that the warnings are properly held there. It is not overhistory that the opinion of these two scholars was the leading part of the Central Party's filancy in spring when efforts were made to question the facts. In fact, many of us believe that these warnings are unnecessary, but if they are to ease the fears of government opposers and, of course, of course, of the common people of the country, they serve good purposes. It would be unsettled to review this discussion from beginning to end. She has been given much publicity in the media and in community media, and she has developed a keen interest in the people, who, of course, are the best. However, there have been many big words that have failed, and the situation has been divisive in the nation. What may be special about this issue is that one of the greatest topics has been discussed about what is absolutely nothing in these packages. However, it is noteworthy that those who have expressed themselves, at least Most, on and off, agree on a few things, first of all that resources are national property, secondly, that they should protect Icelandic energy resources, thirdly that the public should enjoy the resources, fourthly that the use of the resources should be based on sustainable development, and fifth, it is normal for enterprises now owned by public property and use large amounts of our resources to remain there. I'm glad it's at least had at least a good time. Creates a transnational reconciliation as many of us, including We in the United States have claimed our claim. However, this brings to mind the need to take the next steps to make sure that the resources are covered in any doubt. Of course, this is done best by ensuring a constitution of resources as well as by requiring, for example. Following this discussion, to ensure the exposition that exactly explains how the Council is permitted to participate in the necessary international cooperation. In fact, I find that in view of this, those who have been most aggressive in combating this matter during the council have also struggled against the change in constitution. But a good discussion of this matter is essential, and I do not minimize the public's concerns, and approaching it with respect is a spontaneous courtesy. On the other hand, the requirement must also be made that members of Congress do not agree. Some of the things that have been discussed here will have no effect in Iceland because we are not directly linked to a European electricity market with any strings. What affects us, however, is important to us. to demand the owner's separation of transport companies, more detailed regulations for the independence of the electrical monitoring and increased demand for consumer protection and information. This and many other details are outlined in the majority wing of the foreign committee. Mr. President. In this context of all things, I think it would be good to quote only the words of Hilmar Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, of the attorney, of the energy specialist, by permission of a president: ▪ What is not in the third energy package: It is not to be decided on sea cables, not to make a decision to turn power over to ACER; it is not to decide that non-U.S. government can make decisions on energy issues or control of Iceland's energy resources; it is not a decision to sell power or personal power company; it is not to violate a constitution; there is not a set of regulations that will lead to greater power prices; nor will it be necessary to force a cable. So many were words. In fact, Hilmar got out of the house by saying that he thought it would be a little harder for Iceland to put a cable with an approved energy package. Many other experts have also encountered the committee and have said that concern is unnecessary for matters relating to violations of the law, illegal exposition, marine law, and so forth. It is enough to include Skúli Magnússon, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Margrét Einarsdóttir, and Bjarni Má Magnússon. In fact, most people, if not all, who have expressed themselves acknowledge that we do not lose control over the resources and cannot be forced to put a bead cable but still continue to question that it will be, despite all the probable results and everything goes on in a time of hope. Of course, developing fear and suspicion is a well - known and effective method, but it does not do anything more important to her. Iceland made many adjustments because of local conditions at the time, and others did not. The decision made by the joint EEA shall be made on the basis of conditions and adaptations. It's even relevant. natural gas, but also received an exception from the regulations for separating transport systems from other systems of electricity markets. It is also allowed to apply for expanded access from provisions for the separation of distribution companies, access to transport and distribution systems, market openings and mutual support if the Icelandic government can demonstrate a problem with operating electrical systems. More important, two support adjustments due to ACER authority were negotiated in connection with the Rapporteur's conflict on energy transport across borders. However, some of those who believe that this is a time to apply for further enforcation, refusing to introduce these actions as ministers at a time when the matter was discussed and prepared and must just face themselves and that. I'm not saying it at all, and I'm convinced that it was neither reckless nor complacency but completely aware of that point. Many newspaper articles give evidence of this. In addition, the aim is to refer the case to the joint EU committee simply to delirium, as many have observed before the Commission. We'll always be looking to the timeline, what we've done in the early stages when Iceland's demand is determined and our story may not be in our best interests in this matter. So I have a feeling that the purpose of those who are becoming more aggressive against the induction is primarily to try to undermine the EEA treaties and international cooperation. I'm not afraid of the discussion. True, the world is changing, and we must always be on guard and guard our interests as we shoulder common responsibilities. But, first of all, I assure you, the EEA contract is one of the biggest success steps we've ever taken. We turned into 500 million markets. He has created growth and work, defending rights and interests, security, protecting our environment, and investing in the future. We have gained the freedom to travel, live, study, and work anywhere in Europe. Our lives have been enriched by this contract. The horizon has grown, and society is getting stronger. This free movement has also led to a flexible workforce, and statistics show black in white to foreign employees who have come here after a collapse to play a significant role in our success. Second, we face huge international challenges because of poverty, war, and disaster. There is no way to overcome this problem unless you have a lot of international cooperation. In addition, we are in the midst of a digital technology revolution that has nothing to do with failures or borders to the same extent that the world is simply changing. We cannot be happy because this issue is used for political purposes to dust people's eyes. A debatable fact, half truth, even falsehood, must be resisted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for this speech. He spoke about half-truth, and I'd like to ask if there's a half-truth at times. in choosing a candidate to give a witness. I noticed why. The senator did not refer to the words of Eyjólfur, the Ármannsson of Arnar Þór Jónsson, a district judge who has appeared here and spoke in any other way, as more have done, than the two or three members of a gang. A senator mentioned the matter. The question is, what? Senator: Is this some kind of truth? I want to pray. A senator to accompany me on what it was that Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson brought a boob into a meeting with the State Department of State, warning of a man - made journey. Wait a minute. A senator explaining to me and to others whether his words and the words of the Stefán Már and Friðrik Furks of the Árni were best handled on the two committees, whether the 102th par. The agreement that opinions are not relevant to the joint committee or whether we should not be put to the test. A senator didn't trust the EEA deal, not all that we middle-class people do. We trust the EEA deal, not just 0 to 100, but e.g. 102, too. That's what I want to do. A senator will only cross with us. Besides, I would be grateful to the senator for pointing out when me and the middle class were playing in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u47	Mr. President. First about the latter, of course, I was talking about a general discussion in the country. I'm not going to go into it here who was using half-truth, who used deception, and what was a complete lie. On the other hand, I did not choose the opinions of the Ministry. But I have listened to all of them, and there is no half - truths involved in listening to language and then taking sides with the most convincing arguments, especially when much more of those who express themselves use them. However, it is only a matter of fact to resort to a single opinion and to cite a single word for opinion and then to disagree with the conclusion. Then beat your head against a rock, even if the individuals did so with a very clear statement, continuing to insist on it and using it for their basic language. I wasn't at a meeting of the State Department when Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson appeared to the committee. However, I have read a number of his words. As far as his opinion is concerned, this is to be sent to the EEA joint committee, I take more than that, for example, The comments of Baudenbacher, which appeared to the committee, shed light on both the political aspect of the case and also on the legal side. He pointed out, from his long experience as Judge, the timeline, how Iceland had handled its case before the commission, and what would happen if Iceland came many years later with all other demands, that it would be looked upon, and would not be the point of strengthening our cause. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u48	Mr. President. Hv. A senator seems to have chosen to misunderstand what I asked him about because he himself chose to give a few opinions and not to others. He claims to have read a lot about what Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson had to say. I'll have to ask you what. A senator whether he has read a memo that he had with him at a meeting of the State Department. A senator did not sit. That reading might open your eyes wide open. A senator for a number of things, but he is now open. It is not a general custom at the National Assembly of Iceland to give a witness to something in general downtown discussions, making it a practice to reason with those sitting here and with whom they have been meant to say or teach. I don't quite understand what the senator is doing with it. However, I would like to ask the senator one key question: What is the advantage of the Icelanders by recording the third energy package? What does it involve? What is it that makes it necessary for us to pick up an energy package of three in Icelandic legislation? Now I'm going to point out that the most widely quoted scholars are here. Also, a senator has made it, and not that incorruption, these are men, chose to say that the first and correct step is to send the matter to the joint EU committee. It was their first way. The government took the second best route. Then I must ask myself, " Have what? ' A senator did not consider these fine scholars to be ready to listen to this counsel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u49	Mr. President. I have listened to their language, and I have read their report. I have also had the opportunity to listen to other scholars who, of course, have come to an open - minded viewpoint. A senator may work after himself, that you weigh and weigh quite cold arguments with and against. I took seriously the Baudenbacher's words that it could lead to much uncertainty, both legal but also political uncertainty, if we went that way. What's the benefit of Iceland from bringing in this energy package? This single induction will never be removed from the overall agreement that we have made and has been for our advantage in the past 25 years. We need to look at this whole thing. Some things are very useful to us. There are some things that don't matter to us. There are some things we might do with a dog's head while it's not harmful for Iceland. But we can't make this big deal like we're picking pieces from a box of chocolate at a bar mitzvah and just picking out what we like best. This is no different from when you decide to start living with another person, to start a family, to attack an investment in your home, and to have children. We can't choose just to share the bedroom, show up for dinner, and go to prom with the wife, and then refuse to take it off and iron. There has to be some kind of agreement on how people share responsibility and most of them marry just to increase their sovereignty, increase their freedom, increase their chances of having a meaningful life, and that's why we're in the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u50	Mr. President. We now spend two days working with members of Congress to add well over another hundred hours of repetition through the third energy package. All right, well, that's been arranged for a time-out, because I've seen a lot of this middle party's presentation as a show. But the serious part of it is that I feel that it testifies to a certain height against democracy and against the council, something we've never seen before, and I suppose we'll never see again. Our time and all the hours of conversation by the Middle Class - the contingency of the country, however defective it may be, is precious and should not be some kind of a stage of absurdity. It's certainly normal for us at council to find out a lot of things but society and what I call ethical values require efficiency and respect for the work and communication rules we've agreed on. Then the question is, Has anything new appeared? People compete here to say: "No, there's not much, perhaps nothing that has actually been shown to change our attitude toward the third energy package. I agree with that. I don't see it. But an agreement for a short summer council stands, signed by all participants. So here I stand, and that's all I can do. Mr. President. Once again, I turn to the affairs of the third energy package, facts that have been turned out, in my opinion, often and often, or overlooked. Instead, the contents of the third energy package are often unfounded or unconvinced statements as well as the effects of the third energy package. There are prophecies and related derivatives. I mentioned an earlier lawsuit against Belgium. Its contents have nothing to do with what we're discussing here, and they're clean and smart. The European Union ◯ stands on the face of some piece of paper that I saw. What is it? With a large staff, a European Energy Union. This is all framed into high-risk issues, non-human Iceland and international authority scenarios and the end of the Icelandic government of energy resources, even other water rights. I'm equal to the Sovereign of the state's watch as the control of society over the resources of the country, and I'm building it on facts and realities. In a few words, I'm going to review like eight things that we received, i.e. Which the Central Party and his allies in energy, Our Orcs, scatter among men. You will start by saying that energy prices are rising in the wake of all the energy packages. If it's abnormally elevated, I say, which is actually controversial with the first and second energy package -- then I'm talking about for decades - it's the fact that it's not included in the third energy package. There are no prices involved, for it is determined by national competition, certainly under the supervision of consumer rights. This is the improved consumer right and more intensive monitoring of the energy package. A cable rises energy prices - and it will, of course, come, you know that. That is absolutely irreverent in the words of these fine men. He'll come. Of course, there are equipment for whether or how much electrical prices could be raised if a cable came. In Norway, energy prices swing from season to season, and the fact is that Iceland and Norway are almost in the same place these days with energy prices. I think it's simply because people are being intimidated by deception. There are people who believe that energy prices will rise almost the day after the third energy package is approved. But it won't, I think, at least I don't. Marketingisation - it consisted of the first and second energy package, but the third does not promote it. The Marketing is here. It depends on the first and second energy package I listed and on our European cooperation or the EEA agreements as such. But a third pack of energy is not involved, so it is an illusion. Power security is compromised - this is said to occur with the third energy pack. If there were such security because of a cable that is more than controversial, there is no cable here. Our energy security is not compromised. Let us say that the cable will come, as these fine people say: Yes, yes, it may be said that they may be in danger. Could be. Yet, putting forth this effort is another lie. Natural protection at risk with the third energy pack - the third energy package does not weigh any Icelandic environmental principle, let alone the fourth stage of the framework, strategy, the peace-lighting of water and high temperature areas, etc. Or what should we say about the new law on the assessment of environmental impacts in progress? It is not possible that the third energy package will go to the head of Icelandic protection. The Commission of Energy Resources - according to the EEA Convention, Iceland has the full resources of all aspects of energy processing and transport. It's in him. It's another one of those deceptions. Energy legislation in the EEA is causing us damage - we don't take foreign energy laws, we don't. We're gonna lose an Icelandic energy law. Activates, transports, and energy sales are under Icelandic law, the adjusted rules that the EEA has certainly brought us, but it has in a way that does not conflict with our main interests. That's why we've been accepting these energy packets, actually, adapting. There were some adjustments in the third energy package. I'm saying we're not harming ourselves. We're not connected to the mainland, and we're not harming ourselves. And a cable cannot be rejected - that is a statement that does not resist international law or domestic law. There are no cases of forced energy production or forced transport systems across EU borders. I've published this a thousand times. Humans cannot bring anything. There is, of course, two-and-three-sided agreements between countries on energy sales, but there is certainly a monitoring of these agreements. That's where ACER comes in. So does the transpiration process, 100% for us, and also for the rest of it. Everything else is a delusion. If you think you can cross the 12 miles of land without any advantages if this is the case, and if you think an international agreement like the EEA deal would top the ocean contract, they're out driving. Many of us would like to maintain energy production and efficiency in this country. We want to maintain control and do it because of climate change, by sustainable nature, due to growth in rapidly growing society, because of interest in food-rich things, so that I name something, due to energy exchanges, innovations, but we oppose this cheap democracies and plutonium that I have witnessed and is the opposite of active mass democracy, the opposite of equality, and the balance, and the civil Congress that we therefore choose as a capitalistic society in which we live. The community is to have the most important resources and their practicality. The market must not be on top of it. The EEA deal is practical for us if we can, like so far, in the main order of tailoring off unbecoming sides -- with a dog's head, like a dog's head. The above expression was made by a senator. We will expand our work and work at a joint corporation government to maintain social control in the main areas of society. Because more and more politicians are aware of this, the Central Party and the Class of the People are in much less part here at the General Assembly. I'm convinced, in fact, that many who are concerned about the third energy package will soon experience that reality is not what people are sounding. [[The president calls.]] For the long future, no one in a democracies society will be able to secure itself against wrong decisions, laws, or political changes. But it's possible here and now in Iceland with groups of cooperation, and that's what we're facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u51	A respectable president. I have come here for this discussion and look forward to hearing convincing statements about the pros and cons of the third energy package, which is where I ask for accuracy. In a speech or two. A senator was talking about prices, and I miss the discussion explaining why energy prices would increase or decrease. Now I've checked -- spent, e.g. Last night in it -- what's called auction zones and ▪megraph or priority of energy entering the energy market, how Nord Pool works, and was divided into prices etc. But I would like to hear the explanation and the accuracy of how the system works then, either in the direction of a decrease or an increase in a price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u52	I can't figure it out, Mr. President, do you have any questions about energy prices in other countries besides here? I'll just have to answer that, of course, the amount of electronic prices in this country is about the transport fee, i.e. the tax, and then the price for every kilowatt, megahours, in case of a major industry. Prices in the major industry will be carried out on contracts where we have achieved relatively good results now in all our last contracts. The main focus for consumers is the competition of these very few, not just five retailers, we can call them. How that happens, I can't answer that I don't know how to explain how the competition works. But this, at least, is the price form itself. In Norway, however, this depends on Europe's supply and demand for integration and the position of a national power market in Norway, which includes It's very important to see if the floors are half full or half full, and so on. [[The president calls.]] There are literally annual changes in electrical prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u53	A respectable president. I understand people's concerns very well because it's been taken back and forth with the value of electrical energy coming up or the goal is to level electricity prices across Europe or, as they say since then, that the policy is to lower it. I hear three views here and there, e.g. in the expert report recently published by our Energy. This is said to be three: down policy, increase energy prices, and increase energy prices. I'm a little lost when I hear such conflicting messages. I think I have a good understanding of how this auction market works and how the system that it works. But I would like to hear it first from the government so that I can compare it with it, simply calling out to see how this system works and introduce it to us so that we can start that discussion from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u54	Mr. President. It's nice to be in control. I had not completely realized that I was in control but was fine. It is divided into the legislature and is implemented in this case which should be available for reply. Of course, all of us, of course, would like to know that there is probably a parapolitic union, that reduces electrical energy prices to public users in Iceland. There is a complaint that it is too high, and for this, it is undoubtedly a fly foot and more than that. Then we'll find ways to do it. But that third pack of energy goes the other way, I think it's weird. I've looked at the evidence of European energy prices. Denmark and Holland are very high, we are in the middle, and then they come for example. Eastern European countries with very low energy prices, much lower than Iceland. Of course, it's about the power of money. Energy prices in each country depend on pay and so forth, so it is not surprising that many of the 28 countries in the European Union are well below us in energy prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There were three things I especially noticed in this talk. Senator. It was false, controversial, and purportists, and it was supposed to be with members of the Middle Party, I understood it that way. Hv. A senator speaks of being intimidated by deception. I often covered it with this subject as to what the experience of a pack of energy alone and two was. Must have to look at the experience of a energy pack one, huh? A senator, in accordance with a pack of three and four energy, needs to be examined. And what is the experience? Power up. It increased by 10% immediately at the time of induction 2003, and then, when taken today as an actual value, it has increased by 7◯8%. In certain cold areas, the build - up power of electricity to house - warm places increased by up to 74◯90%, e.g. Senator. Who's being fooled? [[The president calls.]] Is this a good experience with an energy pack of one and two, croaks? Senator? Well, maybe. A senator will answer that question. ?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u56	Mr. President. We'll discuss a pack of three energy here, and now we'll discuss an energy package one and two, too. It seems very popular. It may well be, and I don't have a problem with it, because, apparently, my group against these energy bags at the time, was rising energy after the first and second energy packets, probably because of the increased cost of these enterprises breaking apart, etc. I don't know that story, the cause itself, but I do know that electronic prices have been made in Iceland, e.g. has done so, as it turns out that energy prices in Iceland have not been raised abnormally, that may be what matters to us. In cold areas, this case is cold. A member of the council referred to Southnes, which was in force in certain cold areas on the Southnes'terms for an agreement between HS Power and several parties. It certainly had to be done away with. In general, however, high levels of energy prices are not appropriate in cold areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u57	Mr. President. Here's what we'll do. A senator guilty of just the same thing he was talking about earlier, using deception. House - to - house electricity prices have gone up all over the country because of a pack of energy. It's a fact, my ass. Senator. [[Take it up: wrong.]] This is a fact. Hv. A senator says we don't hold foreign energy laws. I guess we do. We created an energy package one and two. We split energy companies, which resulted in cost to consumers. Does that mean we don't consider foreign legislation to be the case? I guess we are. Hv. A senator is here at the hands of deception that he accuses of using. It would be good to have the answer from what source. A senator here and now: Why did the left movement be offered against a energy package one and two, but support a pack of three?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u58	Mr. President. Deception is about creating facts that do not exist, of which I can mention a number of cases in the case of the Middle Class. I mentioned one thing that's really fun, that's when they thought it was a place of Power under the ACER, that's what it was in a man's language here earlier. But well, we in the left green had some doubts about the first and second energy package because of this separation and this market area. Then comes the third energy pack. It's completely different. There is nothing in it, as we feel, with the equipment in this case now, which makes us obligated to do so, because we had criticized the first and second energy package, to be against the third, perhaps the fourth, who, for the most part, will probably be about green energy. But that I have used deception, every man must judge himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. I'm going to turn the order of things around in the light of the previous answer as well. The senator got here first. I believe that to the public in the country and to the companies it doesn't matter how much electricity costs and transport costs develop. It's the total cost that matters. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: If prices were to be raised to homes and companies, apart from industry, that is contractual, due to the introduction of the third energy package, would that affect the senator's position on the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u60	Mr. President. I wondered about this question, and I need to repeat it: If a third energy package would result in an increase in electricity prices in Iceland, would I be against it? I could be against him for all kinds of things that aren't in him. But now it is, whether it's this pack of energy or anyone else, that it has fixed its contents, and I know, and I'm convinced that they're not in this requested package. I'm going to answer it. A senator so that I would like to see all the equipment in the third energy package before I answer yes or no if I'd be against the third energy package if it were to fuel up. I don't like electricity surges. I'm against them, but I can sometimes admit that they're necessary if there's some reasonable reason for them. But this question is so strange that I think I must allow this answer to stand and ask it a new question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u61	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Since time is running out, I'm not going to go through a routine, we'll have this in the tunnel some other time. The second thing I'd like to ask you is why. A senator is about whether he appreciates it as if - now he has made a good impression on the matter - that the induction of the third energy package has a secondary impact on any other law of law, or that the rights of an enterprise or individual can be based on other legislation other than the third energy package solely, whether the third energy package could have such an effect. In particular, I refer to the views involved in building damage requirements on the basis of the four principles of freedom, governments in later stages violate the goals of the third energy package, e.g. by putting a stone in the street of a sea cable as a foreign party might be interested in parking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u62	Mr. President. Whether the third energy pack has any secondary effects on other legislation? I could imagine that the energy monitoring in Iceland in general would need to be strengthened if it was to be an active competition. It may, therefore, affect that way. With regard to the cable, the answer is simply no. It is fundamental to understand that the four freedoms of the land or of the sovereign state are forced to eliminate their resources in some special way because the cable has no significance unless it has electricity. To link four freedoms with a cable simply cannot be made. And more importantly, the third energy pack is about that ACER, in the case of our ESA, if we were connected, would monitor the agreements we would make, e.g. in Britain [[The president calls.]] It's a patrol, it's not a party, and there's nothing in the European Union to top it up. This is not a partner involved in activation or transport, either within the country or outside, unless it is a violation of two sovereigns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u63	A respectable president. I'm going to try to ask you why. A senator, as soon as I thank him for the talk, whom he believes is that the main objective of the European energy policy is and how it is about us and whether it is totally obvious that its objective is exactly what it says, a common internal energy market. Because we're in a pack of three energy. A senator or his party has not been in favor of a pack of energy, and two is bent on asking: A senator saying that the left-hander's position would be the same as it is now if they were in a position of government today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u64	Mr. President. First answer to the last question: I don't think it would matter whether we were in a government position or not with regard to the third energy package. So this shared energy policy. It goes on two fronts, or we'll say three things, and that the state sees energy for others, it is possible, that the transport pathways of this energy are facilitated, and then the proportion of green energy increases slowly and bites. This is the main theme of Europe's energy policy and there is no such thing as the European energy relationship. It's just quiet. I'm not saying that. A senator said so, it's just a quote from our Power. Similarly, common energy and gas sources or other resources may be considered. The four freedoms are not based on forced forwards on resources, forced forwards on goods, or forced connections. It's fake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In fact, it's what's wondering about me now, what I think is a great change of mind. I had previously viewed the left green as a great provincialist, and that is basically what I'm thinking about and in this case. What do you think? A senator assumes that we will enter a joint energy market in Europe? Then I'm not talking about now with the third energy package. I've never wondered whether we're a sovereign state, and I should make decisions about fixing a cable or anything else. However, there has always been a question of who can hinder it. Is it lawful for the Icelandic government to interfere with market competition and to deny parties who want to make goods? Is it permitted to do so in the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u66	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's concern for the left green, I had not thought that she was anything particularly great. But what we are talking about is important. I'm just as opposed to sea cables as I am. A senator and in my speech earlier, I explained why and will not repeat it. Of course, we can inhibit competition. Why on earth should we not be able to do that? Suppose we had a sea cable, and we didn't want to activate more high - temperature areas to increase the supply through the cable, would we be inhibiting competition if we were to use national laws to do so in order to keep our production unchanged? Of course not! We are a sovereign state and we have authority on the EEA Treaty over the energy resources. [[The president calls.]] It's in it, right? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u67	A respectable president. I'm going to wait until later on to discuss the matter materially. First, I'd like to discuss the treatment and the recent discussions around this subject. Then I'm going to go into what I think is the main thing we should be discussing here, which is the context of the Republic's constitution. But first, I'd like to talk about national pay. Recently, an appeal has been made to keep a national law on this subject. Recently, Pirata's campaign program suggested a national agreement, which was proposed. Many people thought that they looked bad and were worried about it. I myself believe that decisions should be made, not by what they look like, but by whether they are right or wrong. I can't review all the reasoning that took place on the basis of a good suggestion other than the reasoning I gave against it and would return to it is the one I'm going to move here. Since the beginning, the Pirantars have held to a new constitution. It contains an arrangement for national pay to voters. The requirement is that 10% of voters be able to sign a protest against a law agreed by the General and then go to national law. After the arrival of an organization like our Energy and after the Middle Party's lawsuit throughout the summer and spring and after this case had probably been the most political and controversial case this year, and perhaps the last too, the appeal has simply not been made. Our energy is a very cool organization with its fancy websites, and they well promote their cause, and they have canoes from most of them, if not all classes, have had advertisements on the street and signature collections in the mall - and have been able to collect now, according to my latest sources, $16,000 signatures against the case. Ten percent of Iceland's voters are about 10%. 25,000. The number is very far away from this 10% goal. If a new constitution had been legalized today, the basic conditions needed would not have been met in order to impose this case on national terms. The result of a vote in Pirata that led to this conclusion was that people were concerned that the matter might look a bit antihuman. Instead, we take up now, and I say here, as I said in the argument, to receive the signatures of 10% voters, the Piranians will propose a national bill on this case as well as others, according to the limitations found in the bill to a new constitution. In fact, there is in these spoken words a proposal in the Pirata election system and a vote begins about it in a few days. Then it'll just be part of the political process with the Pirates. If someone in the community wants to get national law on a particular matter, there is no need to argue with Pirata's members on Facebook and not attend Pirata's social conference, simply collecting the signatures and showing that it is a real appeal. It surprises me that the collection of signatures in this case has not been any better than what has come to the attention of the call on our energy website, is shown in the media by the spoken language of certain selected canoes, and is seen in newspaper articles, but is not seen in collection of signatures and not in protests in the East, which some of us have considerable experience in watching. So we need to ask: Will we keep a national fee when someone proposes it? Or when some poll shows that more is involved than just a matter? When do we have a national law? There's an excellent tour of the fine plate bill for the new constitution. When 10% of voters are demanding national votes it should be held and then the Piranians will make such a proposal and support it in action. Of course, this should be part of the procedure itself, not one-rate policy, but hopefully we'll be having a discussion on the topic of the constitution later on. I wanted to throw it up because this case has not only raised questions about the subject of the matter but also questions about the matter. Why is this hurry? What is the role of the people and voters in making decisions in this town? It is vital that we be clear about how we will conduct it. It is not enough to place some political ideas on what to pay nationally. One down. A member of the General Assembly today suggested that it be at the time to keep the national bill for insurance. I couldn't help but tell him he'd get a few things. So, shall we make a national bill? Hardly. No, we're supposed to do that by some clear sign. Pears will do so according to the previews that will be found in a new constitution. It's as if it's nothing more to say about the national payment, but I still thought it was important to keep this up, not only because when you call on national pay, we're going to take the conversation about how we're going to make our national pay. They matter - how we make decisions. It matters how the Council reacts when it is called by voters to keep a national hearing on certain matters. So all I'm saying is to our Energy, to the Central Party and to everyone else who's interested in bringing this matter to the people, let's help collect the signatures. It's actually a very little time left now but it's been a very long time so far. Then I shall personally submit the adjustment proposals I have ready for my computer on this particular case. It would be this way: There are four forms of change, one for each body of Congress, in which every court code is set up to take effect in the National Remuneration Act. Thus, that national agreement would be binding. I have this on my computer right now. I can make this clear today if it is only shown that the calls are in accordance with the conditions set in the bill for new constitutions. I expect this will soon be the official policy of the party. But what I find is also more important to talk about than just a few aspects of the subject. Senators have been carvening around here earlier today is the context of the general constitution. You may think, though, that some things are said on this matter that are not right when you consider the matter, however, the anxiety may be legitimate and understandable. People are worried that with a pack of three energy, they are giving up ownership of resources, rights to use, or something like that. It's not right and it's all good. People are worried that this is not a constitution. That's not right, but all right, maybe we're understandably worried. People are concerned that this will hand over too much power from the government of Iceland. That's not right, but okay. All these opinions have to do with a new constitution. The reason people should be concerned about these things is not that we have a three - pack energy package, but that we do not yet have the weight to establish a new constitution where these values are addressed, such as national resources. That is an decades - old subject that everyone should generally agree on today. It has a new constitution, and if it was legal, nothing would have to reason on it. In terms of Constitutional harmony, the new constitution of a procedure is to ensure it with a so-called law, which is applied as part of the procedure itself, not by letters to scholars in town, but as part of the procedure of procedure itself. That's good. Regarding the exposition, probably one of the most misunderstood regulations in the new constitution or constitution in general, it is said that there is a possibility of overpowering power. How do we know that? Well, not by reading the current constitution, it's silent as the grave for it. Hence, the exposé is always at the point where this scholar is opposed to the other scholar and the senators somehow have to decide which scholar they believe better or believe more clearly. There is no formal way to determine or treat an exposition of power. Of course, there should be a requirement in the constitution to set up a line, not to open the way for any endless display of power, but to bring it up, so that there is a line, to be tailored over the subject, and for the democratic safety Adventists to the kind of power we are handing over, how long, with what conditions, and how we would take it back. It's all in a new constitution. I don't know anything in this discussion that should be moving to the public that has little more to do with a discussion of the good stuff. As I say, I hope to share in a material discussion afterward on what has been discussed in the past day. I look forward to it, and we'll see if time will last. On Monday we'll vote on this matter. I expect it to be over. After that, I suggest that rather than keep muttering whether this or the other is in the accessories of a pack of three or four, we begin to talk about what is clearly the most important thing here and that is the new Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It is refreshing to have that friend brought in. I'd like to go to the previous round, ask a few questions about the number of people on the signing list, and then these ideas about 10% of the voters in this country. I'd like to begin by saying that I'm not surprised that my energy and those who were saying that the collection of signatures is tremendously organized and clearly well - equipped or financed. What I'm wondering is, in view of the way the debate on this subject has developed. A senator believes that there are many that are sufficient or that there are limits or rules, some requirements for the presentation of such a request is performed, i.e. The expression. I now see to it that the request for national pay on this particular matter is put forth with reference to the number of exposés and false claims that have developed. Are we going to talk about national pay? [[The president calls.]] Who decides exactly what to do with it and how to do the best. A senator? Who decides the wording of such a national law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u69	A respectable president. It is restricted in the bill on a new constitution, and our policy would then be that these limitations would apply as well. They are e.g. that the matter is of public interest, that can't be about civil rights, and that can't be about the budget and that. However, in terms of a presentation in the language, what I understand about the subject. A senator is asking about the subject, but I can see that it would be done according to the rules of the presiding committee that she has put on a presentation on matters for national pay. They exist and are set up by the Presidency Committee at the moment. The adjustments I had made, in case the band wanted to go to national law on this matter, assume that a presentation would be based on them. To answer literally, however, the question is simply: Here are the issues adopted by the Council. Should they be approved or not? Yes or no? The exact presentation of that is a bigger stratosphere. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come to that in a later answer. However, this is a matter of concern, in fact, primarily for the advice of a national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u70	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the counterweight. This is a discussion that will call for a bigger stage and more time, and hopefully it'll get there sooner than later. It's the idea of the night. A senator makes clear, however, that a national agreement will take place on a certain issue that has been resolved from here so that there will not be a tendency for wording or such. Good, then I get it right. Then I wonder more than a question. As desirable as a new constitution is, at least many of its provisions, e.g. With regard to our natural resources, the holding, I am not as optimistic as it sounds to me. A senator makes sure that there will be an end to scholarly hairs on interpretations of various subjects. In the sense of this statement, there is something that will be successful before a national hearing comes. I don't exactly have a question, but the details are well-subjectized.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u71	A respectable president. The problem. In my opinion, a senator makes a much larger point. And in fact, the big thing is the advice of a national law check that sounds more like a poll, e.g. if we would simply ask: Should an energy package of three or not be approved? Or as has been asked in the polls: "Do you favor or favor more resources? These are not questions that are useful for votes at the Senate Hall. In the foundation, a national agreement must always have the same potential as we have in a Senate hall, i.e. yes or no we officially published clear data, conclusions and suggestions. It's in my opinion that this thing that went so terribly wrong with Bgret. There was a adviser of national agreements without a vision of the exactness of approval or rejection. And then there's a deal, and then there's all the transfers left. This is the danger of consulting national regulations, and that's why I care so much about being binding. It is also easy to do so if it is just a matter of decision. For some reason, the General general Assembly has been very afraid of binding national incomes. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, I don't have any more time to go into scholars' hairs hairs, but I'd like to say, "It's better if we don't have everything under them, that's okay if they're taken into account. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the discussion of the new constitution. It might have been better for us to have spent our last 136th hours discussing some big business, such as the Constitution than the third energy package. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator, perhaps only in the second answer to an answer, about national pay. In general, I've been pretty much against them, but just so I'm holding them as a frame. Hv. A senator named the core when it comes to questions in a national law. Despite not listening to all the talks that have been delivered through the third energy package, much of which I still don't understand what, for example. Yeah. The members of the Central Party are asking. We might ask the people: Should we accept or refuse the third energy package here at the General Assembly? And then what? Is there nothing more that the people should know? What does it mean if we say no? Should he go back into the EEA committee and negotiate what? An exception to the ACER that we still have written into the Senate didn't exist? [[The president calls.]] What is it we really want? What would we ask in a national law on such a matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u73	A respectable president. Once the matter has been given this much discussion and work at the council and a lot of discussions in society, it is clear what will happen if the case is rejected. If the voters rejected the case on national terms, it would be exactly the same as if the Senate voted against the case itself. And also if the national vote was to result in the yes, it would be equivalent to a greater proportion of members of Congress having voted for it. That's the only difference, i.e. any person would say yes or no. There is no other difference in the treatment unless it is expected that this will become part of the legislation. Then the U.S. National Order would come after the approval of the Council. There would be no need for such action as at that stage, unless it is agreed by the Generals. However, the difference of e.g. This and that we know exactly what's going to happen now. There are uncertainty factors, but we know who they are. The national agreement on Bgret was held that the British voters would accept the case, it was never expected a no, that voters would reject involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] That's why all the drifter comes out of it. What they should have done - I have to come to that second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u74	A respectable president. That is exactly what happened. A senator came along: What happens if we say no to the third energy package? The answers we've been given at the moment. The Foreign Affairs Committee and our leading experts are: It's uncertain. There's nothing we can say about it for sure. We'll have to know what we want next. We want to make a deal out of IV. The appendix, or do we just want to get out of the deal like that? Or do we just want to stop there, just have the legislation, like it's after the first and second energy package, and then just say no to the next step? These questions have not been answered during the 138 hours in which the matter has been discussed and cannot be seen at all as to what the opposite will is. I'd like to add the questions because of why. A senator entered the legitimate concern of the public. I agree with that. Yet, there is one very good thing about the last issue of the third energy package, which is the big debate about energy, energy resources, and how important this is to us. Of course, it is filled with concerns and questions we need to answer. My question is, feel it. A minister morally acceptable the concern of the general public, and many of the principal scholars and in the handling of the council have been answered here by force of shock. Councilmen who are supposed to know better? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u75	A respectable president. My answer is: No, I don't think it's acceptable. If I'm going to last a while later, maybe I'll go into it a little bit. Nevertheless, as far as I can, I will try to stick to the matter. For and what happens, there is a fundamental difference between the fact that there are some unknown sizes in what happens next a verse not knowing what happens next. We'll know exactly what'll happen if we run here. 102nd and 103nd. The EEA contract will take over. It has never been done before, so there is an adventure. We know, in fact, that we're going to annoy our Uncle Norse very much because it's likely to upset all kinds of plans there. Then they do not know what rules to prepare for. There will be legal uncertainty, no matter what type of rules would come along, so we know that we will make ourselves an ill will there. The expected EEA committee will take account of these discussions and then reimbursed, I presume, it would just have to be after 102rd and 103th. The EEA Convention, which would clearly be the next steps, in contrast to the Bgreit account. [[The president calls.]] There were no next steps. What they should have done - now that I'm back in a time crisis - was making a concierge of breaking up with the European Union, giving her political treatments, and then calling for a national fee. I think the British people would have rejected that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u76	Mr. President. I'm going to take a part in these tests on national pay just because it's true. A senator compares with Bbifit but finds out all the results other than me. Hv. A senator points out that these articles work in the EEA Convention. It is exactly the same as with Baltrexone. There were articles on what to do if some country wanted to go out. Uncertainty was just as he described it earlier. It wasn't about who would be the next step; they were quite light in Bgret. The next step in Bbifit was a negotiation of how to walk out. It's just like here, the next step would be activation in these articles, and then the process would be followed but then the complete uncertainty, just as in Bgret, about what it returned, if over the head of something. Hv. A senator says there are signs of uncertainty here. I know why. A member of Congress that the EEA joint committee would record the case again and the whole country would accept it? I know why. A senator exactly what would be the way out of it? I know why. A senator how this would affect our position within this energy system that we have been part of since 1999? [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator how would this affect our position in the EEA Convention? [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator how would this affect Norway's position within the EEA Convention? I know why. A senator how this would affect the EEA Convention and the European Economic Area and our relationship with the Norwegians and the Swiss there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u77	President wants to point them out. A senator says there are limits to how many questions can be asked in one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u78	A respectable president. There is a fundamental difference between this matter and Bgreit, which is that Bgreit was simply a poll taken by the authorities without having any matter of Congress to accept it. No narratives, no names. The decision was not signed. Besides the fact that this was about making the posetifu decision to resign from the relationship, not by accepting some issue that came from the relationship just the way it is here. This is a case that we're willing to accept or reject according to all procedures, all customs and the EEA contracts. They receive their political treatments, and they get very much discussions, and they get publicity, and they get discussions in the community. And then when we're here for the second round. At the end of this series, there is a vote for the case based on the facts that have already been presented. This was simply not the case in Baltrexit. It cannot be compared for this reason. Besides the circumstances when things are permissive, the question is simply: Do you want this, or do you not? [[The president calls.]] It provides poor guidance for politicians and the whole system on how to react. [[The president calls.]] The flaps around Bfenit are characterised by the fact that although they know what article to use, no discussion has been made about what would happen or how they would organise it, how long it would be without a contract, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u79	President. Let's stop talking about Baltrexit. It's my fault, but stop talking about it, because it has nothing to do with this case. Hv. A senator has said that national requirements must be in order to explain the options. I was trying to get him to explain the choices. And one of the reasons I was linking it to the comments of the man. A senator on Biffit said that these are the uncertainty factors. What's the uncertainty factor, huh? Senator? What are the following steps? Where is uncertainty that the next step can be taken? Where is uncertainty about what steps will take from the next step, etc.? Hv. The senator must have thought of this process to the very end if he proclaimed a national payment, a proposal for a national law on these matters, had already said that national pay is not possible unless the options are completely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u80	A respectable president. I'm not making a national bill on this matter, I haven't. In fact, I recently had the opportunity to vote for it in my company, and I voted against it, reasoned that decision on a rather thorough matter, and I also did so here. I'm against putting this case on national terms. I feel, however, that the voters should have the right to decide for themselves. And I also pointed out that this call I was referring to in my speech has not been heard. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] There has been no request to make the matter a national fee. I think it's a sign that we can trust voters a little better than maybe a little bit. A senator may not make insane decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u81	Don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u82	No, we'll talk about it over a cup of coffee later, OK? Senator. I can't figure out why. A senator exactly what happens in the relationship of Norway and Iceland after we step there only on the toes of those we would certainly do by rejecting this. It is certain that it would return to the Joint EEA Committee. I'm sure we're stepping on the Norwegians. I'm sure they'd be a little irritated with us and not quite sure how we'd make it. [[The president calls.]] I don't know how these things would end, but I know what the dangers are, and I trust completely to have that conversation with voters if they called for a national fee on this or something else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Derfni Gunnarsson for his approach, which I find of natural interest, and especially because I have always considered Pirata to be a very different kind of democracy and trust in the people of the country and voters. I can say that we also have it in common with our people in Floki, and we made adjustments to a council proposal in spring that we could not measure up and that was really enough to say. We have full trust in the nation to make a decision in a national law. The people's party will make adjustments to the council resolution tomorrow, which we had also signed into the council in ours, which shows that instead of being an General who will be making a decision to fix the cable, it will be the people who do so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is he not trustworthy in making that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u84	A respectable president. My answer is yes. I believe that the people are completely trustworthy. I also believe she can be trusted to decide whether or not she wants it for a national fee. Then we'll have to find a career. He has been reasoned for years, and he has been well equipped in a bill for a new constitution. It is the output I believe, that if 10% of the voters want a national bill on a case, I personally, in my own name, submit the motion and act on it, including the national law. Senator. One reason why I don't support it is that I just haven't heard the call. There have been 16,000 signatures on our energy, which are an organization that has worked very hard all year, reaching 16,000, which is in less than 25,000, so I don't see the call. If this claim is restored, I will support its national payment and it will be binding. I don't even think I will support it or contribute to the decision that members of Congress will pay attention to it or not. [[The president calls.]] The people are to decide for themselves. My answer is: " Yes, I trust the people, and I trust them to decide for themselves what they will or will not do in their country. On the other hand, I did not rely on politicians at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I couldn't agree more. A senator that may not be possible based on our legislation, as it is available today, calling for binding dues unless it is specifically handled here. It is in the legislation on this national law that they are stewards. But could we not agree that it was really a very strange government that would not listen to 70% of the people calling for something? I agree with what. A senator, who will be able to support the changes in his constitution, and to my delight, we sit together in that task force. I couldn't agree with you more. But when we're talking about a giant thing, as I think this is when we're talking about a common internal market in Europe's electricity market and that we're taking our energy into the market, which I think we've been able to see quite well up to now, I ask: Is it not the nation to make a decision about what has to do with it for the whole future and is a huge deal, at least To me? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u86	A respectable president. As I've said before, I object that politicians decide what goes on national terms and what they don't do. This is because it will be power for politicians, not for the nation or for the voters. That's why I feel the call to come from there. That's why I want to follow the procedure in the new constitution. I think it's a really nice process. There are some barriers and such to do it well. These are not space sciences that may not be as complex as people think. However, in terms of binding national law, the idea and what we had been prepared for was that if the Party had given us the message that we should keep national law on this, the solution we would choose was to tie it up to the regulations of the bill and the Senate resolutions, the energy packages, so that they would simply not take effect unless we agreed to national law. And in the new proposal, which I'll go over with. A senator will follow if she is interested, is given laws on the execution of national regulations despite the 2nd issue of Article 1. the law that informs them that there is a counselor. [[The president calls.]] I think this route is very legal, but I'll be happy to continue talking about how we can achieve binding national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u87	A respectable president. About which. The head of State for the summer has shown nothing new in this case, and the conference until now has shown nothing new about a pack of three. I must say, for example, that I expected more than the emphasis that the Central Party body laid on keeping the matter alive during the summer so that it could be investigated, examined, and discussed fully. I expected more, as I say, something really new would happen today, but it hasn't. These are the same ones, so to speak. To me, the matter has only become even clearer. It has been shown that it is very well prepared in all places, and in it there is nothing, I repeat nothing, Mr. President, who harmes the national interests in the present or future, on the contrary. The discussion and the fear that something is bad in a pack of three has focused primarily on the following: 1st That this is a expeditation in the power of a foreign agency, ACER. 2. That this is a violation of the constitution. 3. The nation's sovereignty is being walked. 4. Not to turn a cable against the four freedoms of the EEA and make the United States destructive to the United States. 5. That the evidence of warnings given to the Council from the EU energy manager and the EFTA are of no value to the proposed warnings. 6th That we don't have to generate a pack of three, it doesn't matter anyway. 7. That refusal has no political consequences for Iceland to our partners in EFTA and EEA. 8. That by accepting a pack of energy, three Iceland's gaming powers control their energy resources. Mr. President. To make a long story short, the above statements do not hold water. None of them can resist. As we see in the evidence of this review, our best - known and leading experts agree. State Department. In spring, I gave a talk on the subject, as I considered the above points. Few heard this talk, unfortunately, since the fine band of Hatari appeared at the same time in Euroviion. So I'd like to tear down the part of the speech where I'm arguing why we should not send the case back to the joint EES committee, which some have said is the only right way and will have no consequences. The progress of 102 proved to be clear. a. which requires that the State be able to refuse a directive is primarily a security valve, a tool in the contract process of the Committee for State to form a contract. There is a reason why no precedent exists for a state who rejects a decree after state has completed work on the joint committee and agreed on a decision. Doing such a thing would be a misuse of our rights in EFTA. The majority of them are down. These factors are carefully reviewed by the Foreign Affairs Committee. They even gave it to the committee. to Carl Baudenbacher, who explained that within the joint EEA committee, the legal obligation is to the representatives to make an effort to resolve the situation. In Latin, the rule is "prevor constratus. " He said that rejection would no doubt damage the interests of the United States. The EFTA countries must speak with one voice to the EEA and Iceland have a duty to their allies. That rule is called in English, by permission of the President, both of lovety. Our cooperation is based on mutual trust and the close cooperation of nations, and therefore both Liechtenstein and Norway assume that we are intact in our cooperation and are relieved of the administrative notice in a energy pack three that they have already done. So the answer is, Mr. President: The reason we choose to implement the energy market rules is that we are on the inside of Europe's market. The joint EEA committee is then the site where countries can adapt the regulations in their country. Congress has access to that process. The work of the joint committee is not a matter of rejecting rules when adaptation has taken place. Mr. President. There is nothing in a pack of three energy that will therefore lay upon the Icelanders the responsibility to lay a sea cable. Nothing. Quoting the energy package's approach to support, as some have, does not have a legal value. The words in a pack of three energy are consistent with the words of a two energy package that are currently in force, but which some choose to look completely past, which is remarkable in itself. Iceland is an ideal state. That's the perfect key in this case. Dr. Bjarni Már Magnússon, a seafood doctor and professor at the University of Reykjavík, has also written some newspaper articles on the matter. I'm going, with President's permission, to read Dr. Bjarni Már article from July 20th of July. appearing in the core: ▪ In line with 19th - century technology, there was a need to set the rules for transnational sea cables. A International Protocol for Sea Strings was first set in 1884 by an international contract called the European Council for Protection on Rapid News Forces laid under subsavoured in the United States.... They became members of the deal, and thus Iceland became bound by it. The 1982 United Nations Sea rights Convention used the 1884 Convention. The Treaty states that all countries are permitted to place subterranean cables and pathways on the land base and the ocean, in accordance with the specific conditions. So there is considerable freedom in the construction of underwater cables and cables. These rights are usually used by private people in member countries of the marine rights agreement. It's too far to go with these hymns here. In this context, it must be remembered that the legal geologic name is anything but the natural science. This leads to some confusion. The geographic concept in the sense of national rights begins out of the country's territory, i.e. Most of the 12 miles from so - called base lines. Freedom in terms of the fixation of underwater cables and cables on the land base does not take place on land. Four. Ninety-niner. the rights of the Convention specifically states that nothing, in the part of the agreement on land base, affects the rights of the coastal state in order to set the criteria for strings or pipeline that reach land or landways. The territory of the coastal states is almost complete. This is in accordance with the 1884 contract, but this agreement had a monopoly outside the territory of its member countries. All EU Member States (as well as EU itself) are at the UN right agreement. The Treaty states that, in general, the terms of other agreements involving Member States of the marine rights agreement should be in accordance with the marine rights agreement. There is nothing in the EEA Convention or comparable EU legislation which includes the obligation of Member States to allow sea cables to be corrected, as Skúli Magnússon Magnús is well described in their article. Moreover, such obligation is not supported by the greatest international agreement on the sea, the United Nations Sea Treaty, and is not supported by the international order that has been involved since 1884. Iceland's right to set conditions for marine cables that reach Iceland's Iceland land area or land cover is unfavourable, no matter what the third energy package goes. I had a little longer talk, but I see that I don't have much time to finish it. I'd still like to mention the four freedoms and the liability. The four freedoms of the land are not obliged to build monuments or other infrastructures. As with the raw meat that some have referred to, it would be as if the Icelandic State were subject to damage if they refused to build, e.g. port because a person wanted to move out fish and the state was obliged to increase the quathane so that the person could get more fish to sell. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's naturally preposterous, and that's not a strong argument, Mr. President. I'll finish up for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u88	Hv. A senator has no choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I just want to come in on what's been going on. Where it is. A senator who serves on the State Department could likely have an opinion on this. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Silg Dögg Gunnarsdóttir that the EEA Convention is in danger, three energy packets will not be introduced into Icelandic and Icelandic law? As a result, it may be helpful to find out whether the European Union has communicated its message to the Icelandic government that they intend to quit or change the EU contract if the energy package is not approved. As a result - and I wait for the natural answer from what. A senator - you wonder, " How can it really be against the contract to follow it? ' The way we have, to refer the case to the Joint EEA Committee to provide them with an exception from this directive. I just want to come in on the alert, too, if you don't mind. A senator, the legal premium that the government intends to bring in here, asking if they will keep their values, whether or not. A senator believes that they represent European courts. And if she thinks so, why should they think?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good answer, Þórarinsson's son. Do I believe the EEA Convention is in danger if the General refuses to allow the induction of a three-fold energy package? Yeah, possible. This could happen, as I mentioned in my talk earlier and also in our own time, by not introducing a specific rule that applies to a common market. After a tour of the joint committee, we have an opportunity to receive the leave and adjustment that we ask for and we have, for example, the opportunity to have the freedoms and adjustments we have. received them in this matter. Redirecting the case after the completion of the procedure has never been done in the 25-year history of the contract. The experts we've asked the question we had. A senator is now asking me that a perfect adventure was discussing to us with possible serious political consequences. No one can tell exactly, and neither will I, who would be. But I don't think that taking that chance would be the best way for us Icelanders to do. There was another question. Senator. I don't know that messages came from the European Union, any threats to cancel the contract. I don't have that information for me. I'm pointing out what. A senator is to speak with a member of his party, please. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who was the minister of the State during the time this case was held by the joint EEA committee. No doubt he has information about why no further release was requested. The premonitions, yes, they think. This has been revealed by the review of the Committee and I present them, e.g. At 31st. [[The president calls.]] The wine contract. Also, the scribes Stefán Motor Stefánsson and Friðrik Án Friðriksson Hirst have supported that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is interesting in this regard to the fact that the answer is ignored. A senator that has not received any European message that the European Union Convention on the European Economic Area is at risk if the induction is not made at the General Assembly. This is an important input into this discussion. Thank you. A senator for expressing it. It's just a question of wonder. A senator - and prospectively, the administrative part - of the possibility that this might be a concern and a danger. It's a lawsuit that would identify a little member of the management team in this, possibly or maybe. But we do have the legal means that we all know, to lead the committee. There is nothing against it, and it is reasonable to do so, in view of the great opposition that exists among the people against this issue and opposition within the parties, especially in the forward parties. There's a lot of opposition to this matter in the forward party, so that it can be maintained. It would be interesting to have it past the date. A senator whether she knows if an exception has caused any problems. I don't know about that. Although this was not done in the 25-year history of the contract, such as the cog. A senator says, there is nothing that prevents it from being done because this is part of the contract. It must be held in place. It's part of the deal to be able to go on that legal route. It'd be nice to have a good time. A senator would get into this a little bit more. Finally, a little more than a very involved. Recently, our energy report on the effects of Iceland's access to the European Union energy Union, a very interesting report, was published by one of three professors and others at the University of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Here is a chapter on page 18. 41 on the economic effects of a pack of three energy, very interesting. [[The president calls.]] What does it look like? A senator on the report?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u92	A respectable president. Let's discuss these contributions, discuss deduction and impact on the EEA Treaty and the speculation of the members of Congress and other members of Parliament outside members of the Central Party and the Gang of the People. When the matter was discussed on a foreign matter committee, we discussed just the exception. I reiterate my first answer to what? A senator's concern on why further extra leaves were not received during the case of the joint EEA committee. Then there was power. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then minister of foreign affairs, and fellow group member of state. paritaprevir Þórarinsson the son of Thorin, then the prime minister, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. They had considerable power then, and they could have improved their use of more than they could have received in the case. I got it. I got it. A senator to discuss this with his members. The committee asked opposers: What is our request, then, for? If we were to redirect the case, what would we be asking for in detail more than what has already been received? There wasn't much to answer. We did not get the answer to that question. What this is all about is that there is further consumer protection in energy markets. It's about how the Power Institute of Iceland receives additional surveillance clearances to ensure consumer protection. That's what this is all about. There is no legal question that the case is permissible, that is another very important factor, and it does not violate the four freedoms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I listened to the early part of spring, since I'm not looking at Euroviion, and it's certainly a good time. A senator that nothing new has happened, at least not on her part, ever since. I'd like to ask you why. A senator to 102th degree. The EEA Convention. Does the senator not trust that article? Does she just count to a hundred, from 0 to 100? At 102nd. it is noted that the introductions can be rejected and referred to the Joint EEA Committee. I don't want to get a historical opinion that it could've been done sooner. I agree with the senator that it could have been done until we can do it now because we didn't do it back then. I would also like to pray. A senator to better describe to us the intimate warnings she has made so as to be like the advance company, wearing a pair of clothes and bracelets, glued to tops, and in new shoes. And I would like to have a legal explanation for how these warnings are held. One nice scribe, along with others, as a dog. A senator did not point to this, yet the news has revealed that a fine man was aglow. A member of the council is a memorable judge of the province of Arnar Þór Jónsson. She did not mention the cautions he spoke of, e.g. has moved, or Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether she was offended to read an Arnar Þór's memo for her benefit and to see if she did not study what Eyjólfur the son of Ármannsson had to say in this case, so that all is said to be done. I'd like to get an overview of this. Also from her assistant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's response, as well as asking him back anyway. A senator himself has read all the opinions presented in the discussion. Foreign Affairs. There are many things that might be there. It's useful, after all this time, for why. A senator reading. I answered, that I think, what. paritaprevir The young man of Birgir's Þórarinsson is well aware of how I feel about this release or deduction, and I'm not going to repeat it here. But I'm gonna ask you again. A member of Congress: What is the exception of praying beyond what we have already received? That's the question. The General doesn't send a case back to the joint EEA committee just because it's only to check on something that's still unclear. What we are asking for must be very clear. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: What does the senator want in addition to what we have already received? It would be interesting to hear that answer after all this discussion, up to another hundred hours in the conference hall. I have not yet received the answer to that question, either at the Committee or here in the Hall of Congress. A letter that has been quoted several times has also been quoted by both the European Energy Commissioner and EFTA, who was discussed in our discussion. It was noted in the case of some of the experts who appeared to the committee again in the summer that the proclamations of these parties had a national value and referred to Article 31. So, in support of the wine agreement. Similar statements have been made, and they can also be looked up, and I could send them. A senator's list of the judgments so that he can be absolutely sure. [[The president calls.]] I'll take care of what. A senator, but his sovereignty is not in danger. The Constitution is not in danger. We are not breaking the four freedoms, and this is where no cable will be laid except by the Icelandic people's approval. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u95	Mr. President. Hv. A senator misunderstands the word. When facing what. A senator is expected to give answers, but he is not going to ask questions first. So I still want to reiterate with her - and I hope that I also have a chance to talk to an assistant. A senator later mentioned in the discussion - and a new question on what it is at 102rd. The EEA Convention, which is not valid or not reliable in its judgment. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator whether she and possibly the whole administrative part are afraid of what is called political uncertainty. A man who came this summer, eight million years ago. K. Plus travel costs, named Professor Carl Baudenbacher, came kind of to scare us in Grýla, said we should accept this recording for the Norwegians and not make ourselves mad at the European Union. I have to admit, I don't think this advice is 8 million. K. worth it. I'll just admit it freely. I ask: What is it we should be afraid of political uncertainty? Have we not been dealing with political uncertainty throughout the republic? Are we not dealing with political uncertainty? Is it not our political assignment to do so? It's different. But why such fear? And why are they afraid to trust all the EEA treaties? We'll trust him, the whole deal, not only from 0 to 100, but also from 102 p.m. So I ask, "What's so creepy and insignificant about 102?" par.? What is so confusing and frightening about our political uncertainty? [[The president calls.]] That is what we are ideal to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u96	A respectable president. I'm just relieved to know that here at the council Hall are so brave and fearless and strong men who dare to deal with difficult things, who dare to cope with uncertainty. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm just relieved. Good to know. Thanks, too. A senator for the guidance, for explaining how answers work. [[Up front.]] Thank you so much for that, too. It's good to get guidance from an experienced man. Once again, I'm not going to stop there. 102st. is clear, and I explained it, if the senator has listened carefully to my case here and in spring, very carefully on what our cooperation in EFTA and EEA is based. There are certain rules. We have ways of wishing and adjusting for what we want and need, and we feel that we need it. There is a time and place for such work. That work took place during the Ministerial period of time. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, current member of the councilman. Rather, he should ask his coworker why he was not asked for additional leaves at the time of the discussion. I'm gonna ask you again why. A member of Parliament: If we decide to send the matter back, what shall we ask for more than what we already received? One does not do this unless you have sound reasons and clear questions about what we are going to receive from such a source. The interests of Icelanders are no better paid by setting up some adventure tour with no question with you, no demands, just something. [[The president calls.]] Is that wise?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u97	A respectable president. In fact, in spring, I thought that when the Central Party insisted on postponing the case on the third energy package, there would be some new information, facts, the delay being more than a deliberate political game, and perhaps also to use the trip to make a date for the government. I think it's old-fashioned and I don't like it. It's bad for democracy and it's bad for our sovereignty when we're in this way at the oldest Congress in the world. Let's get some things straight. The energy package has nothing on the cable. It's all in our hands. The energy package is not being handed over to foreign institutions. It is a great power agency, but it is supported and its sources as well. Energy package three does not require any activity in the United States. The government is not being obligatory to privatize power agencies. They're not going against the constitution. It is not ensuing a law that leads to a higher energy price. None of this is contained in a pack of three energy, but the energy package opposers still want to get access from the energy package, not from what is not in it. Of course, it doesn't work. All intelligent men and women. What, then, is the opposition to the energy package? Their opposition, the Central Party, and its cohesive forces, is that there will not be a right price for energy from national resources. The opposition is that it is not really meant to ensure a proper management and control of the nation over resources and to impose a natural requirement for the government to do so. The opposition to the energy package is that they do not want transparency. This is not surprising. They do not want their opposition to ask natural questions about whether it is right for big business and heavy - users to get some short - term contracts up to 65 years of age. It's supposed to be going all right. These questions must not be asked. The underlying mechanism is translucency and information. Their opposition also involves their not wanting to increase consumer protection. They do not want to promote and support competition. This involves opposition to the third energy package. The opposition also includes not wanting energy use to be followed by better energy efficiency. The opposition between the Central Party and its members also includes not wanting to force electricity companies to open up and publish electronic information. But especially includes the opposition of the Central Party and the Residents of the Governments and the members of the community that there will be no responsibilities to be taken over the national community in a targeted way in climate and environment. We Icelanders all sit here, we sit here at the council as Icelanders, and the Northerns are us too. We are also Europeans and earth's inhabitants, so we do not compromise. Why do I mention it? Because we live on an island, we share one atmosphere with all other people, all the others living on this earth. It's a much bigger project than we can handle on our own, bigger than any nation can handle, i.e. To counteract the climate change we've started. It is the core of the European Union energy policy, which seems to have not given enough space at this point. Of course, this climate policy, this energy policy, doesn't matter in the minds of the conservative forces against a pack of energy, since it is a force in my opinion of a constant denial of the threat of climate problems, of disaster. Let's look at the first principles in the energy package. It even says so. decisions should be made in accordance with the environment and competition. As for competition, all these committees, both foreign and professional authorities, made it clear that the religion of three energy packs at competition is not a major source of energy. Likewise, transparency is not at the top of their magazine. They prefer, as mentioned on the committee's meetings, that old time is used to determine electrical prices instead of a tournament of energy for public power companies to be run with money and profit and profit and money paid in the state's budget. But old times are more supposed to be in charge. For example, the instructions of a pack of three energy are making it possible for Europeans to meet the climate targets that we have set for ourselves. One of the largest sources of pollution in Europe and the world is energy use in various forms, even when energy is produced environmentally from renewable energy sources. By improving energy efficiency, limiting use, and improving efficiency, we can reduce emissions significantly and permanently. As has many references to the European Union's ideologies reflected in the third energy package a belief in free and strong competition that ensures all the same rights and obligations for public interests and consumers in the foregrounds. And here, exactly, the enormous interest of the public and consumers is that public interest will be presented in terms of special interest. In the Court's third energy package, both consumer protection and improved energy efficiency, there are just that a pack of energy takes into account our daily needs for the future, for all, not just some. But here they also split up. This shows the gap between those who look ahead and want to take ambitious steps in the interests of the common people and future generations and those who want to cling in the ancient world, the idea of transvestite the island that rejects close cooperation with other countries, no matter what it will cost us. On the other hand, during our restoration, we have made a decision and have taken our stand for the future, with future generations and on earth. We have shown this by our actions and have not always put out popular ideas. We even preached. In fact, the rise in carbon taxes as a government in the United States was reduced. By supporting our continued involvement in Europe's cooperation, which has provided the basis for being responsible for combating climate in recent decades, we are taking an important step in coping with the future. But those who oppose the energy package are simply pushing these important criteria aside. And it is not surprising when Central Classes and their coven would rather lean on Trumps's climate policy and seriously believe that Iceland and the vast interests of our country are better protected by two - side contracts, which often become only one - sided by a large nation, instead of working with other nations in a vast international community. In the power of our sovereignty, we have been able to participate in international cooperation, and we have done so through the successful cooperation of Western nations, through defense work with EFTA, and then by our participation in the EU's inner market. This is what we do in the power of the sovereignty. That's our chance. Not only are we able to do so but we have a moral obligation to have done everything in our power to cope with the pressures of the environment that befall us. It will then not hurt that with the same cooperation throughout the EEA, our opportunities in Iceland have also increased, whether we talk about school or work, much less business. The interests of all of us through international cooperation, such as Europe's inner market, have improved substantially. I have to say, there's a lot you've disliked in this discussion. The worst part, though, is when the discussion has been taken, e.g. on the set very objectively that different matters are asked together, e.g. that the energy package and sea cables are one thing, same decision. As has been noted many times, it is not. Nor can we overlook the position that the European Union and EFTA have included in small countries. This is very important to us Icelanders. This is part of the fact that if we undermine the European Treaty, we're subjugating our support, our business and our dealings with big countries, but also big companies. The European Union and EFTA have been able to make progress. against powerful corporations, many of which have played the game of entering the economy and tend to avoid social rules established by independent state and sovereigns. There are many instances where we Iceland as a small nation are stronger in the international cooperation of many countries than we are in a two - sided relationship. Then there's a targeted propaganda that no one knows what's going on through our Energy and another person who no one knows how to finance. A third energy package review is a warning to me. It is a powerful warning. All of this has to do with the discussion of the third energy package for us, the political forces that face ideals and fight for ideals for freedom, equality, diversity, and international cooperation - we put them first. Therefore, we must be on guard so that old ideas in new clothes do not suddenly appear at the government table one day and we have not done enough to combat such. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we must be on guard, Mr. President, to speak against despots, to speak against the freedoms of the country for the whole nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u98	The president agrees with what? Congress officials may need to be loud, but they need to do so within the period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I've noticed that at what time. A senator in her unnumbered debate that will report on increasing consumer protection, this is such an important case because it involves increasing consumer protection. In this case, the context of an energy pack is one and two because it's all one unit. This is one step at a time toward a complete increase in market freedom with electricity. Then I'll have to ask you what. A senator would consider the experience with an energy package one and two to be good at consumer protection. Hv. A senator has also mentioned in his talks that energy dealers can be replaced, that they have become competitive. But what is the case? What's the experience, e.g. A pack of energy one? It is that changing energy dealers does not respond to costs because the discounts are so small. I know it for myself because I used to burn a house with electricity. One energy pack made my house warm electricity rise 90% in one night because all special contracts were forbidden. The government's system in Brussels forbade the company's heating system to subsidize the electricity for house warming. And I ask, What do the officials of Brussels have to do with it? Senator, are we subsidizing electricity for house warming in our oppressive country? In addition, I have tried to change energy sales in an effort to reach the cost of electricity, but there is no result because there is no cost. What was announced in an energy package about increasing consumer protection is not up to date. Senator. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't make sense. That's why I want to know. A senator's experience with energy packets one and two is positive for Icelanders, positive for consumers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this the consumer protection you're so happy with, huh? Senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u100	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u101	Yes, I can claim that our situation in Iceland is much better by a pack of energy one, a pack of two, and hopefully now that this deal is approved, energy pack three. Then comes the next pack, and it's not a pack of energy four, but it's a clean energy package. Right from the beginning with exactly an energy package of one and an energy pack two, and now a pack of three is being followed by an increased company requirements, including Lists of electronic devices to bring environmental products. It's for consumers. Or is the environment not in the Middle Party's dictionary, making clear demands on companies, how they are involved in developing electronic devices, how they get the product that is electricity on the market? All of this is done even for environmental protection, don't forget that variable. That's not true. A senator says that the European Union is banning electrical recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u102	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u103	No, no. [[It is.]] I understand that in 2009, I haven't figured it out, was a billion in subsidies. Is that against the law? Let's just go to the budget. It's not against the law. This is yet another claim that is presented to undermine facts relating to the third energy package. I point out that it is important that we examine the overall picture. It's to ensure electrical security, electronic transfer security. It is to ensure that information becomes stronger and, yes, in the interest of Icelandic consumers, that we get out what major users, whether they are the aluminium companies or the other major users, have paid for the electricity from the country's common resources over the years. That was one of them. This can be understood very well when the establishment of the plant in Straumsvík was established, but today is simply another time. We are not supposed to let Iceland's electronic policy continue to be shaped by old approach and old thinking. We want to open, we want transparency, and we want information. It's for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u104	Mr. President. Once again, we hear from those who support the issue that is not valid. I said here, what? A senator, that energy pack one prohibited special contracts, i.e. subsidies of electricity, not the subsidies of electricity for house warming in general, but all special contracts. In the Southnes' room area, homes that had special contracts were located. As a result of this decree, they were banned, resulting in an increase of electricity prices in those homes of about 74 to 90%. Is it consumer protection at any given moment? A senator like that? I'm asking. I got it. I got it. A senator to read the careful report of our Energy. On page 18. 41 is a section on the economic impacts and the importance of a three-fold energy pack. It presents a number of fascinating statements, including those in the United States. to increase power prices. [[The president calls.]] It's a fact, my ass. A senator you can't drive. Electric prices in Iceland have increased since the introduction of a energy package one and two, 10% at the 2003 production, to a real value of 78% to today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u105	The President reminds me of a time limit, it's in effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u106	Mr. President. I had a lot of meetings, including... in the Department of Foreign Affairs, an expert on energy that has written literature on the subject, graduates as an expert in energy rights, lawyer, Hilmar Gunnlaugsson. He points out that the induction of a energy package one and two, and now three, it has nothing to do with electrical prices. Power prices increase may include due to lack of energy or other factors. You must simply compare apples and apples, not always apples and oranges. However, it is fitting for the middle class to always turn aside in this regard. Let us be clear that since 2002 there has been a warrant for reducing the cost of house warming, and there have been subsidies. Don't bring anything else. Don't bring another bullshit up here. [[Up front.]] This is nothing more than nonsense presented in an effort to minimize what the facts merely present. This was repeatedly shown to the committee's meetings on the subject. Let's get the facts straight. [[The president calls.]] I don't like it if it's still that argument. [[The president calls.]] Middleclassmen have not learned anything during the summer, not brought anything new, but continued to set up standards for Congress and nation. [[The president calls.]] This is not welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u107	The President reminds us of a time limit, reminding us that a contract will end at the end of this meeting. 20 tonight. Therefore, the president recommends for members of Parliament to respect the time limit set here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She didn't come surprised at anything. The course of restoration in Europe is quite clear, and as a result, it is not surprising. Actually, I didn't mean to come up against what. A senator. I respect the opinions of others and wish that no one would ever do anything to me, which is completely contrary to the induction of the third energy package, such as the group of the people in it, we are now two. The fact is, I come up here because I feel really uncomfortable listening to the possibility that I'm part of the Central Party because they're at odds. A senator and a majority of the council - they reveal on Monday - and that you don't care about the climate crisis that is going on here and around us. That's not true. Nowhere at any point as a group of people are terrified of the climate and the threat to the earth today. It's just because of what I come up with. The people's party is no central party for one or more, even though we're going to vote against a pack of three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u109	Mr. President. You can say the word "what" with it. Senator, it will be considered late to the party of the Central Party. However, I would like to draw out, and did so before, that in the spring and in the beginning of summer, the entire talk of the Central Party was not talked about environmentally, which is one of the major parts of going into the induction of a pack of three energy and is the basis of a energy pack one and two. And then what will be the result? A senator who's chairman of the Shock People? How is the next energy package that is primarily about pure energy called the clean energy package? In this regard, are laws primarily for the protection of each individual? To protect small groups of income. The focus is especially on small groups and consumers. It is an arrangement for the use of goods that especially affects general consumers and families. The directive sharpens the responsibility of the moveees and distribution hosts, everything in behalf of families, and especially by focusing on those with the smallest income in each country. This is something I would have thought to be a subject of reason. A senator and the people's people are covering around. Still, I respect her opinion on the matter, and I will not compare the methodology and approach of the mob to the Central Party in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm really glad that we at least... Find out that we are not following anyone else. What is involved in what lies ahead with the energy issues, a energy package one, two and three, a pack of four on our energy issues and a package of five that happens to our water, I say: Are we talking about these measures? There is not much that Iceland and I in our outback and geographic situation can boast as our special status, but electricity is one of them. So I say for my parts that I'm not at all on the line of putting up a line in every house, like a pack of four says that we have to wash at four o'clock in the morning in an effort to pay less expensive electricity and so on. I'm not in that line at all. Senator. I'm not going to say that, although we can walk ahead in many ways, we will be able to do more than what I want to see, to try to make the most of our own energy. [[The president calls.]] That's what I see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u111	Mr. President. I will do everything in my power to keep electrical prices low, as well as to take the actions needed to use our environmental energy wisely with future generations in mind. This means that there is a requirement, including the matter of doing so. to the power companies, but also to the big users. This means that big users who have considered themselves to have free access to contracts for possibly 65 years, temporary contracts to use common resources are asked questions. It is no longer possible for big users to walk as little as easily as possible in using energy as possible against a natural currency. It's just a change of time, and we claim to those who supply energy and distribute energy for us from the country's common resources. That's why we're going to revere, and hopefully all of us at the council, doing what we can to trigger a rule. Part of the energy package is there, helping us to increase the generation, increase and increase their opportunities, but not to remind them as some would like to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u112	Mr. President. There's been quite a talk here about the joint EEA committee. In particular, Iceland was decided by the European Commission from 2017 by a third energy pack. They were based on what Iceland wanted and obtained from the induction of the first and second energy package. There is an exception to the full excretion of transport companies, i.e. Landnet, as well as the manufacturing, sale, and distribution plants. It is permitted to apply for a minimum and an isolated electrical system. Iceland is the exception of all EU gases from the Earth. Then let me just mention the third thing that's happened here, people are talking about gas use in Iceland from some kind of cow. This refers to natural gas, which does not exist in Iceland. Fourth, two supporting adjustments were made in that the EFTA, ESA, monitoring department will have the authority to the EFTA countries in the EEA, but not ACER. I want to ask you why. A senator will agree with me that these are important points and then why. These are factors. Middle-class people say very little about anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u113	Mr. President. In spring, I made it clear to some of my talks that there is one thing that the entire energy package process has revealed. In fact, any governments involved in the case, the government, the government, the State Department officials, and other problems involved, were handled. They were very alert at all levels, whether left or right, in promoting Iceland's interests. It is important for us to see that our system's workings are floundering. We've received an exception that matters to us. We kept the warning and are now doing things that are important to us. That's the big deal. That is why I was saying that those who oppose the energy package as it is now oppose something that is not available there. There's nothing about a cable there. There is no evidence that any bad foreigners or the European Union can force us to activate or channel electricity into other countries. There's nothing about it. Therefore, I am also suggesting that all this coverage, from the Central Party, tells me that we, as advocates of freedom, liberality, equality, and international cooperation, need to keep on the watch, that it will not then be considered as the next matter acceptable. I'm asking, for example. of the personal protection directive, why the same reason? It should have been a lot more thought - provoking for the Central Party. Why not? Was it difficult, perhaps, to sell it to the land? If we talk about our energy, how much more can it be connected with feelings and excitement? There is no one here at the council, and I assure you, there is no senator who is going to do anything but protect the country's sovereignty. I believe that by sharing in the cooperation of sovereign states, we are not threatening Iceland. We're more of a sponsor for Iceland. Fears that are beyond the corner, and Middle Classes see so cruel, are much more a populism, national polygamy, and people's covens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the threat we're supposed to be looking out for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u114	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. We all agree that we also do not want a cable. When it comes to asking about the horrors drawn by the European Union in energy, where it is forcing all kinds of energy resources and connections, France and Belgium are being drawn out. In France we are able to deal with the process of providing a temporary water supply scheme. What does it have to do with the privatization of government companies? In Belgium, as I tried to talk about here from a pontu, the EU accounts for that.a. that Belgium has not given sufficient power to the Belgian electricity system. Now I want someone's opinion, what. A senator whose focus is similar to mine in this regard, at least As to the third energy package, whether she sees any parallels in these two cases, Belgium and France, with what we're talking about here, the third energy package in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u115	Mr. President. Clean answer: No. I don't see an analogy in these substances except in what it draws. You see, it's a good thing that the Central Party is bringing up these issues in Belgium and France, which show that we Icelanders have much more than our own surveillance systems. We've funded Power Institute and its environment and authority, what does it do? Which ultimately strengthens consumer status, strengthens the environment, the competitive environment for which the Central Party is clearly not too impressed, but strengthens this environment and position of consumers. That's where I see the difference, we've done a much better job, and it may not be necessary that the European Union's surveillance agencies are merely cutting these nations. By looking out for institutions, monitoring agencies such as Power Institutes, we contribute to what, not only strengthens consumer positions but, in time, builds up reasonable climate policies and environmental policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u116	The president wants to know before it is strongly recommended for members of the council to respect the time limit, since this is the scheduled talk period and the scheduled meeting period. For it to be held, members of the Parliament themselves need to maintain their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u117	A respectable president. Soon we will make the dramatic decision to vote for the induction of the rule of a three-pack of energy. It has been observed that few have not been spent at times during the discussion. And what has it done? Has it been pointed? Has it been pointed in the right direction? The more you have discussed the induction of a pack of three energy, the more questions have been raised. I am so simple in my legal knowledge that I would have considered our joint agreement, the EEA Convention, as a firm basis for seeing where we really stand to negotiate the particular position I believe we have in Iceland. To hear a senator come up and declare it, as soon as they say they intend to support a pack of energy of three, that: Yes, we're going to support it, we really want to apply the EU target in a common internal energy market, but of course we don't want a cable. Of course, we're not going to lay a cable. Then you ask yourself, " Why in the world are we bringing in this package of energy? ' Why do we take the steps further into the Community's objective of a shared internal energy market? Why? Are we afraid to test it permanently for the joint EEA committee? Especially now, when we face the reality of the situation, which is exactly this: Is it what we want, to take the step further, and next, with a pack of four? A respectable president. It is noteworthy to note that it is clear, and it is known that a four - pack of energy has been on the side of the National Associations and others in the country, despite the fact that we, the elected representatives at the General Assembly of the Icelands, have not yet been allowed to enjoy it, much less. Of course, a man can google him and pick him up. But is he Icelandic? No, he's not. So you ask yourself: " What journey are governments, governments, who have even said they are not worthy of walking in the European Union? What journey is the Independence Party? What road trip is the advance team? What road is left green? Is it surprising that people are becoming confused? It doesn't realize that, on the other hand, we're not going to get into the inner market -- no, we're not going there because it's not our interest - but we still want to bring in the rule book. Is it slavery? Are we really afraid of the contract that has proved to be good for us, which is essential to us and has produced in many ways the prosperity we enjoy today? Do governments fear the agreement that they are not ready to be tested? I don't have a single extra word. This is a administrative warning that is actually meant to be, which I personally say is not to hold water or wind, but to hold them and prevent us from actually needing to activate the third energy package. We're ingesting it, but it's still not activated. What the hell's with the induction process? Is this what the EEA deal is all about, that we pretend we're just going to bring in? Is that the argument that governments consider good enough in our face? We pretend we're going to bring him in, but he's useless. It's all a fake. Is that what we're saying? It is absolutely minimal that we test the agreements we have made, i.e. If we're saying it's secret and clear that we didn't intend to go all the way in. I don't have to stand here blowing these ten minutes, maybe they're running out, I don't know because I'm so dirty. But it doesn't change the fact that I feel that the approach has been that we're buying experts, calling foreign parties who have been working at the EFTA Court for 22 years and that they're Europeans, have been inside stores trying to establish a common energy market, Europe's inner market. Who would think that what we receive is neutral when we buy them? Can anyone think of that? At least I don't. I'm sure there are many out there, Icelanders, our voters, who can't see it objectively. That's not possible. Who can think of that when we are receiving a specialist by a specialist, a professor after a professor, even a judge from the European Court? How can we delude them and say that some are right and others are not? Why not respect everything they have to say? Why not respect one another's opinion? If that's what it is. The government wants to make it happen, to get us to a common Europe market, why not get it out of its own way? Why not tell the truth? The fourth energy package is in place and the fifth energy package is around the water. There is a lack of water in many parts of the world, not yet here. But this is our treasure. We do not yet dig gold or metal from the earth, but we have clean water, we have clean energy. Well, there's a shortage of energy. There is a shortage of green energy in Europe. A respectable president. That's the direction of the Stockholm people, and we've always been building our own land and returning our energy to the Americans. There's a shortage of energy up north. There is a lack of energy on Smokeynes, there is a lack of energy on the west side, and we are running even on diesels at the highest level because the distribution system is not strong enough. We're producing 30% of excess energy compared to what we really use because we can't use it even if there's no sense of it. In what way are governments burning 66,000 tons of coal in Backak a year? What are those who pretend to be thinking about the climate and the carbon tracks? In what way is the government going to move into a ton of a sheep's back somewhere far out of the world and to export our meat instead? You just can't control what kind of governance is going on here. All I'm calling out for is, why don't you say the truth, you guys that vote with this energy package? Why don't you just tell them it's your way? Why can't you point out that you are absolutely a palace for us to go all the way into the European Union and what it has to offer, a common internal energy market? Why don't you say we'd rather get our energy out there than submerge like that? energy to our own manufacturers, as with fruits and vegetables? Why can't we be self-sustained about that? Why should we pollute with a carbon track by importing fruit and vegetables? Why don't we make ourselves? Why didn't we get a release from the Joint EEA Committee? Why didn't we stand on our feet and say, "Here and no more? I think it's mutual. They also benefit from having us on a contract, not just us. I'll say that the people's party has always been saying, since day one, long before there was a discussion on a pack of energy three, and I've written articles about it, that the resources are ours, not the European Union. It is clear to no one that the induction of the third energy package is one of the biggest problems that Power Institute will be completely eliminated from everything and will become independent. And who is it that sends her a message? Although we are not under ACER, and it's a fact that only by means of a cable and we've become involved in the market, this does not change the fact that we are receiving a friendly offer, as we have received, by bringing one of the regulations after another, whether it takes advantage of us or not. We have been enslaved in some form of slavery like plunger pads instead of strengthening our relationship, inside our contract. And when we're saving money and throwing the crown, we should at least. To be with our agents there who are fighting for our goods in those contracts national and non-national terms, the EEA treaties. Of course, we are to follow them and not always be taken into the sack, and we have all arranged for them to come into our table. The good news is that I understand that there should be some change. I understand we're going to keep this monitor exactly so that we don't stay in the sack forever and look like idiots when we're suddenly going to say, "Here and no more." Stop. The fact is, the nation has woken up, and this is exactly the case with society. I say, we have to look overall on the picture: the aim is only one common internal energy market in Europe. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u118	Mr. President. Why do we share the European Union's common internal energy market? Because the question is asked. But what's in it? This looks terrible when you say that, and it's even called a European energy relationship, something like this. As I look at these targets, they are a free cooperation of energy resources within the EU. There is no one who forces the country to produce so many megawatts of something. Neither is anyone who forces land to sell so much oil, gas, or coal. Senator. It's just that way. Besides, free connections between countries are also negotiated. There is no one who forces a link to another country, regardless of what happens to it or how it would be bedridden, whether it is a sea cable, a landline, or a ground cord. This image doesn't match. Then we know why. A senator is fully aware that one of the main objectives of all of this is green energy in Europe. When we're in it, it's just that we're doing our thing completely. That's so on the EEA deal. So it's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u119	What's wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u120	It is wrong that we are undergoing something that forces us to accept or produce electricity - because it contains it. If ever there was a sea cable here for any reason, we could, of course, determine what it was moving, what was manufactured, when, and so on. Without any agreement, we would certainly be able to monitor ESAs or ACER or what that might be. So this movie, a horror film being drawn up, and panic propaganda, is all very harmful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm beginning to think he just didn't listen to me at all, I have to say it. There was no panic propaganda here, not for five bucks. Talk about needing something like that - was I ever to mention that we were committed to laying a cable? Did I just mention it? I know better. I know we're a sovereign state, huh? A senator, a person who is less likely to wonder if we would at the same time do harm. That's something no one knows. Speaking of green energy, I can't believe it. A senator has wanted to talk about green energy in view of his particular panel of green energy. I named 66,000 tons of coal a year on a fire at the studio at Bakka. I don't know any better than that I was primarily talking about the EEA deal considering that we were equal there and anyone under the contract. And that we have our contract there like any other. What I'm criticizing is that we haven't used it. We haven't used it for us. I'd like to point out that I still believe that we have a special status, not just market seeing, but a unique position toward our electricity, our geographic status, and we have a chance to do much better when it comes to making a deal on our own with the EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u122	Mr. President. It would be interesting to know who these terms should be. I just explained why. A senator who really is this common energy policy. It's just a whole different picture than that. A senator is trying to give, and that's the issue. A cable, not a sea cable? It is absolutely upon our custody and liability with reference to free flow of goods is the misunderstanding. A senator is held and builds on, that free flow of goods depends on the pressure to force a state to produce a particular product, a quantity of it, and to sell it out of the country, regardless of what that state thinks he can. What about nature protection? Should we vindicate all our demands on nature protection? Shall we vindicate the authority over the weekend and the lines there? This is ridiculous. But I'd like to point one or two points out. The fourth and even fifth and sixth energy package are being discussed. They're throwing this up. What about the contents? If it is true that the fourth energy package is primarily environmentally, in fact, green energy, it may well be that we could accept it after being handled by the joint committee. I'd really like to point my tail. A senator's release from silica, as well as so many thousands of tons of carbon dioxide, is because this is the only method available in the world to produce a silica, almost clean silica, which is so thoroughly purified. And what is done with it? The sun is made. To throw it up here and to say about the 3rd and 4 terrible energy package is a textbook example in poopulism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now he has a textbook example in papalism. Hv. Clearly, a senator is very well - versed in various aspects of his life. He's explaining to me, as he called it, what all this energy policy is about. It would have been worth the attention, and it would have been better if it had been so. A senator might have taken a man into a class before he was here, talking nonsense. What I've been stressing and will continue to do - except for that to the point. A senator was so nice to remember that we had a conversation in Elli's show, so he referred to it, because I didn't mention it in my speech earlier where I talked about the four freedoms and the free flow of the product. But I will emphasize that it is absolutely right, that I think it as a matter of reason. A senator has been with me at a committee meeting, perhaps not, since we received a representative from the Foreign Affairs Committee, which declared, as soon as it was in its resistance, that the Icelandic government was absolutely forbidden to block free flow of product into Europe's inner market, with respect to the EEA Convention, without potentially contributing to our liability. At the very least, we cannot prevent the members and producers from seeking their rights in the courts. That's pretty clear. So I say again: The situation we're standing in right now and when it's talking about the fourth energy package -- all right, yeah, yeah, great if it's just green -- but I don't want to get some measure on a fork that tells me that if I wash my laundry at lunch, I'll pay many times more for the energy than if I rip up at two o'clock in the night to put on a washing machine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u124	A respectable president. I can agree with that with what. A senator that I wouldn't want to wake up at night. two in the night to wash my laundry, I don't think anyone's talking about it. I don't really know how that story can take off. I'd still like to start off with that, a respectable president, thank you very much. A senator before the talk, and especially perhaps I find myself upset. A senator has been perturbing in his language, and he has attended a meeting of the State Department, where we are both sitting and sitting under questions and answers. In fact, we do not seem to have accurately interpreted the answers, and we disagree on basics. That's why I feel like, for example. very important, because of what. A senator concluded that the flow of goods cannot be blocked, that it was also clearly stated that the European Union could never harm us to park highways, build bridges, or place a sea cable. That was very clear in this discussion. On the other hand, if a cable were available, we could not choose who would move around it, for it was like any other highway, and then everyone would have to have the same right. But there is no one who can harm us in exactly this. Hv. A senator has had a change of suggestions and requested that these be paid nationally. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for I still don't quite quite get it: What solutions do I see? A senator? Is it that way. A senator wants to walk out of the EEA Convention? Wants to play. A senator resigns IV. The addition of the EEA Convention to make a new contract? Or it's like that. A senator just wants to say stop at the third energy package and accept the previous thing? Is it the claim that we do not want energy to be a warning? Then I wondered: " What solutions do I see? A senator of this? Where would it go? A senator wants to go if she's the sole authority in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u125	Thank you. A senator for the answer, a respectable president. I'm sorry I forgot to do that first. If I were to rule alone, I'd say, "Just stop,'like, " I'm sorry it's come to where it's come from. ' It is much harder to get to the bottom of it, since we have made arrangements in our society derived from the induction of previous energy panels, such as Landsnet. It is worth your attention to compare it with, a free flow of goods, one of the main provisions of the four freedoms, to the highways of the country, or to an airport, or anything else. But we have an energy company, a free energy company, a private company on the market. When you listen to the State Department experts say at the same time that we can't block free flow of product into the market, how can we stop them at the same time if they have invested and everything, it's different? Of course, the State can. Of course, we're sovereigns, and I immediately said so. We take our own advice. At the same time, however, we may be doing harm by inhibiting it. Although meat and energy are not the same, we imposed restrictions. In fact, we can look at a huge damage problem that occurred at a time when we inhibited Samherja, the famous leprous when we had to pay Sameers a lot of money because we forbade them to get their product out in the market. While we define energy as product, we should say, "What?" Senator, is this a product of special nature, or is this just a general product? [[The president calls.]] I'm going to frame my answer: I'd say stop at once and test it for the joint EEA how they view our geographic status and our unique energy situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's exactly what she came to at the end, to say stop now and see what the joint EEA Committee says. We have a statement from counsellors in the European Union. We have books for the joint EES committee. It's clear to everyone that we're an island, and we're not connected to the mainland. It is also clear that, because the senator spoke of damages, if anyone was to pursue such a case, there would be some other need to be expected of it. From the discussion that has developed here, from the warnings made in the Senate arrangement that will be agreed on here on Monday, from all that discussion and declarations, no one can show that he can have the expectations of connecting a cable. As a result, no damage problem can be judged. We've been through this all over and over again. Foreign Affairs, me and what. paritaprevir Sæland hareland. Then I'd like to ask the senator a little bit more because I'm having a hard time understanding exactly what people are asking. Is someone else being asked for and more warning than we have already done in these ten years in this cooperation? Or do people want to go back to the condition before we created a first and another energy package? Was it much better? We'd like to, for example. ... notthatthe EU Stateholds are relevant to this? Do we want politicians to be able to offer a tremendous discount on our energy to get a large plant built? Is that what people are asking for? Councilmen's interference with electrical power prices? It does not, however, relate to the third energy package, since the government rules apply. I reiterate, a respectable president, that I don't quite understand what people are asking for anything other than what we have on the table where we've guaranteed all the interests. There is exactly what we're about to agree with and what it is we're not about to agree with. What may now have been more discussed is just what is not in this fine package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I was kind of hoping that she wouldn't be talking about that warning. I've said what I think of him. In my mind, and I now am the lawyer, he doesn't have water or wind. It's as simple as that. This is where we're talking about the EEA. We've been joined by the EEA Committee that's published this and that. We've never been able to plant a joint EEA committee... with the fact that we specifically wish not to be subjected to this energy package. We didn't do it with an energy package alone and not with a pack of energy. I'm going to reiterate it: the situation has become one or two since the source of an energy package is that, of course, we can't rewind it. Of course, our electronic bill has become much more complex. Of course, the electricity bill is much higher, even though it may not be higher. Of course it is. We're talking about special people who have sales and others who have distributions. The more involved the market management, the more the consumer must pay. I've never realized how you can hang yourself in that there's no higher energy here. That's right. It hasn't increased, but energy bills are much higher. I wanted to see this exactly so that we'd got it black in white, with a smile on our faces: all right, Icelanders, you're geniuses, and so far, we still respect your position. We respect all of this for what you're fighting for in your little country, and you're the exception of a energy package three, like you're the exception of gas induction, in the same way that we're not running your sea resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u128	Mr. President. We will discuss this matter in the daily speech of the third pack of energy, in this conference, because of the agreement made by the directors of the administrations of the Central Party in June. As I understood that agreement, apart from the arrangement of the discussions that we have so agreed on in the field of council groups, those struggling against the introduction of the third energy package were important to have time to produce and demonstrate new evidence in the case and new information. This may have been my conclusion from my conversations with opposers. I have listened to the discussion today, as well as to what has been presented in the field. I must say that when I heard it, I was surprised to hear it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson to ask the highest. Secretary of State this morning, how he had not come in here with new information and new information. I thought it was clear that from the end of most panels in the Senate, we thought that the matter was complete and completed, but we wanted to give the opposers this opportunity to provide fresh evidence. What has happened in the past. The Foreign Affairs Committee and this discussion have not shown me any new evidence or new information. On the contrary, scholars and experts in our committee agree with themselves. Those who made essays, whether it is Arnar Þór Jónsson, who has opposed the case and has objected to it, or Skúli Magnússon, Bjarni Már Magnússon, Margrét Einarsdóttir, Ólafur Jóhannes Einarsson, and so on for so long, the scholars also agree with themselves since spring and do not consider any of the alleged dangers that have been torn up in a councilroom for so long to be real. I've heard what I've heard. Councilmen who oppose this matter specifically refer to the famous form of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson, son of Hirst. And I'm a fan of the language. paritaprevir Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson, noticed that he called them the concept of segregation in the breath of the morning. However, in a letter to the experts, after their visit to the State Department, they made it clear that the documents available are read together, i.e. Congress proposals for the State Ministers and the Senate resolution proposal for travel, industrial and innovation, as well as for the legislators of the latter, in addition to reports and other data, we say that the warnings are properly held there. It also points out and reviews in detail, as in the report, that the risk of the above is, in fact, that a sea cable without the approval of the Icelandic government, can be taken into account as persuaded by the Icelandic government in a way that these items do not take place, as well as by the bill as the highest standard. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers have submitted and we'll talk tomorrow where it is assumed that such a sea cable will never be laid without the approval of the General Assembly. Here we go. Councilmen came to say that they did not trust politicians. Councilmen for the future. I don't agree with that. I have great confidence in the U.S. Generalis, who has been here for 12 years, and I believe the World Council is the most important agency in our administration. I respect this institution and trust the future senators, if that question arises, to study this subject and to take a thought about it. I think it's interesting to listen to what's happened. Councilmen speak as if future members, as well as modern times, cannot be trusted. I feel that such language is characterized by what has been called the demarcation, which attempts to speak down democratic organizations, which are fundamental institutions in liberal democracies, and that precisely my viewpoints are protected, that politics is a key factor in protecting democracy. I've also heard reports on the fact that there is a privatization requirement in France's electricity sector based on the third energy package. The issue referred to points to the provision of a temporary water issue. It does not focus on the privatization of state companies or resources. This has been referred to in Belgium, which is also also completely incompatible with the introduction of this case and is about the lack of sufficient independence of the Belgium monitoring agency. We can have opinions about whether we want agencies to be independent or not. It is true that the third energy pack requires independence from the surveillance organisations. I think it's more beneficial than the other, not necessarily that surveillance agencies should be given the political authority, as some sounds to me. Senators want it. In any case, this case is not comparable to the introduction we address here. And tomorrow's program is on matters that are just about about to ensure that Power Institute needs independence in order to monitor its activities. I've heard here, don't remember today, that in Norway there is a legal case for a special administrative court. In fact, it is not a administrative court in Norway, but it is certainly a legal case for a local court. No, a matter they have appealed to the Norwegian government to see if the correct article of the Norwegian Constitution was used in the treatment of the Norwegian Council. I have to say that it doesn't concern us, because the Constitutions of these countries are not comparable. We do not have expeditors in our constitution, which assumes to be major or minor expedient. We can debate whether we want to see the head of a law code in a constitution and whether it should be like the Norwegian, but whatever might come out of that court will not affect the case that we discuss here and now. And it does not affect the Icelandic constitution because it is in a completely different way. The experts who have been called to ask a opinion as to whether the matter works in the Icelandic constitution have provided the answer to the fact that there is a two - sided solution, as we have wanted to see in other broad issues we have been discussing and, in fact, a far greater issue than this matter in the past. I especially refer to cases that I discussed thoroughly at the time and in terms of the expeditation of authority when it comes to monitoring the order of the financial market. After hearing a discussion, I'm not aware that new evidence or new information has come up. On the contrary, I believe the matter is, as it was in us, finished, and fully trained. This is a case that has been prepared at the Generals scene since 2010. In the preparation of the case, three members of the Parliament have discussed it, a professional committee, a foreign relations committee and a management committee. In the opinion of those committees, members of the Parliament signed each category. In a time of government led by what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, president of the Middle Party, who has led this opposition, continued to overcome the issue. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson sent some excellent memos into the Foreign Affairs Committee on the matter. What, then, causes the concern of what I and other members of the council feel about this discussion? My assessment is that the input of the third energy package gives no basis for such anxiety. I'm going through the country talking to people. I hear why people are worried, people don't like that there's no law in Iceland's Constitution of resource partnerships, regulations that we agreed on in the national law, and over 80% of the people wanted to have it. The ability to do what is right. The members of Parliament may agree that this council will complete the release of such a law, which has been published in the constitution of the Board of Management Board for several months, assuming that this national property will be underlined in the constitution? The ability to do what is right. Allied members agree to meet these concerns and thus ensure the constitution of such a sharing? That is important in the context we are discussing here. The ability to do what is right. Councilmen agree that we're setting a clearer border on land purchases in Iceland? I can also say what. Senators that I am absolutely certain that everyone in this room will hear the same concern as I do when we discuss the third energy package. People say: Wait, this country is buying land, and water rights, as they have been in national legislation. It was not surprising that one of the first matters that happened to the Allied Parliament after we became a sovereign nation was in charge of national purchases. But in recent decades and in this case, this frame, this extramarital, has been solved, and it has not been political enough to set a clearer frame. We have the most freeliest legislation in the EEA on these matters and could look to other countries, whether Denmark, Norway, or Ireland, on a clearer bound. Could we agree to discuss whether it is reasonable for water rights to conform to national rights? I did not hear the opponents of the third energy package worrying that foreign investors are investing in fifth billion in water factories. What, though, are these investors investing in? They're investing in water rights and the water resources. Hv. Senators come up here and express concern, but why don't we just get started and revise this frame? Why don't we agree on that, huh? Councilmen at the Allied Council of the Icelanders, that we adopt the new word as supreme. It has been suggested by the traveling, industrial, and innovation minister that it will be the Generals' approval of the sea cable instead of having it completely in the air, as it already was. Senator, commander. a former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, set out a reconnaissance of sea cables without the approval of any agreement? Why don't we agree to secure the role of the Generals in making such important decisions? I was in charge of changes, and there's been a lot of discussion about the uncertainty of the constitution. But we believe it is possible to introduce the case with two solid solutions, in which ESA is actually the role that ACER plays for the European Union, just as we have previously agreed on when it comes to the financial system and other major regularities. Could we agree, then, that it is proper to entitle a judicial arrangement? This, of course, leads us to the question, What is our international cooperation about? We are not to fear our sovereignty, and it will be clear when we are in international cooperation on equal terms, but it also counts that we speak clearly as to what is in our power, and we do not simply propagate the rocks to some other person who is responsible for the problems we believe are here. I believe that many of the concerns I have heard around a discussion on this subject are valid. I think the General should meet these concerns with a clearer set of laws on the resources, on land and land, and on the expeditation of authority, which are on our own. Most people have a why. Councilmen who have spoken precisely declared their support of the EEA agreement, pointing out that it proved to be a country and a nation's advantage despite many flaws. Then let us look at what we can do to meet the concerns that the public of this country has by the control of resources, since we have not been able to do as I would know. I'm a member of the Generals to agree on the issues I've been going over here and to make a huge difference to all of us and to the public in the country. I think this case is as well prepared and as ripped as I counted in spring, and I will support it on Monday when it comes to payment. I just don't think that much in this discussion is going to pass, even though there are other factors that I consider to be related to. Thus, I do not want to belittle any of those who have discussed and express their own opinion on this matter. It's normal for us to communicate, but this debate is now emptying my mind. We're supposed to finish it and continue with the work that I've described about us facing these concerns and dealing with them properly, not stirring up dust around matters that are actually not related to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u129	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the talk. I'd like to ask a simple question. On page 18. 5 of the Parliament is chapter 4.2. The first and second energy package. It puts it this way: In accordance with the adaptation text to the decision of the joint EEA committee, Iceland was defined as a low-insolent electropower system and could be applied for extended access from certain branches of the EU's second energy directive (for the separation of distribution from production and sale of electricity) as indicated. But the most important thing about this is that below it says: To date, the government has not used these conditions. Why the hell not? We're going to take advantage of this release, aren't we? Then we can stop arguing about it. Let's get a reserve from the power power and we're out of business. Then we're not arguing all the time about the same thing. We can just stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The energy was from the beginning of the EEA contract. It is true that this special status was not obtained during the induction of the first and second energy package. We have, in effect, missed that wagon. However, this was pointed to in discussions about it by the members of the left movement, a green offer, just so I mention it for the room's sake. But now we are at the point where we are implementing a three - pack of energy with clear warnings that lawyers have evaluated and that it places no obligation in the Icelandic government to connect with the European electricity system. None. That's where our decision is. I'm going to pay attention to the vast majority of the experts who have discussed that matter. We're just at the point where it doesn't mean to look in the rearview mirror, either to the last, to the last, before or to 2005, like a driving mirror. A senator is doing. Now, it is important that we handle this matter well, and I believe that this is being done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u131	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I'd also like to state that we have gas replacements. It was said here in a speech chair that we were not producing natural gas, which is wrong. In fact, the estimate we produce on Eelphensi is more than part of natural gas. This is made clear on the website of village. That's where we're burning excess gas. We'll use some of it on the truck fleet, but there's a 600°C oven that's being fueled by the Eelfun by not using this gas. It was on the news not so long ago and the burner was shown. That's why I say, "We have an exception from gas." Why in God's name we don't say: The first and second energy package is enough, now we get an extra. We are not implementing a common European energy package, a cross-country between countries. We don't have it. We don't have to argue about it here or pick it up. We're just supposed to say, "We're gonna get an exception just like we did with the gas."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u132	Mr. President. We're members of the EEA Convention. By becoming members of the EEA Convention, we work on a certain kind of work ethic. As I mentioned earlier, the third pack of energy has been treated at the council since 2010 when it first arrived on the table. The next winter will be the so - called pure energy package for the treatment of the council. Of course, we can, and that's what I've said in the chair several times, done better in keeping things going on with the EEA. I have attended many meetings and discussed these matters extensively, e.g. during the induction of the financial order I mentioned earlier and in most respects considered to be materially good, but was concerned with administrative matters. But it is important that we stay and stay at the council when things are discussed at the right time. That's certainly the procedure of the EEA deal. We can have opinions about whether we view them as good or bad, but that is how this system has worked. We will need to discuss how we work according to it and whether we are content with it. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a lot more we can do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u133	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister before the talk and would like to say at the outset that some of the things she listed as important things are important to me, I can say very well. In particular, I'd like to mention the funeral business, and we're not going to be caught in it. I noticed that the highest. The minister read from their letter to the two relatives of Friðrik, Fridik's Friðriksson, Hirst, and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, of the 19th August. This letter confirms that they believe that the legal manager was sufficiently introduced. I allow me to draw attention to the fact that they do not say anything about its national worth. I have said it to Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, in my speech this morning, that he has no national rights. Five Supreme Court judges have agreed with that and a district judge, all chosen men. Has the highest. Is it possible for the prime minister to have a legal opinion that confirms that this legal committee has national rights? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because he specifically mentioned Hirst's letter to the Watch Stefán Society in August, I feel that it is right to quote a report I have previously quoted in this pontu, which is the one they sent to the council in April. They say, first of all, there is no legal question about it, and it fundamentally establishes that this way is in harmony with a constitution. In their opinion, that fact is most important and is in line with the opinion as a matter of course. A senator turned into a subject of publicity. They also review both ways of dealing with the pros and cons. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator felt that the way the government had chosen was the second best way. That's his word. They point to this in their letter that neither way is faultless. That is in view of the subject and the point. Given the content and content of the case that has been carefully reviewed, we considered this way completely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u135	Mr. President. I'm sorry, I have to correct the highest. Prime Minister. The next best way is not my word. The second best way is by the words of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, at a meeting of the 19th August State Department. when he proposed that their main proposal on the case was to handle the case before the joint committee. V.E.G. From April 10, the prime minister read from their letter to the minister of foreign affairs. If you read further, it can be seen that they are concerned that the legal person could become the source of a contract breaker. They discuss it in this letter that there is a possibility but then review some of the factors that they feel are less likely to do so. But the possibility is clearly in their mind. In their opinions, they take up their own initiatives on the possibility of contract violations and damages. This is what they do on page 19. 35, footnote 62. Hence, it must be concluded that unless we are willing to pay for it in the form of damages, we may have nothing to say whether this is the land's coast. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. If he is merely looking to the object of commitment of the Icelanders to take a sea cable and get a contract break if it is rejected from what I thought was a sharp one. A senator is to mention, of course, we have opinions and articles and opinions from Skúli Magnússon, Bjarni, Margrét Einarsdóttir, who all believe is totally in the hands of the Icelandic government whether or not there will be a sea cable, a government I trust, as I crossed the river, whether it is a member of the council of the day or the future. I'd also like to say that in a letter from Hirst Motorsson and Friðrik Friðriksson of April, the fact that such a link would be made only with the approval of the Council is very unlikely that the ESA will make comments on this route, as well as to say that neither way is unprovable. Now I do not sit with the State Department and state that I thought it was. A senator would be using his words when I listened to him this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u137	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister's talk. It was a mistake to me, but one thing I must correct, that was the reason of the contract here at the end of the council. To a large extent, they were also for the return of government officials on vacations. There was more to this than new information to be taken care of. But that is not all today. The introduction of the third energy package has been through an overhauling tone in the supporters of the current energy package to talk about the lack of new developments in the situation. True, details have been mentioned in earlier stages. But I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister of the question, " Do I really experience it, so that nothing new has happened in this case for the entire summer? ' In particular, I would like to refer to a discussion of possible violations of treaties and the possibility of harmonization could be the case as a result of our violation of the four EU freedom laws. Of course, these things were mentioned, but I think it's a very harsh approach to new information if the depth of the discussion that took place in the summer did not come up with anything new in these materials. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u138	Mr. President. I must first make a remark to a word. A senator said that I or someone else wanted to go on vacation. I don't think it's on a very high level, so I'm telling you honestly. On account of those who discussed this matter as much as possible in the summer, they felt that not all information was provided and it was important to give the matter more time. That was the word. I don't think this is to raise this conversation, if I may be completely honest, Mr. President. Hv. A candidate brings up the possibility of a contract break, and it is true that they were discussed in the previous stages, and they have been discussed as if a number of other views related to the third energy package. What I pointed to in my speech - and why. A senator thinks I'm judgmental, and no doubt I am - I don't see that the scholars who have just discussed that matter changed their view of the matter. No doubt this has deepened the discussion for someone, but I believe most of the facts were in existence and different views in the past summer or spring. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u139	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. The other thing I wanted to come in here today is what it takes to think of the highest. A prime minister to justify using what has been called a later security inhibitor, as stated at 102 C.E. The EEA Convention? We were in that position, Icelandic people, up to 26. The constitution was not new for quite a long time, but it has happened a few times. It was applied first to the so - called media law. I'd like to hear the highest perspective. Prime Minister about 102. ... let us use the word "security inhibitor, " which appears to be the interpretation of the existing government classes of this law. I can't see in itself that they carry such things, but there are, of course, different interpretations. What does she see in her mind the right motive for using 102? par.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u140	Mr. President. Of course, I do not rule out that this article will ever be used as a sharp one. A senator asks. It is difficult to say what might be considered the right motive. I think it's always a matter of opinion, and it needs to be known to me that there's more to this than the subject we discuss here before that I don't think any of these things in him that called it. However, such a situation may not be excluded. What I would like to say, however, and I mentioned before in my reply to the answer to the why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, is that I believe this case also requires that we consider the treatment. Here, members of the Parliament have criticized earlier court treatments on the part of the Generals, on the part of the different committees of the Generals. Is it not called upon to consider her, whether we are content with the way we have been treated as members of the council? That's what we've been doing here, as I pointed out, for nine years with different governments, one five that counts to me, and different councils. I explained that members of all categories signed the opinion of these committees at the time. [[The president calls.]] If we think something went wrong there, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u141	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Although I do not fully agree with it, the prime minister for a fine talk. The minister said that we should not fear our sovereignty. That's where I completely agree with her. But I'm not fearless today, I have to admit it, and there this third energy package comes in. I'd like to ask the minister, because she spoke of anything new going on. But in the news, even the minister mentioned Belgium's news, news from France, but she said she didn't worry about it, but I do. It tells you that the European Commission has told you that the implementation of two Regulations in the energy package for them, No. 72 and 73, have not been carried out correctly. How can the minister not worry that the same thing could happen here? I'm gonna ask her another question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Why am I not worried? Because I think we're doing the right thing. I referred earlier when I tore this case into a bill at the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation, which are being proposed for the energy monitoring of the Energy Agency by further clarifying the role and independence of the Power Agency and providing additional resources for the implementation of the legislation. That is what has been made to comment on from the European Union regarding Belgian governments. I just can't see the similarity with the case and the situation in this situation. However, there is always a considerable number of such treaties, hundreds of them. Of course, it's part of this cooperation everything, we have a consistent rule of action in the objects under the EEA Convention and, of course, there's interpretation issues and differences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u143	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to come back to the tremendous interest that investors seem to have today to build windmills here. There are about 86 mills in the pipes, including and in the valley of Garps, and in the valley of Salmon; and in the valley of the sun, and in the valley of Salmon. I'm surprised because the price of electrical energy is not high in this country that it was profitable for humans to go into such massive production. Can the minister not link this to seeing hope in the investments? They would only invest if they saw money in the possibility of rising electrical prices. Isn't there a connection? And just as respect for electricity increase -- I put it in the context of a fish's values, that we could do much more for our production language in electricity if we were to finish up at home, what should I say, not just in the big business, but in vegetable production and other things so that we don't have the risk that electrical prices would go up too much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It's a big deal he's dealing with here. Let's start with the efficiency of wind power. I agree with what. A senator says we should discuss the future in terms of the use of wind power. I think it may have a lot of potential for producing green energy in a way that is irreversible in comparison with, for example, The great hydro-engineers. Of course, we need to discuss this at a council Hall. We've got microinvasion laws, they're 12 years old. They are based on 10 megawatts, which means that the activaters under 10 megawatts do not follow the standard frame process. Should we discuss whether there is a basis for change? Is there any benefit in selling into the system? Definitely, not because of the third energy package, but because we know that there will be demand for electricity, e.g. in the power exchange that lies ahead. Eventually, there was trouble. A senator with good advice on food production. That's where I think we're going. A senator, because we've discussed this before, would agree completely. Now it's in Iceland's food policy modeling, and I hope it will increase its emphasis on food production at home, so we can, in turn, be enough of ourselves. We can do so much better. But again, that's what I think we can do even though we accept the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u145	Mr. President. I intend to provide a small overview of the government's legal structure for this matter. It was early in spring that there was a great deal of opposition within the governments due to the introduction of the third EU energy package. When it was presented within the parties, a solid solidarity was reached. Why? Because these directives were legally intended to be implemented by the European Union. That was key. At first it didn't look too bad, though the average and loyal senator took the bait, so to speak, as in the salmon, that it was a cocktail. The legal guardian was to perform the task of preventing certain regulations in the regulations that scholars had suggested could be in conflict with the constitution and the special provision of the office of authority for the European Union's superior institutions from being active at its introduction. It should be remembered that this solution to the legal judgment the government made was inferior to the option proposed by two of the government's multi-country opinions and had not received any publicity or special investigation. And the other administrations of the government, well to mean, have not investigated this way. Their opinion came before this legal court in their respect of two cultures. The only person who has discussed this from these opinions is Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son. He said at a meeting when he was asked about the legal warning and its value that he was only at home. It also caught the attention of the highest level. The prime minister could not reason with any legal opinion claiming to have any value of national rights, for the scribes considered it to be an unprovable way, so clearly revealed. There's a lot to tell us about May 15th. when asked where to find this warning. The answers came from many, misleading, and all kinds of people. I already listed eleven, there may be more. Let us briefly consider some of these responses to those supporters of the energy package on where the legal warning was to be found. This is mainly from 14th, 15th, and 20th of May. The first suggestion was that the warning was to be found in a joint sense like the European Commission of Energy and Iceland's Foreign Minister from 20 March 2018 on Iceland's special status as an island. No one today claims that this is something that has a national value. Nobody. The next suggestion was that the warning was found in the EFTA declaration from May 8, 2019, that there was no cable between Iceland and Europe. No one today seriously claims that this resolution has any national value. A third statement by members of the Generals was that the warning was found in the bill of the Supreme Court. A industrial minister to change electricity laws, which states that the link between the power system and other countries depends on government policy. Mr. President. If government policy in the future is to reject sea cables, we may have to face contract violations similar to those we lost because of our unhindered meat and cost the Icelandic state a fortune and open the Icelandic market to these lips in opposition to the expressed wishes of the government. It is not as if this potential scenario should surprise anyone, because the same government opinion has shown that such a situation might be difficult for Iceland. This may result from the magnitude that no one wants to think about. A fourth supposition by the Council of Congress was that a paper might be made on the basis of the synonym itself. No one today claims that a word in a synopsis is of any value to national rights. The fifth point involved the word as quickly as possible. A senator said that these regulations would be revised if Iceland were to be linked to other countries. Yeah, you see? So we're going to go for a change in the European Law if there's a cable set. I haven't heard anyone else say that. I could give you more examples and have them here. But the conclusion is that the government and the Generals have not been able to explain, either to us or to the public, what commitment we are making by accepting this rule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u146	A respectable president. Now I'm not a board of directors, as it is, but I still found it really easy to find this warning in the Senate documents, just go into the side room and pull up one document and open it right in front of you. At the same time, members of the Central Party were groping that they did not find this warning. They were just here in the side room and on the Internet, everywhere people could open the document and read. Very simple. I think it's very important to remember when it comes to warning, what they're supposed to be. It's 7th, 8 and 9th. in Directive 713, rather than 714, which discuss the authority of the ESA to make binding decisions. It lists when they can make binding decisions. It's decided that it's only about decision-making between countries, i.e. The cable, nothing about the local market or anything. As long as there is no sea cable, there is nothing that ESAs can do to make binding decisions about anything here in terms of electricity that goes from or to Iceland. Nothing. As a result, these warning agents have been put forward meaningless earlier than a sea cable. That's how they're at home. There's nothing more complicated than that. I find it strange, therefore, to throw up some international justice back and forth because it is also quite clear that it is the General, in the end, that has everything to say whether there is a sea cable or not. However, the chiefs are found simply in Parliamentary documents and have been found there since the decision was made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. He says the guards were always there. We've been asking where they were. We have received many answers, many answers, many kinds of answers. Which says what? What does this tell us when we received these answers in May? What does it tell us that in the second word, it claims that the matter had an extremely thorough inspection and that all stones had been rolled over, but so when asked simply questions, as follows: Where is this legal requirement? When that is the case, there are mild - tempered responses from government officials. Where can this legal warning be found? Has a what? A senator propose? Would he like to add the list? Of course, whatever matters most is - whoever he is wherever he is - whatever his value. I've read that opinion. I know exactly what the lead stuff is. Of course, it's a sea cable to Iceland and that we get to control it ourselves. But what is the form? When he appears and however he appears, does his design mean that there is a national value? That's the point. I haven't heard anyone say that with good reason it means anything. Men have pointed to things, of course, I've heard them, declarations and so on. There are all kinds of values, political values. But is that national or national? Are we protected from damage claims and treaties? No, it's what the advisors say for themselves. The receivers on which the board is based.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u148	A respectable president. I was sitting in a council hall asking about the warnings one day in May, and I saw people coming here, walking back and forth, talking, and pulling up their phone and looking it up. And then came a whisk. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, reminds me, and simply read up on this notice, just found them right away. Then the so - called news came to people, and they began to ask, " Wait, were they talking about it? ' Were they talking about the other one? Yes, it's right here, please. We got the premonitions. It's not too complicated. When these terms are spoken of nationally and treatfully, there is evidence that, in the end, there is a general council to decide whether a cable will be laid or not. There is no contract or anything that can be broken until at least It's been through here. Thereafter, there are all kinds of auctiones and thus, as some expectations may arise about things that could be violated. It is very clear, and it has been made clear in the discussion that nothing is moving here until it occurs on the land of consultation, which is defined in the energy package, which is a ground for consultation between countries where a connection is formed. All the countries in that area of consultation need to be signed for a link between them. It is not until someone has some sort of program for a connection to be established, which is then used in how to implement it. There's no individual person who has no right to come and say, "I know you don't have a plan that there's going to be a string between you, but I'm going to lay it down anyway. I don't know what national value has to do with one case until after the Council has decided not to place a cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, yes, news came, didn't quite know what was being asked. That is understandable, and there is nothing unusual about it. What we're simply saying: We asked simple questions on which the matter really is based, i.e. The legal advance that led to the majority of the council members became involved. We asked: "Where are they? In what form? What material and what value do they have? We haven't had any answers yet. It is this time at the end of August. We have not yet received answers to their national rights. With the permission of the President, I'm going to read from the opinion of lawyers Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst, on page 20. 35: However, do not forget to reject the Power Agency's application by a company in the context of that question - i.e. to link with the sea cable -----student of the company to ESA with a lawsuit that could end up in a contract code against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. We're worried about this, and we're gonna ask, "Keep the warnings?" [[Foreground on: Yes.]] We're waiting for you. It doesn't mean anything to say yes. It must be explained and reasoned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u150	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason wishes to stay here and ask a great deal of evidence for support. Then I'd like to ask for support from what happened. A senator, because I have not heard very clear evidence from the bottom of my head. A member of the Parliament that the third energy pack covers the fix of a sea cable or the obligation of the Icelandic state to do so. Because that's what the third energy package is not. I'd like to get an opinion. A senator of the experts who have been present, both in speech and in a publication, who are experts in national rights, marine rights, and European rights, and have noted that the word of the Regulation that we address here should not be legalized by national rights, marine rights, or European rights so that the United States puts an allotment to or from Iceland to the European Union. Also, I would like to wish for it. A senator seriously argues what kind of damage he is talking about, referring to speeches that the Icelandic state will face if the United States refuses to place a sea cable between Iceland and European Union. What harm can be done? On what are they based? I'd like to hear a good argument from your mouth. A senator's turn to make such a statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for her counter-sponsored response. She wanted to convince me if the third energy pack was running through a sea cable, I heard her say. The third energy pack is a link between countries. It deals with who controls it and sets up an organization in Europe that supervises the procedure. Reckon duty. What is the subject of harmonization? There is a simple answer. We've, unfortunately, had to contend with decisions for not complying with European rules about unheated meat. We have received judgments and judgments because we are not following the European Union's rules. It is very similar in many respects. These judgments have fallen upon us. Of course, we can. Senator, go to the Cheflavor airport and stop unheated meat there. I'm sure we can go there and stop it if it was coming here. We could simply say, "No frozen meat here. " Send it back. What, then, would come out of nowhere? We'd get a sabbatical. As long as we were to stop, we'd have a sabbatical. We've got her. That's exactly what we're dealing with, and we're doing it right now, a long time later. This is exactly the same situation as the government's opinions have been to point out, as I read and don't intend to read again, that we can, of course, deny that here comes a ship with a cable that's going to set him up at the shores of the country. [[The president calls.]] We could just say no. But what would replace it? We'd be exposed to treaties and damages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u152	Thank you. A senator for the answer. But I still haven't figured out exactly why we should get ourselves damages because of something we're not required to do. Why would anyone be able to take a damage account against the Icelandic State because of what the Icelandic state cannot do, such as To lay a cable? Why and on what should this damage be based? At what, what. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u153	Mr. President. The short answer is that we do not make the rules properly and do not follow them. In this way, human reformers are created, that they do not comply with treaties or laws and regulations. [[Up front.]] If we produce this energy directive in the European Union, we are committed. If there's any laws here that we put, which you call warning that can be found somewhere, and they're against the rule, it's useless. That's what we're asking, and it's your answer. It's not for us to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u154	Listen to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u155	You are to answer our questions. It's not my place to answer what you're asking me. I'm asking, where are the legal warnings? More important, what is their national value?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u156	Listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u157	It is your answer, and the answer has not come to this question. [[The point is, the experts have...]] And it's not just me that asks, the whole nation is asking this question: What is Iceland's position? You have not stood up to explain this matter to the people. You have not been in it. The case is to be run through, it's to go under, go through the case, and don't explain it fully to the people. [[Up front.]] You have not explained to us the value of the legal premise is that of national rights. You haven't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u158	The wine contract. Listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u159	Mr. President. We meet here these two days at the end of August to the final issue of any heat that has been called a three - pack of energy. This summer has been a significant summer, one of the best, at least here on this corner of the country, for many years. Although the debate over the energy package took some space, it has to be said as it is that nothing new has been made that has not been driven by the major laws of the country and other experts, both on Iceland's Constitution and on the EEA Treaty itself. It's been a long time since, more than ten years, that energy package, the third in a row, saw the day. In fact, some of it has been taken into the laws and regulations of the past, leading even those most fighting against it today. What, then, is involved in the synopsis and laws discussed during the two days? Yes, in general, the interests of consumers will be better protected by an independent and stronger Icelandic Power Institute and then, in contrast with the fact that, unlike today, there will not be an electrical drive to Iceland without the Allied Council making a special decision outside of the rights that the Iceland has, of course, through the marine covenant that gives us Iceland the full control of land base and land space. Since the last of the cases, more than a year ago, things have changed. All the questions about sovereignty and the possible exercise of sovereignty have been answered by the actions of the government. The Executive Minister and Energy Director of the European Union have signed a joint declaration confirming the understanding of the European Community that the rules of the common European energy market are not valid here because we are not connected. What's more, this statement shows that although we were linked by an electronic cord, Iceland would still have an isolated energy system intact as an island. Furthermore, a statement by the EFTA countries has been made to the same substance that the EU representatives of the joint EEA did not object. On the one hand, the Minister's declaration is political and, on the other, a booking of the Common EEA Committee, nationally valid according to Article 31. The wine contract. In addition, there is a former bill that we will discuss tomorrow that ensures that the decision for an electronic transponder will only be taken at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. So, what's it all about? What is the most aggressive opposition that has been brought about by one category at a convention and a newspaper in town? Yes, it is about digging in the same murky water that is most popular in many parts of the world and that involves bringing the citizens together to power. Those who have struggled against the energy package have been driven from half - truths in their language, with all the so - called arguments being turned back when they have been presented. It's about the 11th anniversary of the crash. We are still struggling to heal the large wound they left and are characterized by a lack of trust. Everybody feels it. There will be no healing, and trust will not be restored by running after unscrupulous claims made by people who have the sole policy list of civil conflicts, preferably to cover up their own problems. We are not at the Allied Council of Iceland to limit the opportunity of future generations. Nor are we at the General Assembly to make sense of them. We are the kinstos to provide greater opportunities, larger opportunities for the future, and it has been found that the future is usually more reliable than the past. There has always been a progressive and international class, and being international is having strong ties to neighboring people through alliances and agreements. I name the Council of the North and the Northern Union. I mention NATO, the European Economic Convention, and a number of vacation contracts with nations all over the world. I hear that many people are beginning to fear, even scorn, this stamp, internationally acceptable. They consider it to be an act of authority and subjugation. They must be looked to as far as from the land mines, like all the nations, have lived in a community among other nations, with varying degrees of closeness and encouragement. We have been under the kings of Norway and Denmark, nations that today are our most important friends and partners. All intelligent people must realize how important the European Economic Convention is to Iceland. We are a worldwide society that will have everything to do with good relations with its business nations. International treats are important to all of us. Let's just look at the oceanbed with our very important work at sea and land. Let's watch the technical field, Marel, 3X, Assur. Let's watch the innovation companies, Kercis at Issafjord, CCP here in Reykjavík, agriculture, energy companies, industry, creative branches, the international tourism. What would Icelandic politicians have to fight if not for the next generation of Icelanders to see their best in living and working in this beautiful country, all over the country, and through international treaties to put their product on the world's market? With us Icelanders standing in 2019 a free and sovereign nation, we can lift our heads up, a nation that could be said to have an influence in the world far beyond what is normal if it were based on an appeal number. More than a century ago, most of the situation has been achieved by the advancement and tremendous influence of the group's modern society. This situation has not been achieved by sitting at home, behind a locked door, but because we have the guts to be in international cooperation, because we do not flee the government of this country. We will not flee when it comes to fighting for the nation's interests. In politics it is important to know when to take the fight and when not to take the fight. The story of advancement proves that we have always had the wisdom to make balanced decisions rather than beat ourselves when others detract from us. It takes courage to take care of the overall interests of Iceland. Strong bones are needed to sit under the insurrections and even the detestable things that have been done in the past few months. It's like the farm stand back in the day. There were many occasions for fighting when some fighters offered such a dance. However, there is not always a need to take part in that fight. They don't give back anything. This government represents the national global interests of the nation and takes the fight that needs to be taken. It is important when it comes to Iceland's resources to ensure its full control over the nation. It is important that we take care of the entire organization's interests soon and long ago. It is also important that we make decisions about the interests of the people, that we do not enter the politics of anger, the politics of fear, and make them our legal home, and our defense council. After the conflict between this council, it must be clear that we need to put far more emphasis on Iceland's interests on the entire EEA contract. An energy pack of three appeared on the horizon more than ten years ago, and it was totally unusual that the matter did not enter general debate until last year. It is also serious how the import of meat was maintained at the time. If you come to work at the EEA Convention for Iceland, you must be absolutely aware that Iceland's interests are going beyond the bargaining table. It is then Icelandic politics to better define Iceland's rich interests and to beat a clean and stronger tone in the interest department. One of the positive things that the last month's discussion should teach us and we should take ourselves out of it is that we must be more cruel in the early stages of each situation that arises in the EEA Convention, and we become small because of setting priorities for the requirements and focusing on the interests of our resources. In other words: Since the first day of discussion, to form an energy pack of four, the effects must be analysed and given Icelandic interests, including with a review of existing warnings with the books in the first degree of speech. The government has put increased power and resources in order to be more effective in early phase interests. How, though, have we in the government class reached this point? Yes, we've listened to people's concerns. We've called experts. We've been listening to opinions. We've come to a conclusion. Iceland's interests are guaranteed by warnings and actions written on the advice given by key experts, taking into account the concerns of the community, not the warnings placed alone by the Allied Council, but the two letters received in spring, from EFTA and the European Union energy manager, both political and nationally valid according to the Vienna Convention. Such statements are binding. This has led to a number of decisions that experts have testified to the foreign - language committee. Iceland is an ideal state. No sea cables will be set, activated, or taken for several activities without the entrance of the Icelandic government. By the actions of the government, it will be even more difficult than it will be to form now. There is no mention of the duty of the Icelanders in a pack of energy to lay a cable. It has been driven many times. This is not the case. There is no violation of the four freedoms if the Icelandic government refuses to impose a cord here. The four freedoms are about business barriers. It is not a business obstacle to refusing to build monuments. We have our own rule, our ocean contract, our organizational laws, our own decision-making society's rights and after tomorrow a bill in which the Council makes the decision, and much more. It is not being handed over to foreign institutions through the induction of a pack of three energy. The EFTA participation is based on the two supporting systems. As indicated by a three - pack energy pack, there is also no violation of a constitution, according to the opinion of all our leading experts, including those who had doubts at first, just as we reach out. That's why we stopped and found ways to secure Iceland's interests, sovereignty and control over the resources of our country, as well as the energy resource, which is one of our most important resources for the long future. I've been listening to the discussion all day, and I've been watching the discussion this summer. There has been nothing changed since spring's review of the Foreign Affairs Committee, except what these key elements have become even clearer than before. Hence, the majority opinion of the State Department is still valid. It says in its second last paragraph, by permission of a president: ▪ Specific declarations have political and national significance. In an announcement to the EFTA office on the reduction of administrative information, both the Commission's declaration of energy to the EU Commission and the secretary of state from March 20 will be specifically referred to. and to the joint declaration of the EFTA countries in the EEA, given on May 8 of the joint EEA committee. This includes documenting the common understanding of all parties that Iceland still has full control over its energy resources. When this formal letter goes unconcerned, there is yet another confirmation in our language. However, I have full insight into the concern of many people of the country, especially in the light of the development of world affairs, where we have seen a greater dissatisfaction of wealth in which they are richer and more efficient, while others are less effective. One form of publication here is a purchase of rich people, especially foreign ones, in Iceland. Many people have discussed this in connection with a pack of three energy, which, of course, is not related to it. This is where we ourselves are. We haven't had any luck, at least not up to this point, to put a rule on land, and thereby revise the legislation established 15 years ago and open up every portal and take out all the obstacles. However, the government intends to restore such rules. Another factor that many discuss with energy packs three is that there is nothing to do with a pack of three energy, but there is a wide range of distribution costs for electricity in the country and rising costs for distribution, especially in rural areas. Of course, since the resource is largely owned by the public, all the population should sit at the same level when it comes to distribution costs. That's equal. But the current arrangement is not due to an energy package of one or two. It is an Icelandic law that we can establish for ourselves, and the present government intends to change. We can also set a provision for the nation's sharing of resources to further ensure this. That is how much is discussed in connection with a pack of three energy that has nothing to do with it, but it is a very important matter that we need to set up on the program, here at the Parliament to complete over the next few weeks, months, misses. That's what we're doing for the government. We're going to take these issues because they're in our own hands, they're not the European Union or the energy package three or the EEA deal, they're in our hands. We're going to make a change to the public in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u160	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the speech I understand is his first talk on this big and important matter in this council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u161	Not by quantity, but by quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u162	V.E.G. In his speech, a minister spoke about the steps of the forward party. Then you should think back on them. From the autumn Summit of the House of Tendelication Day 17,◯18. November 2018 says, with the permission of a president: The richness of the country is one of the most important factors. The head management of the Progress Party takes the importance of all energy decisions being made in the hands of Icelanders and reminds them that Iceland's Constitution does not allow the expansion of government to be given to foreign institutions. The situation in Iceland is far different from that of the European Union's fundamental energy legislation and it is therefore unwise to implement that rule here. It's unwise to introduce a rule here, according to theizers at a midterm meeting in November 2018. It has no connection with the EU energy market, and the move team feels that this relationship does not serve the national interests. Therefore, the third energy pack induction should be given as a separate number. Now I'm interested in getting an answer from the highest. Minister to the question of why the council has fallen from that wise course and the conclusions of the forwarding party. I know many fine candidates who are wise, and the conclusion is that. What is responsible for this change, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u163	A respectable president. I am not surprised by the question, since a member of the Central Party and most of his members have turned aside from all the facts set out here. So the question of why we've turned aside when we haven't turned back from something is of no surprise to me. In my speech, I said that we had stayed a year ago, last fall, because we were worried that it would be certain that exactly what is being said in this fine conclusion from the Specialist Summit, which was held in Smelven's last fall. That's what she does, and I'm going to end with my answer. A senator by referring to the experts whom the members of the Central Party have usually used as a villain in his case, then Stefánsson Pálsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, in a letter they sent from them after their visit to the State Department, by permission of a president: If available documents are read together, i.e. Congress proposals for the State Ministers and the Senate resolution proposal for travel, industrial and innovation, as well as for the legislators of the latter, as well as for the reports and other evidence, we believe that the warnings there are properly held there, in other words, to the decisions and conclusions that we the candidates agreed on at the centres meeting we have held all the way to finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u164	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers respond and hope that he has managed to persuade his party. But I have heard of other things, that there is great dissatisfaction with that decision of the parish Party, i.e. The Party of Congress, to violate this resolution. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned in his talk about agriculture. He is an ex-grienvironmental minister and comes from a large agricultural region, including agrienvironmental region. has a lot of gardening, as it were. In that case, it would be wise to conclude that it is not only home in the country that needs energy prices to increase no more than it already has, and I have traced higher levels of energy inputs one and two. There are also numbers of companies whose business depends on maintaining the electricity prices and gardening farmers among those who need high energy for breeding. Today, there are about 30% of the cost of operating horticultures due to the purchase of electricity. Based on what is reported from the Chairman of the Union Gardens Farmers, gardens will fall from Iceland in the form it is in place of the approved third energy package followed by a navigator. This is from the Chairman of the Union Garden Prayer, so I want to ask the highest. Minister, former agricultural minister, Minister of Gardening Affairs at the time, whether or not he is concerned about the garden farmers' attitude toward the approved energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u165	Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I agree with what. A member of the community is concerned that in the past winter, this statement has been issued by a member of the community that even the wisest men like my friend Gunnar Þorgeirsson, the chairman of the gardeners, have even made this declaration appear to be quite controversial as to whether these packages have increased prices or even dropped. I know why. A senator has reasoned on this, and if so, he has reasoned in unique examples with the HS hosts, but the fact is, and if so. A senator would have listened to my speech, and he would have heard that it is Icelandic law. It is mainly the cost of distribution that has increased in Iceland. In fact, we've achieved saving, or we've used less energy, if I recall correctly, the use of 25,000 electric cars. They have become 3,500, so we have a substantial amount of energy that the homes in the country have saved by keeping an energy package and two receiving more efficient electronic devices that use less energy. Energy has increased, like many other factors, the highest cost of distribution, which is Icelandic law. It is not against the energy package, not the Norwegian, the European Union, or anyone else. That we ourselves are to blame. We have had an arrangement for gardening that we have reimbursed up to 95% of the dispersal cost because there is no currency for those big users of electricity. Shall we take a look at it, please? Senator? That's what I'm talking about. Senators and other senators ready to come with me to wonder how we can provide stronger support for food production based on electricity consumption in gardening by having a normal currency for these parties, perhaps ensuring a normal payment on the cost of distribution? The fact is, they really pay enough for the cost of getting the electricity to themselves, they just use a lot more and it's not the fair fee we have, that's why the state has gone out on refunds. [[The president calls.]] It's Icelandic law. Senator, this has nothing to do with the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u166	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and welcome him to the discussion. That's one of the things I cut off in the talk. A minister earlier, who was similar to the one mentioned in a sermon. Minister of state at the beginning of the discussion today. There was a list of more and less the same companies as the highest. The minister of state seemed to want to have trouble if the third energy package was not approved and the same list was in the speech at the highest. Secretary of transportation and rural government just now, including There were Marel, 3X, Kercis, and some others. I just want to ask you directly about this: Is that what you think? Minister to an enterprise comparable to this, which builds its main outlets in exports, will not bring third energy package into force? I just wanted this thing done if there was a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u167	Mr. President. I thank the senator for an excellent response that gives me the opportunity to confess to me one crime. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has passed me this morning. I think it's the only speech I missed, so I didn't hear when he listed these companies. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened carefully after my speech, but I was not talking about it. I was talking about these companies running around the world because we had international contracts, because we had an active deal with a lot of countries, including them. The European Economic Area and Free Trade Treaty Convention and normal contact with as many people as possible. I just pointed out that many of these matters are important, to make up at Kercis's office in Iceland and other larger companies who have enjoyed the worldwide campaign that Iceland has a number of vacation contracts and has the most useful contract, the European Economic Area and the market that it offers. Of course, it is also true that the products of all these enterprises, which are largely based on technical solutions, fall under the standards set on these markets and are therefore easier to go through. Similarly, they have to buy devices from others who are also standardized, which include them. has caused them to use less electricity, and therefore they are more economically used for businesses in the country. I was just pointing it out, I didn't have any threats or panics that this would have something particularly bad for some company in the country. I was just saying specifically that it is important that we be ready to defend the position we have achieved over a long time, by making business deals with a lot of countries. It's important for Iceland to continue that course. [[The president calls.]] It holds the future for the future generations of Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u168	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to have that attitude at its height. Ministers show here that a three - pack energy pack will make no profit. I agree that, of course, a company like this needs to move forward internationally, and I don't expect to go to the highest. A minister is suggesting that standard markings, CE markings and so on, are in any confusion if a third energy package is not introduced. That's exactly what I'd like to say later, and I'd like to use it to ask the highest question. The secretary of transportation and rural management, the chairman of the Mission Party - which, in the first, answered so well over the importance of international agreements and how a company can bend within the agreements we are in - how the charge that the Icelandic government conducts through the induction of the third energy package rhymes with the view of having full control over cross-border transport when it is said in part of the package that we're going to clear up the way of the political and technical barriers for energy transport across the borders. What does that cylinder in the energy package mean in view of the highest level? Minister, that we are under the influence of removing technical and political barriers to the transfer of electrical energy across borders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u169	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is here witnessing to the words of a pack of three energy. They are similar to those contained in a pack of two energy, and they have no legal value, as has been observed by experts for the State Department. I think we should be careful that these words are often spoken. I think it would be better for us in the early years, when we were initiating the EEA Convention, to open Iceland legislation more carefully, in order to form a global purchase, even in the energy business, as well as some of the other sectors that have come in our back, like the import of raw meat. I think we should have looked further and more closely to secure our own interests, should have been more cruel to put in advance. I've heard members of the Central Party compare the raw meat to this case. It's far-real because they had no prior notice, at best, the home-to-be in this room as law and rules, but had never been able to record them anywhere else, much less by a statement made by the highest man, the energy manager, or by the joint EEA committee using the EFTA Protocol there. It's just all we have today is to form a picture of it. I think we should be careful that we are removing all kinds of obstacles because number one, two and three are supposed to protect our interests in Iceland. The interests of our Icelanders are generally closely related to the resources of our country, and that is exactly what the government and the government groups are doing in this energy package. We're guarding the interests of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u170	A respectable president. As has been noted, discussions about this matter have become very long, and I understand that it has now become the longest in the history of the council. It might be reasoned that by getting involved in the discussion at this point, people would be carrying in the bank of the stream, but I have chosen to take advantage of the opportunity to put some words into the discussion, although the matter may have been brought up materially by a foreign minister and, in part, by an industrial minister regarding the material that will be held at the council tomorrow. I'd like to focus on factors that include... The church treatment, although I intend to deal with several other factors on the way that I feel are of great importance to the end of the discussion. I'd like to say at the outset that I've long been studying the rules of procedure that the Council has taken in the treatment of EEA affairs here at the council. I happened to accidentally encounter an old article following me from 2006 where I drew attention to the importance of the creation of the council as an independent assessment of national commitments and the introduction of the EEAs when they come here to treat them. Then I would also like to mention that on October 8, 2008, a report by the State Department was published, at the time I was chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, on the arrangement of the European Parliament treatment. The report identifies several key findings, including those found at the top of this issue. that, in accordance with the recent years, there have been almost no information received on the case of the proposal or protest in the EEA for years, that a number of EU initiatives, directives, and regulations have been taken into the EEA Convention without guarantee that their existence in the European Commission, or that it was to be introduced at the EEA Convention as well as that the role of the World Congress in the implementation of the Treaty, would have been reduced by the years. In certain cases, the work of the EEA at the Council would have become a formality. These were very serious comments, and it was not for no reason that this report was compiled. Rather, it was my experience as president of the State Department. For this reason, as we have been killed on this occasion, we made significant changes in the activities of these matters from then on. New rules were not everything that needed to be negotiated. It simply had to follow the rules that had been established and had not been followed and then to sharpen other activities. This work has continued, and I know that the current Foreign Affairs Committee has still been tightened by the rules now, for example. on the point that men do not bring in a suit but then sneak in other changes not related to Directives or regulations and say: This is part of our contract commitments in the EEA, but they want to get things clear. Of course, there is in itself a small point next to the other one I was referring to, which is that it had been customary for years that the council had not even been included. Therefore, there had not been an introduction to the EEA Convention, and the people were faced with the near commitment of the council, of course, of course always in place of the important administrative committee, but I'm going to make it happen only afterwards, and have taken care of the case of the joint EEA committee. After these changes were made - this was not a complete conflict because the State Department of State at the time that will come on our behalf in these matters was concerned that this would prolong the very treatment - and after the agreement was successful in exactly how we were going to enforce that change, the situation changed. One of the issues that took place in the new channel was the issue that we are still discussing. Thus, as far as the council is known and when a person examines the synopsis itself and goes in the accompanying list, it is actually a long history of communication with the Parliament on the topic of this matter. It's a little perturbed reading to go into the accompanying documents and look at things. Let me mention, for example. A letter from the State Department to the Secretary of State that the matter was taken into consideration. Controversy is based on many memos carried out in the Ministry of State of Gunnar Sveinsson Sjönsson and there was strong evidence that in a way that the introduction would not have to be concerned about the administrative matters and that Iceland's interests had been cared for in many ways, including For normal limits, such as natural gas and so on. The case had been passed to the Commission and Commission and to the trade board and ended by the sending of the head of the State Department of State for that period in September 2016, at the highest rate, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdótttir. Minister of Education today, a letter in which the main element is to have agreed that the matter will be completed by the joint EEA committee, which will follow. By doing so, the members of the joint committee following this therapy will assume that the key issues of opinion raised by the hearing, and she's been over, I'd like to say, at least 2012, 2013, has been examined and blessed by the council. In this context, it is remarkable that during concedual treatment, the need for such a material discussion is as significant as the case has been right here. On the other hand, if there is a basis for doing so, we may have been doing so. Thus, the case was delayed in the Constitution of the winter of 2017/2018, in reinvented in the Constitution during the winter of 2018,2019, because they wanted to spend more time looking for points of opinion. had become a subject of general discussions in this country, and, I believe, in part, from Norway's discussion. Thus, with opinions that can be referred to in the accompanying documents, the case was also extended beyond the council's walls and obtained other opinions. I can mention the opinion of the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Már and Stefánsson Motorsson of March 19, and the rest here from Skúli Magnússon, who is also dated in March 2019. I can refer to another opinion of Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, from March 2019 onward. None of these opinions claim that the matter conflicts with a constitution, none of them. According to Skúli Magnússon's opinion, which is very thorough and is up to 41 pages at the end, by permission of the president: ▪ In agreement with all of these, it is my conclusion that the release of authority through the introductions of 7th, 8 and 9th c. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009 to set up the European Commission's European Commission on energy market (ACER), as required by the Regulation to the EEA Convention, with the decision of the joint EEA Committee No. 93/2017, would be in accordance with Icelandic legislation. In the case of David Björgvinsson's son, the same conclusion is made in principle by Davíð Þór's son, on the other hand, a more preeminent to the subject of Fririk and Stefán Már, which states that the authors feel that there is a doubt about whether the exercise of power goes beyond the regulations of the Constitution under the current circumstances and the terms of the EEA Convention. There is a question. I feel that almost all the debates on this matter were centered on this sentence, that there may be some doubt, while we have each other's opinion of the party after the rest of the group from very melancholy lawyers about the matter being a constitution. I call attention to the fact that these opinions do not make any difference in any form of accounting at the EEA Committee. Nor do they separate the country from the European Union's internal energy market. Rather, they make it clear that even if there are no warnings, and even if the European Union's electronic energy system was linked to the EU's electronic energy market, it would be presented to the Constitution. That's exactly what I'm going to do. This is a very important thing. There is no divorce that if you want to connect, etc. it's not a later check on the case, but we're here with one another's legal opinion that goes that way. This is what I feel needs to find out right here at the end of the discussion. Similarly, I'm going to mention that in a material way, we are in the same discussion as when a Foreign Affairs Committee reviewed the matter at the time because they were referred to in terms of the financial market that define how expeditation can take place so that it would not please the Constitution. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think there's too much work to be done from the Constitution, but there are other legitimate questions to be answered on the basis of Congress and there's no need to complain about being discussed as such. about whether or not a person will be required after induction of the third energy package to connect to the market. I don't think there's anything in this case that makes it credible to European rights or that it has some kind of national commitment to our obligation to do so. I will do enough to refer only to the many opinions presented in the council on that point. Although we have both, one after the other, the definition that there is no need for notice, accounting, or anything like that, it has been done under the treatment of this case in the highest standard of care. Minister of industry as well. Minister of Foreign Affairs to be on the reporting given here to underline this. It's the common book for all the EFTA states. It can be debated about how important it is, and if we examine the opinions, one after the other, it is unnecessary in itself. Nevertheless, to prepare the matter further, and to provide a more solid basis for decision making at the council and to meet the concerns of those who feel that this is not clear enough, this is now being done, and further declarations are being made on how others view this aspect of the Commission. In this regard, I believe that the matter was very well prepared, that all the major concerns of man were answered. Within the discussion, there have been a number of factors that have enormous significance for the country and nation and are related to the implementation of the EEA Convention to which we are to continue, and about energy policies, energy efficiency in Iceland, consumers business and many other aspects of the work to be discussed as well. But I believe that most of the things that have been discussed in this context are not related to the matter of the Senate document, this proposal for action under this heading. I'd like to take this opportunity, as well, because there has been a lot of discussions about the fact that the application of 102 would be very simple. ... that it is perfectly obvious to me that the right of this article is, of course, a prerequisite for our cooperation in the European Economic Area to be a member of the European Constitution. The right to use this article is undisputed. It is a direct basis for cooperation so far. However, it is important that the terms of the Conventional Treatments of the EEA are followed so that we do not become repeatedly involved in the need to intervene once they have gone to the limit of 102 degrees. is the only alternative, the only option to intervene. However, I would always recommend that this be done if necessary. I simply don't think there is a need to go so far this time. This, in turn, brings much thought to the fact that one day such a course may develop into a somewhat complex situation. It's about not getting a deal about what's going on then that everyone in the same boat is on the EFTA side, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. The possible consequences, however widespread, have been discussed, and I am not one of those who argue that the EEA Convention would all be upset about it, but on the contrary, that men would put forth great effort to resolve a solution. But because of some fundamental analysis, the results are not isolated from the one to whom the article is mentioned and protests to defuse governmental warnings, e.g. in this case, not in Iceland alone, but in all the EFTA countries. This can be referred to as a defect in the arrangement of this cooperation that I feel we could pay attention and ask ourselves, " How can I improve in the future? ' Obviously, however, this time it will not be done during controversy treatment. I would also like to state that I have been critical of many aspects of the implementation of the EEA Convention. I refer to the report that we published in the fall of 2008 and no doubt fell into the shadow of other much larger events back then. I also refer to a warning that I have struck here in one case after another, where the European Union has expected us to submit to the proclaimers of the then established European institutions, and we have spent many years fighting that our right to a double solution would be respected. For example, there are several cases and other serious cases that have developed at the council and may not have had enough time to talk about it because we have directly faced the need to introduce European legislation or adapt national legislation to the European legislation without having committed it to the joint EEA committee. We have faced the consequences of doing so without ever having a commitment. These are all the points we need to consider and deal with the implementation of the contract. But in this particular case, once again, I believe that the matter was well prepared, well-topped, and must be looked to all the members of the council in case they intend to keep any balance in the discussion. I don't think there's any official opinion that we need to worry about. I hear there are scholars who say certain doubt if we later associate, but we have responded in a way that I do not intend to go in and appear in the original texts and books, so to speak, to look out for all the major concerns. This will be my final statement, we've taken care of the concern and concern that have been raised in the discussion and that these are not directly involved in a pack of three energy, this body-of-the-consistensing proposal and the environ ment points will remain in Iceland's discussion, and they will be involved in implementing the EEA Convention and energy initiatives in a wider context. There, the discussion is far from being emptied with a vote on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u171	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for a wealth and, in fact, a very interesting speech. The matter, in its core, revolves around a two - way selection, as it is suggested in the opinion of the Friðrik Árni Fridik Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson, son of Stephen. One of the ways is to activate 102. g. Certainly not without political problems, they would have to seek political support and right. The other way is to accept an existing Synod proposal, but under legal notice, though, as has been traced today and at the previous stage of the discussion, it appears that no one who believes that such a legal arrangement is a legal candidate, as it has been announced, has a national value. There is a legal issue. At the core, the matter may be about the choice between the two of them, and in particular around, such as the highest. Minister mentioned, evaluated the need to activate the 102rd par. I'm going to say that my assessment of the need is not least determined by the single warning words given by Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson, who are responsible for the decision-making authority that allows them to plan, plan and use important Icelandic energy resources, the comment that this is the greatest authority in the 25-year history of the Convention on land, and third, they compare this to the decision-making of a foreign institution in the whole of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] My question to the highest. A minister is: What determines his view of this need? [[The president calls.]] Perhaps a little more detailed: What danger does he feel would result if we do not accept the proposal, fire, and sulfur? [[The president calls.]] I heard the tone in a talk at the highest. Minister of this, but I would like to hear a little more from him on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u172	It's quite long now, so the President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u173	A respectable president. I'd like to set the record first at 102 st. I don't think Iceland and I would have to seek any political support to use it if we felt we needed it. If we adhere to the rules for the political treatment of the EEA, we should not have the situation that we need to apply this article. I could prefer to support myself in two cases, one on the other hand, to conclude that during the previous treatment of the matter, i.e. In dealing with the council and the Senate committees, a mistake was made, and one will see at some second stage of the matter and say: "Hey, we misunderstood the matter. There's some misunderstanding, and we can't go on. On the other hand, it has simply been chosen, and the council will has changed. Then comes a new assembly and says, "The previous assembly had found this, but this time the council was changed. Other than that, there is no need for political support from the Norwegians, Liechtenstein or the European Union, we have this right, and it is essential that the matter survives the constitution. It is true that the scholars cited point to options, but it is suggested that we have one opinion after another, where it is strongly claimed that no legal advance is needed, and even if we were associated with the European market, we have the proposal to build this two-founded solution by the ACER Institute would not be of the nature of the constitution. When you look at the whole thing and all the ideas that come along, I have to say, I don't have the same concern. A senator of that point. But what about this point? It involves the constitution, however, and there is a matter of opinion about the material involved. I'd like to ask you a question, "Why?" To this matter, a senator has a real obligation to accept an electrical cord on this network if it is required? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u174	Mr. President. Because of last words, it's the highest. Minister I want to know that I'm the one who's making an answer to the highest degree. Minister. Otherwise, I'd like to say: I didn't mean that we had to get some kind of special political support for using 102. c., but if we had made such a decision, we might remember that we would receive political support from important countries in our search for the exception that we would naturally want to consult from Regulations 713 and 714. That's what it's all about. I'd like to step aside, and that's what's presented in the many-named ratings of the Friðrik Árni of Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, who take the initiative of their own initiative in the possibility of a break-in and damage. It's on page 8. 35. We know such matters from our own experience and from our highest degree. A financial minister well knows that the government fund has had to push out large sums of money because of damages due to treaties that have led to a loss of government funds, which will be the next of billions of dollars. That's why I must ask the highest. A minister would not be concerned about that for a government fund if the two outstanding writers were to describe it in footnote 62. They raise the possibility of a contract break-up if the Power Agency is willing to connect with an Icelandic electrical network of people who are looking for such a connection and don't consider Iceland's status to be likely in such a case. [[The president calls.]] Doesn't a minister worry about the consequences of that money? [[The president calls.]] Is that at least Not a matter of caution, before the synonym is accepted? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u175	A respectable president. The reason why I raised that question was why. A senator was just because I wanted to understand exactly what he was saying with his own question. He continues to ask if anyone wants to connect with the Internet is not a concern that Iceland is facing a damage problem. I'll just have to step out of it. A senator believes that in this arrangement of interpretation and subsequent cases, there is some obligation, although not anywhere. There's no sign of it, and I refer to all other opinions on this subject. It's, for example. Briefly include Dr. Þór Björgvinsson's opinion in his statement that in the absence of a connection, these factors have no real meaning in Iceland. Right away. A senator asks me if I'm not concerned about this, I refer to all the work being done here to show that people have been taking special note of this. Is it not, then, evidence that men, including some, wanted to be careful? for this indication? I think it must be. It was then asked if I thought that if we don't finish the case, we might be overwhelmed by a disaster. No, I don't think so. Then they ask: " Why are you in a hurry? We're not in a hurry. We've been working on this case for years. It's been postponed. There have been opinions against each other. We even agreed to postpone the case until the fall. They wanted to bring more information into the matter. I think it's really bad in the redness, even though I find the latter, the leading opinion, better than the first in the smaller section. But there has been no hurry. Sometimes it is time to make a decision, and in this case it is time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u176	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for his meaningful speech. I'm gonna go straight through the material, I'm not here to talk about legal safety or where the third energy package is with us and the link to the internal energy systems in Europe once we've introduced it. I'd like to be a little bit on the same page as when I had a question to the highest level. Secretary of state this morning and direct me to the objective of the agreement and to our treaties for the EEA agreements. Where is it, top dog? Secretary of finance, in your opinion, is the aim of the European Union's electronic policy? What's our real deal with the EEA deal? Tells you the highest. Secretary of finance that we are basically on our knees to them and only have to be orderly when we do, or will we be punished in some way that no one knows? There is one determined prerogative, that no one knows until it is tested, as the text says, whether they had friends. The question is, and one more question: Have we been so uncertain over time that we have not really tested our agreements against the agreements, perhaps because we have not had the resources, human beings, to observe what really concerns us to the future through the EU by means of all kinds of regulations and actions that we have been doing? There may be a lot of questions, but we have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u177	A respectable president. If I allow myself to paraphrase this question, I feel that I am asked what the benefits of keeping energy in the European Economic Area Convention are of the Icelanders. That's a perfectly valid question. I personally feel that it can be raised the question of whether it was a good thing at the time. It seems like a lot of good things have happened, but then there are other items that are included in the package that I don't like. One standard could be used to answer this question: If we had not been assigned to do so as participants in the inner market, would we have made those rules? There are, of course, many rules that result from the EEA community that there are progress in Iceland. That is especially what I would say about anything that attracts people to better energy efficiency, increased consumer protection, and increased energy transparency. That's where I think we have to accept because there could have been a lot more transparency. In Iceland consumers have rarely been asked when electrical prices have gone up through the years. We do not have many examples of a poor contract with a major industry finally taking the lives of the average consumer in Iceland because of the loss of the sad contracts, e.g. When metal prices fall into the world market and the losses need to be borne? I guess we need to face it. Shouldn't it have been more transparent? Would not the common user, home, company, small and medium have learned more about the reason why electricity prices are rising? I believe that we have failed to create a real competition at the moment and were promoted by our previous energy bags. But all of those are part of decisions taken long ago and are not part of this situation today. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, let us continue to discuss this matter. Let us ask ourselves, " How can I better handle consumers, energy consumers, and extra transparencys about those aspects in Iceland, but they are certainly not part of this matter? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u178	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. We're actually going to have to repeat the question about our position in the EEA agreement as such, how best. One minister believes that we are in a position to deal with the agreement, whether it is not a two - sided agreement, a mutual agreement with which we have absolutely the rights of each other, and whether there is any reason to wait for an effort to make whether our special status will be taken into account. I especially want to refer to the highest. In April of last year, a minister said in this public address: "What is it that men want us to be invited to do in Brussels? This is a pack of three energy, and the fourth one is on the table and the fifth is on the way. I'd like to ask you this: Isn't that exactly where we're headed? Is it not the main objective of the contract that we get to a common market? And how, then, can the EEA treat us with water as we say we're introducing something? We're taking the third energy package and saying we're ingesting it, but we're not using it. It won't get activated. How does one look at it in the world? I have to admit my total inadequacy to the fact that it's gotten so confused and confused, and it's so twisted that I sometimes feel like I'm on my feet and I don't have the figure to do it. You feel that way about understanding neither up nor down. How do we try to approach the issue when the main objective is the joint internal energy market in Europe and the EEA Convention and our situation towards it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u179	A respectable president. This is often the case. I'll do my best to respond. Do we really have the right to choose and refuse the EEA community? Yes, we have a contract right to refuse to record in the Icelandic rights of regulations or directives. We can do that. Is it our free choice? Yes, we can make that choice regardless of pressure, but what the consequences of the EEA work will depend on the events. Sometimes it can be agreed on and given with an exception, some adjustments, etc. At times, it is such fundamental in the opinion of those in the contract that it cannot be negotiated without consequences. This is among the things I brought to my attention earlier, that once the situation has gone far and the decision has been made on the common EEA committee, it is the procedure to use the 102rd par. effects on all EFTA countries. This is the fundamental reason why the Norwegians have been as interested in this case in Iceland as they are in the discussion in Norway because they want it back to where it started. If we say no here, we're going to release this synonym, the decision taken by the joint committee is thwarted. A new decision will be needed. Then it's going to start in Norway, too. Then a new conniving treatment will be needed in Norway. We could not care less if we felt that a fundamental matter needed to be addressed. We would. You just had to swallow it somewhere else. There's the right one. I'd also like to say that there is another important factor in this, how the reaction will turn out is something that hasn't been nailed. For me, it is impossible that the EEA will be in a state of confusion. Some types, even whole chapters, might be upset not only with Iceland but with all the EFTA countries, which could create a very complex political situation. [[The president calls.]] It is impossible to say, it must be determined by events, but it is important to bear in mind that there is no court to shoot the case for release. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we have a problem with our reaction, we will be left alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u180	President wants less of it. Councilmen and the highest. A minister should respect the time limit, for here we have agreed that the discussion should not continue late in the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u181	Madam President. By then, all the directors of the board have given their first talk in this discussion and, of course, long time. But it has not yet been explained to us why we should introduce this package of energy, what benefits are available to us Icelanders. It has not yet been determined to explain why the terms of the contract are not reliable to return the case to the joint committee rather than prefer to engage in combating its own party and to go against their own course. True, it was the highest. Secretary of finance only entered earlier in a speech that was much more moderate in my opinion than what we have heard from government officials today, to say nothing of the government's solidarity. Many interesting points were made in the talk of the highest rank. Secretary of finance. He confirmed that this court was indiscriminate and, in fact, essential to the EEA Convention, did not think that we would upset the deal by using the 102rd. and, fortunately, doesn't agree with the highest. Secretary of State on that. However, I felt that the argument was not to use this article today but to be farfetched. But it is to be promised that at least this attempt has been made to explain this indiscretion from the government to make use of the agreement. I think it is very important to use this article to activate it, in order to keep it alive, because it will only become more and more difficult and more and more difficult to use as time goes on. I'm not gonna talk about it if they don't take advantage of it. Sadly, too many people in this discussion have responded to criticism and worry about this induction by riding straight into the person: politicians, lawyers, even judges and others who have warned. The government quoted its own experts, had a reputation written on it. We've dealt with a number of controversial and big cases in Icelandic politics in the last decade, and I remember that men could always be explained to governments why we needed to do what we didn't want to do. It was also possible to get humans to explain why we could not do what we wanted to do. It is time for people to show political judgment and take the lead, to decide what is political, and to defend the interests of the country, since there will always be enough people to warn that it is dangerous. But when a person has to make such a decision, it is most beneficial when reality appears and shows him in the whites what turns up and what turns down, that he can stop considering the conflicting warnings of those who, as I mentioned earlier, want to tell the government that they cannot do what they want to do or have to do what they don't want to do. And now the European Union itself has answered this question, answered the committee, for us Icelanders by reporting on why the European Union is suing Belgium because of the third energy package. And what does it reveal? Yes, the European Union is headed for Belgium because the government had the strange idea that they could still have something to say about the decisions they made on electricity and gas projects, i.e. that the Institute of Energy, the National Order, could only offer suggestions. But then the council would have to confirm. This was not acceptable by the European Union's opinion, but it is clearly stated in the Community description of the third energy package that it is intended to transfer this authority from democratic elected governments to institutions, medium-controlled institutions. The other unacceptable in the Belgs was that the government also wanted to have the last contact with the electrical and gas systems between countries. That power also had to lie with the agency. The European Union itself has thus responded to the greatest opinions we have ever faced in this discussion, and we cannot afford to accept the introduction of this energy package at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u182	A respectable president. I hear this question regularly raised: Why are we doing this? They think they didn't get the answer. After all this discussion, I thought it was quite clear why the matter was presented at the council. First, the internal market is being updated to common energy legislation that we have long committed to participate in. So it's a contract commitment that's fundamental to this. Second, this is how the matter is being conducted before the council because it was thus prepared and prepared. The senator as prime minister. While Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was serving as a minister of foreign affairs, this suit was being arranged. The question could be answered this way: Well, we're putting the matter before the council, and we decide to take care of it because you yourself have shared in taking care of it in this way. And as a result, it was promised by the joint committee to bring the matter before the General. This is the history of the case, and those who repeatedly raise the question have personally reached the past stage of the case. In that sense, I feel that it is a cheap claim that this has not been answered. It is obvious that this is the case because we've been working on it for years. Regarding the Belgian case, it is appropriate to point out a bill that will be discussed tomorrow, where all that is. A senator was referring to the scene. In the 3rd. The bill of changing electricity law and Power Institute says, by permission of the President: The ceremony is independent in its decisions when it conducts this surveillance and must not be given instructions for its implementation by the secretary. We always knew this would come on the bill. This is part of the third energy package. If we didn't bring a bill like that, we'd end up in the same deal break. Apparently, a bill like that wasn't submitted in Belgium. That's why they're having trouble with the Rapporteurs, because they had promised to put the matter forward. [[The president calls.]] The copy of the subject we have for tomorrow's program would have had to appear in Belgium. Then we can discuss whether it's normal or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u183	Madam President. It was amazing. I'm glad to hear it. In the latter part of his speech, a minister should simply agree and confirm what I said about the effects of the induction of the third energy package and at the same time suggest that the Icelandic government would be more comfortable with the European Union on the induction. It was really something to me. For the previous part of the answer to the highest degree. A minister began to wonder if I had been too quick to tell him that he was more moderate than other speakers here. But it was all right. He did not go far, but he sold himself into the field of speciality. Secretary of State, trying to throw this package on everybody else. I didn't hear any better than he was trying to explain to us that he, the highest. The minister and the government would now be ensuing this because I had not gone out as a prime minister and had taken this matter from the council. It was for the treatment of the council, but it did not enter the joint EEA committee until 2017. And who sent it there? The chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Independence, and the Supreme Court. the local minister of foreign affairs and the present highest. Secretary of education. So if men don't have more evidence for induction than this, that I haven't taken the case from the council, and that's why this government has to bring it in, I think all of this is based on a very weak foundation. I would have thought that a government that puts so much effort into such a controversial subject must have something more encouraging to say why she wants to go so far as this saying indicates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u184	A respectable president. Why are we doing this? In that question, I feel that I have either an ignorance or a deliberate willingness to confuse the discussion with what it means to be in the European Economic Area and what contract commitments we have accepted there. For those who don't know the case, it's going to work out the rules as much as possible. It's been down from the beginning. The matter is considered, and this fundamental question is asked when the European Parliament and the Commission have sent something away: Is the matter the main market? So how are we going to bring it into the EFTA business? This is the basic answer when you ask, "Why are we doing this? We're doing this because we're participating in the EEA, that's basic. Why is this so important to the council? Because it has been in preparation for many years - and, yes, then foreign minister, hombre. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. Government whether or not. paritaprevir The crew of the then prime minister, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll, sent here, as I please, 14 pages of evidence supporting the completion of the matter. They're all here, 14 pages of evidence that the case was not reported on the Constitution and Iceland's interests had been taken care of. If people feel that this is the case, they are only avoiding material discussions on the subject. Of course, it is true, as it were. One senator, after this interaction had taken place, comes another minister, and he sends it into the common committee. But this does not change the fact that there are 14 pages from the minister of foreign affairs of Gunnar Bragi Sjörg's Sveinsson for completing the case as it is here. So I say when people ask, "Why is it here today for a discussion in this material outfit? " Well, just ask me what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. He knew all the evidence here a few years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u185	Madam President. Don't governments have more to offer than to continue in this business, that they are actually doing this because some people have had some opinion some years ago? This third energy package, which I barely noticed, has been discovered and thought to be the highest. The minister of finance hasn't done anything either in his day. He was in the same government, and he did not hear the matter any more than I did. Since then, there have been many details about the nature and content of this package, and even the fourth one has been added. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has described his position based on available data today. Also, it is not proper to indicate that no matter how many pages top pages, the matter has run out of Congress or was as good as finished. A minister found in the archives when we took up a new minister. There is a very frank and informative memo from the foreign minister who succeeded describing what will be the real effect of this energy package. And that is how much of the human influence has been involved in this debate. It involves, in particular, post-administration of power over energy. In the face of that fundamental fact, people can now wonder if it is not right to move ashore. The only thing that remains is that we have a government, and its government, who has decided to take over and finish this case, no matter what turns out, and who has no better reason to do it than to explain that the case is ten years old and has been working so long that they must finish it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u186	A respectable president. I'd like to introduce in this speech a little bit to the political part of the matter that has to do with what all the people of the country and we here at the Council could expect in terms of the third energy package. It has been said a significant number of times today, especially in the front of the discussion, that we in the middle category have been in some gray areas in support of reason and our language, exaggerating the community and trying to drive it on controversial motives. Of course, I'm referring everything to the Fathers. The fact is, the doubts about this subject and its introduction are enormously high in the community, as seen in all the surveys that have been conducted and the discussion that has been very hot since the case, especially during the summer months. There is no greater opposition, apparently, than in the backlands of the government groups and probably one of the most severest of independence party. Now I'll see what it is. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs, is smiling at me. She has, of course, felt it in all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u187	A lot of support, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u188	Yeah, a lot of support for other things, but I don't think it's much of a third energy package in the back of the Independence Party. But I'm going to come back to that point what was expected. Did anyone of those who chose the Independence Party in the last election think it would be one of the core terms of this terms to punch a third energy package through with all the means? I allow myself to state that there was not one voter for the Independence Party in the last election that had that in mind. I can imagine a lot of voters hoping that this would be the big case they'd take for granted and that they didn't fail in that subject. [[The point is, it's true.]] However, it was not one of the independence party supporters who calculated that his vote would be spent beating this case. I'm pretty sure there wasn't one supporter in the Agency that calculated that his vote would be spent to support driving the third energy package through with all possible means. This is best evident from relatively recent conclusions made by the leading authors of the Agency. And I'm sure that no sponsor of the left movement would think of that because I'm in the hall. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, Vice President of State Affairs. It does not occur that any human being who chose the left green had the hope that his support would lead to a third pack of energy being struck through by any means available and the main evidence for prior Ministers, previous governments would have done so and so on, either too or short in the matter. At the same time, however, the highest was held. Minister of finance a speech just before, as he stated what would be required of him in order to activate the 102th gr. There were two points he mentioned as the main decision - making agents in that subject, and one of them was that it had been chosen and that it was just a change in the mood, perfectly normal. The bad guy said it's going to be the best. Secretary of finance and his entire group just taking up the challenge. Here has just been said by the Chairman of the Independence Party to activate the 102nd par. The EEA deal would probably be a problem if there were a change in council. So, the existing government groups have to say, even behind their backland: we want this, we're going to get it through. This is our case because the head of the Independence Party has just begun to say in the pontta that if a changed council would appear in elections, it would probably be using 102. The three members of the board, which I honestly believe, are not comfortable with this case, just have to take the baby. It's their business. Even if the case has started ten years ago, it cannot be put on someone else. You have to accept the challenge of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u189	Madam President. I can't help thanking my former coven for the concern of the group I am the vice president of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u190	She's always there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u191	The back of the party and the way I speak e.g. about this case at meetings. Hv. A senator suggests that I do not want to know the matter and only blame the former candidates, the present middle class members. I'm not gonna do it at all. I'm not gonna do it at all. A senator to attend a meeting on the third energy package at the Independence Party to hear how I talk about the matter. There's not enough I'd like to accept the challenge. I'm in agreement with this case. I think it's a really good thing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It follows the changes that improve consumer interests, increased transparency and information administration of enterprises up to the point of mono-communication. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's increasing the surveillance rights of the Power Institute. I think it's fine and I'll deal with it. I want to finish it, not because you're in some sort of fixation with a process that's been going on for the past ten years, but also part of the context. It's part of the big picture. That's why we have this job, the European rules that come into this country. There's a process. There's a deal to be made. That's part of it, too. That's not to say I went into politics to introduce the third energy package. But I've been careful with this. I've studied it, and I accept it. There's a deal to be made. This is part of international cooperation. I'm celebrating this discussion. This calls for a deeper discussion of energy issues. I'm glad you're here. This calls for sharp lines about where people stand in international cooperation. I know where I'm standing. I speak very plainly to my bakery in my company, as a boy. Unfortunately, when it comes to these factors, a senator is no longer involved, and I am on my side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u192	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I'd like to commend the highest. A Minister of industry for this procedure and the coldness of saying that she is a follower of the case. I think that's what we're talking about. The head of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, is in any position in this regard. It's a good thing we're in the way. At the same time, however, I must be ashamed as the former independent, for they have successfully succeeded, apparently, in explaining the matter to their own party. It seems to be the face of all the meetings that are being reported. Of course, it's something I shouldn't worry about right now, but I'm always a little worried about my old party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u193	Madam President. Of course, all I can say is that you care about the advantage of your former party in the nursing and in the backlands. But I would also like to mention that the backland of the party is in various ways, and there are material support. And because of what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson mentioned that this would require political leadership, I say: Yes, she's here. In part, this is not just a matter of the third energy package, and everyone sees it. It's about a bigger context, i.e. The EEA Convention, its benefits and weaknesses, how we can then take a deeper discussion on what his position is and what he has done for us and such. It is also about taking the fight when there are over and over again misinformation. [[For example, consider: Who?]] It's a matter where, as always, what's true, not just what they say. This question is asked from the hall: "What's wrong? Well, to form an obligatory string, a violation of a constitution, a resource dissociation, power production to the European institutions. All of this is a bit of a mix-up. It is not proper to place a cable. It's not right that we're giving up custody of resources. That's not true. It's not part of the induction of the third energy package. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u194	You're so accustomed to being like this when ministers are talking about that you forgot there was one answer left. I just want to say that political leadership in this case has certainly been with the Independence Party. Somehow, it's all broken into the great party. Of course, we were to expect to be supported by the fine group of members of the United States to come from the four party groups that share the opposition to the government with us. There's been no failure there, at least few people, most likely had doubts about the Pirates. But I thought it was a procedure to have on the induction of the third energy package, and his approval did not indicate that people were very convinced of their good position in this leadership when they were going to try to force the matter through the second. He's at a night meeting in the spring months. As a result, this matter is not well handled by an independent party. It fixed the posts inside the door when the so - called warnings were introduced, regardless of what they think. We know that discussion. And I have not noticed that any member of the Independence Party, so I'm only ashamed of my old partner, has come in a speech today, and explained whether their confidence in the alleged warnings has not diminished, and whether there is a reversal in us on the support of a section of the Independence Party, as well as on the basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u195	A respectable president. We'll continue to discuss this energy package, and I have to say that in today's discussion, there's little surprise, not even the legacy. Secretary of state. If I had taken a pin and a cook's pledge about how it would be, I would surely have won one if not two doses, since it was exactly as we would expect: He tried to find someone else to be responsible for the case, did not answer questions that had yet been raised, was completely in the ditch, as in most of his speeches when it comes to these and other matters. But only for a quick answer. Of course, a minister is such that at the moment, a minister was involved in the case. Of course. They were looking for permission from this package - and of course they were not available. This is because the European Union stressed that we were going to introduce it. Of course, this was the case with Generalis at that time. V.E.G. Minister, wherever you are, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, it was the case with the Generals. That's the way it was, my chief. Minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, wherever you are, that it was on the duty of the lndependence Department of Foreign Affairs, which was completed. You're wrong, chief. Minister of God, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, that the man standing here has finished the matter. That was done in June 2016. Then comes a review from the Ministry that draws in a particular conclusion, a specific method, a proposal to the General on how to handle the situation. Sadly, that solution based on the same suggestion that came on top when we were talking about the financial system or what it was now called. To tell you the truth, I think going that way was a big mistake. Then, of course, the fine lawyer who wrote them was hired to give an opinion of the solution, whether it was suitable in this too. The conclusion? Of course, his way of dealing with the financial market was also suitable for this. But it's just not about this, it's about that when it comes to making a decision, 2016 and 2017, when the Council is completing a discussion, it's a reason to say, "Hey, we didn't get the parole we wanted. We're afraid of this case, we're going to stop it, we're going to think it over better, we're going to go another way, to the UN Committee. They did not, however, and that is why we are here today. I claim, a respectable president, that going back to the European Union at that time had not been successful. However, this may be the case today because of the great opposition to the matter at the Assembly Hall and throughout the country, among the people, among the members of the administration. That's a lot of opposition. That's what I'm talking about. Minister, Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, should come here and deliver another as much nonsense as he did when the minister is to be confounded. It's what it is. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank all those who have fought for more attention, the people of our Energy, the supporters of our administration parties who have tried to talk to their people, the middle-class people all over the country and all who have warned about this energy package not only in Iceland but also abroad. A respectable president. We've got a pack of energy waiting for us and we've only seen him, we've looked in the package, as some people wanted to do this year. We've checked the four energy packets, and we should begin to wonder what's going on. I believe, a respectable president, that things are all right too. It is all right if some members of the board were skeptical of their time and are now being replaced. It's okay. I must also say, a respectable president, that if I as a minister made some mistake in this matter, if I had not survived, I should have taken the matter out of the council, say to the council: Stop this. We need to do better. We need to find another way, beat our heads to the stone, and demand an exception who realized we wouldn't get - if I made that mistake, I'm just gonna have to live with it. But the information we have today is that I'm convinced that we need to take this matter to a better conclusion and get time from our partners in the EEA community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u196	A respectable president. I heard a talk coming from you. A senator said he wanted to go check on the European Union's next energy legislation. It's got a why. You're damn right it's been done by the Foreign Affairs. She was given an enormous presentation of all the energy laws that are coming from the European Union as well as a memo on the subject and all the interest security that is coming along and working for our government. So I find it odd to be always accusing the government or other members of the council who are working here not to be aware of what is coming. The case of the next energy law is in the same place as the third energy package was ten years ago. Hv. A senator has certainly changed his mind at that time. It was not mentioned in the talk, but it certainly showed that people can change their mind, and it is a good thing, but I think that is true. A senator did just right when he was guarding Iceland's interests at the time. He did a good job. He received an allowance from various and two - sided support in the case. The situation here today is good, so to speak. A senator did a good job caring for Iceland's interests on the case, and that's why it's here today in this uniform. I'm on the side of this case, and that doesn't mean we have to consider not supporting it over some energy law that's coming. No, we will win it as well as possible. It's on the government priority list. To say that we are not aware of her is wrong. That legislation is much better than the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] We got a good presentation on her and her. A member of the committee is expected to have access to these documents and found them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u197	A respectable president. First, I don't think the senator heard my speech because I wasn't accusing anyone of not studying the subject. Hv. A senator also knows that I did not attend the Committee of Foreign Affairs where these documents were introduced, but I have acknowledged that I have read at least one of the memos assigned to the committee on this matter. I have to say, after reading that memo, I'm not very certain that the things that have been mentioned in a discussion about a pack of three are necessarily being taken care of. But I appreciate it. A senator for his safekeeping, saying that I've been very careful with Iceland's interests. I'm nothing from the fact that I tried to do that, yes, but I'm not sure, I didn't agree, and I don't agree, with the extras we got from this energy package. They're not very important. We didn't have an exception because we're a small, isolated system. We're told there's so much electricity produced in Iceland, we've got 17 gigawatts or something. We didn't get an exception, including. Because we created a two-pack of energy so great. How do you think you're going to run in front of the head of the State Department fighting for discounts and access to a pack of energy when we've already built a three-pack of energy with style? The same reasoning will be used then. I can't remember in the above - mentioned memo from the State Department that we've seen where the risks are, where we're going to try to get a release. I don't remember seeing it in that memo. Maybe we haven't come that far, but for some reason, this case was not finished when the person here was a minister of foreign law. Nobody's asked why. However, the case was closed in June 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u198	A respectable president. I wondered at them, both because of the speech of the gill. A senator and this object, whether he has asked that we be rid of the whole package as he wants it now. Wait a minute. A senator telling us that we would be rid of all the energy package in the process where it's supposed to be done? The point is with regard to the next energy law that it has not come to the point where we have a list of those requests. Hv. State Department, government, State Department, State Department. A minister puts far more emphasis on interests than has been done in the past. There we will not give any discount on taking care of Iceland's interests and especially the Icelandic consumers when it comes to energy law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u199	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I also thank a senator for a very good job at a foreign press committee. A senator is a very good chairman of the committee and will certainly find it very difficult to follow if at any time it does, of course, at any time. I'm not gonna spend all my time talking about it. The head of the State Department, who was asked if the person standing here tried to obtain a reserve from the entire package. I have to admit that I don't quite remember what it was like, but it was requested that there be some leaveovers from the introduction of the ACER Institute and all the stuff that follows and also that Iceland would continue to be taken into account as it has been, if I remember it correctly. But it doesn't matter to me today. What we know today, or what I know, is that I know a lot more about this than I knew when I was in the Ministry. I'm not ashamed to admit it. A lot of lawyers, expert lawyers, both in Iceland and abroad, have come up with side thoughts that I don't remember to have seen before. Just that one thing tells me that there would have been good reason to resolve the matter in another way from the Council of the day. Could a man have put some weight on the scales? Possibly. I don't even get in the way of that. But I'm not ashamed of changing my mind about this matter either. It's crazy to generate this energy package as it looks today with the uncertainty it's becoming. I'm sorry, but not all the uncertainty has been eliminated. And there's more uncertainty about energy package four. I don't understand why the government groups have done no more research on where it comes from. There's nothing in this memo at the Ministry of State except for a piece of paper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u200	Madam President. It has been said here today that nothing new has been made in this discussion. First of all, that's wrong. There have been many new things in the discussion. I must also ask: Do you need anything new? There was already evidence that we were, at least, so as to be polite, to press very seriously in the Icelandic constitution. It was clear that we were offering more authority than ever before. I think Stefán Stefánsson, Professor emeritas, and his Excellency author, must have stumbled before now, putting this on the table in their report they used to use probe for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which held such a Mr. Fykis talk this morning, since they suggested it was so, that it was being tried more on the Constitution than before. It would be with more power room than before, but the Minister of Industrial and Tourism comes here and just underlines it. As I say, I think these fine gentlemen must have stumbled a little. Another scholar's opinion has also been made that some members have been offended by members of Congress. I don't know how to treat members of Congress. Is it possible for members of a Senate committee to back up, as was done from kings of old? Is it? Is it to be spoken to members of Congress in some special way because they are members of Congress? Are we going to make these things? But there's another thing, and I'm really sorry to hear it. The head of the State Department has left the hall because at least the person standing here struck the other day when she showed up on a radio program and said that she did not recognize that in the opinion of Friðrik Árni and the Fridays, it could result in a violation of treaties. She asked: "Where is that in my opinion? If machines on this subject have read them so well, all they put into them, it is not surprising that you only react. I'd like to state that I'm very happy that they participated in the discussion today, many for the first time. I wish I had a 20-minute speech now, but I'm not talking for the first time, I'm talking for the 50th time, I think. Here's the thing. Winston Churchill said two things. He said: "What they do on the day or the next day will not be judged by politicians. It is the future that will ultimately judge their actions. - That's what's going to happen. I'm very glad that I have that attitude, and my associates, in this case because if I last very quickly, I could say to my grandchildren at some point in the future with a good conscience: No, I didn't do it. Winston Churchill also said something else. He said: "It is only the foolish who do not change their mind. They prudently do so. - So the empty history that has been recorded here is, it is, in fact, an empty history. Today's talks have been excellent. I was pleased with the talk of the prime minister. I was pleased with part of the financial minister's speech. People have been mostly materialistic, except for those who come here and say that nothing but Trump and BS and National Poetry, something like that. Such a statement is self-judged. You don't get in that pissfort. However, what we are sure of now before the opposition began in spring, before some of the case ended, perhaps not as many people knew as much about it as they do today. And the next thing we know is that the nation watching us, much more, is against us. The people now know who are on their side. The people now know who are listening to them. The people now know who are the executioners. I'm afraid that a case of this magnitude will not be cursed through the council again. If it be so, our breath that stood here night and day in spring, and stand some still, has not been in vain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u201	Madam President. It has been interesting to observe this discussion today. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson that some of these talks were meaningless and in a fragrant form, where there was the use of bull and national polygamy, etc. frequently observed. Sadly, this is so important. I noticed especially that the Supreme One. Secretary of finance mentioned that we would be undergoing contract commitment. That would be the point of this induction, contract commitment. Then you ask yourself, " Is it unnatural to comply with a contract that we are committed to? ' Then I'm referring to the EEA Convention because it's part of it to refer to differences to a committee called the Common EEA Commission, which can be determined and can be reasoned with why, as in this case, we should not introduce this electronic directive, because we have nothing in common with the European Union when it comes to electrical activity. I think most people do. Besides, it was interesting to hear one statement from the highest level. Secretary of state and transportation. And he spake unto the chief of the tribes and to the people, saying that there was war against the people with this matter. I think this is a direct misdemeanor because about 70% of the population is opposed to bringing in the third energy package. There is a nation's conflict that the government, the government groups, is forcing this case through the General Assembly in a great deal of disgruntage to the greater portion or 70% of the nation, as the surveys have shown. The presentation that we middle-class members, who oppose this introduction and have reasoned it well, are fighting the nation, is a natural comment that is not worth answering, and should not be heard from the highest level. A minister who wants to be taken seriously. Besides, it was interesting to hear statements from the highest level. Industrial and innovation ministers, where she spoke of improving consumer interests, a pack of energy three, would be part of improving the interests of consumers and implementing this common European energy market for consumers. Then, of course, we should examine if a pack of energy and a two - pack of energy has a higher priority for consumers because a three - pack of energy follows and is expected to improve the interests of consumers as well. But what is the reality and experience with a pack of energy when it comes to improving consumer interests? Yes, when the matter was being discussed at the time, and the introduction is made in 2003 on a energy package one, it was natural for humans to believe that in the case of consumer protection. And who's against consumer protection? There's no one against consumer protection. But what was the result? It was that electricity prices increased by a energy package one and a energy package two. The exchange of energy companies in production and distribution resulted in costs, and when a energy package alone was introduced, there was an immediate 10% increase in electricity prices for national households, and now there have been observations that the real value has increased electricity prices since then by an additional 7◯8%. We see that what has been said here is simply statements that are not valid. The extremes of this case are that they are running the case through the people's filth. [[The president calls.]] Middle-class members and I have maintained the grammatical presentation that it is unwise for the nation to take on the uncertainty of accepting a pack of three. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u202	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u203	Madam President. We are back today to discuss the removal of governmental orders due to the induction of what has been called the third energy pack. It is --for review, although it has certainly been made earlier today - fine and even important to bear in mind that the introduction of these types was discussed at a number of fixed committees at the General, professional, employment committee, foreign committee, and administrative committees for several years prior to the administration of the foreign secretary and professional, innovation and tourism ministers, however, presented a judicial hearing and a bill to legalize the construction of the project for the last spring. In spite of the extensive and careful coverage of these committees of the Generals and the work of specialists in the administrative sector, the decision of the joint EEA committee, where, for example, is to be made. However, for Iceland's special status, as well as an isolated electrical energy system with the complete reserve of the natural gas-related energy package, the Central Party felt that it was still a reason to address the issues at the General Assembly, a lawsuit that lasted some 130 hours, and we are back here to discuss the introduction and completion of the case. We're here again because the three members of the board were struggling to finish the case in spring as if they had been in the palm of their hands to do with overwhelming support at the General Assembly. Instead, the government chose to give it to the central part of the program. Also, there is the possibility that we are here because of the quick memories of those whose case has come in early stages. The fact is, the third energy package was discussed and agreed on the proper release of Iceland due to the induction already. Councilmen, chairman of the Central Party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and vice president, Gunnar Sveinsson Sjörgsson, sat in the office of prime minister and foreign ministers of Iceland. This has been observed many times, but it will not be less important to keep it in its proper place. Hv. However, Dr. Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, however, has said that there was only so much going on when he was prime minister, so he did not respond well enough after the third pack of energy. It is reasonable to ask what might have been more urgent in the opinion of the former prime minister than this case, which he now consider to be the greatest threat to Iceland's sovereignty, no less. Even more odd is the cypress in a cow's head when you recall that the same time in life. David Cameron, president of the Central Party, took the time to discuss with the then prime minister of Britain whether the transpiration of an underwater cable between Iceland and Britain was not the best. In fact, that conversation should have convinced the Chairman that the potential for economization and the energy package are two separate cases. Induction of the third energy package does not require any obligation on Iceland to accept a possible navigating cable, although it may have been expected of the media class and their follow-up fish in recent years. According to this, I'd rather look at what hard opposers of the third energy package, including members of the Central Party, have picked up their journey to this point. First of all, Madam President, it is the product of an unknown and unforeseen agency to foreign parties. Today, as countless times have been observed, a third energy pack calls for neither unknown nor inaccessible foreign power supply. The induction of these types simply requires that the independence of the Power Institute be assured. If at any future time in Iceland's electricity system is to be linked to another country by means of a sea cable, it is the Power Institute to determine the terms of the link to the EU's energy agency. And if these two independent surveillance partners don't get along, then it's the EFTA, ESA, that's taking place. Like any other member of the United States, ESA works for us. And here we can remind you that we have since the EU contract was approved to put ESAs on the implementation of the contract and also all kinds of monitoring of Icelandic governments, e.g. ESAs will monitor our competitive environment and that the government will not be disposed of by certain authorities. I think most of us love what's best. One recent example can be taken of the intervention of ESA, and it has to do with our cab market. There is now hope that the Icelandic government will increase freedom on that market to benefit the general public as a result of ESA initiative thinking on the access block that has been around for far too long. In fact, it is proper to think that the Middle Class is a great admirer of the present arrangement and is therefore not content with ESA intervention or to increase consumer freedom of choice to the market, if it is supposed to be their approach to them. In terms of energy, ESAs regularly view electrical agreements with big firms in accordance with the EEA agreement competitively, once again, with public interests in mind. In the spirit of the proverb that the purpose of the weekend has been given to certain members, including Councilmen of the Central Party, repeatedly trying to bring down the importance of independent surveillance agencies, such as the Power Institute. Thus, they have often used the wording of the National Rule of Power, likely in an attempt to achieve the impression that this is some kind of foreign agent. The word " proconsul " comes to mind, a word that has historical references to the use of foreigners. And when you look more carefully, this is a modern rule of the country, a translation of the English term "English Reggator " in English. The mail and telecommunications agency is such a national rule, including UNECE, the EEA, and it can continue to be counted. Are we at the site where the EEA has its existence threatened with national sovereignty? This small but noisy group has also become very concerned about how Power Institute is authorized to perform consumer protection by asking for information on how to obtain legal rights, unknown fines are called in their lawsuits. Yet, it is that the post and communications agency has the authority to call for information that provided parking tickets as well as e.g. The F.O. and the Contestant. In general, I think that there's quite a good thing to do, for the sake of the consumers, that they have the tools to carry out their role. The members of the Central Party have also been concerned about the courts here and there. It was, for example. It is quite unusual to hear members of the party comment that the situation in Norway was bad and that the third energy package and induction there would be a special inspection by the Norway Court of Justice. This was remarkable, especially since there is no administrative court in Norway, just not. And if I mention courts, it's also good to review only the judicial matters that are so thoughtful of the middle - class members of this discussion. First of all, the two support systems of the EEA Convention are that it's only EFTA Court that has power against Iceland. It's just EFTA, ESA, who can appeal to a contract break against Iceland. No private member who wakes up one day and wants to go to Iceland can file a case for EFTA if he doesn't get the answers from any Icelandic courts he wants. What about a damage case? It is now that neither the EFTA Court nor the European Court are involved in damages. The required offenses against the EEA agreement are and will be passed on to the Icelandic courts. According to Icelandic courts, whether an individual has a clear and understandable right to rights and whether other conditions of damage are available, and this has been discussed in detail, including the U.S.A. today. Madam President. Here in this court--this was a fun miscommunication. Here in this room, we find a wide range of viewpoints, and we have different outlooks on life. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We deal with the situation, sometimes with our goals, sometimes with the result. That's the nature of the politics. It must be the strength of democracy, but it will be more fearful when it is misused, when one repeats what is true, and the right to seek headlines, or followers. The middle class has chosen this issue, the third energy package, to try to undermine the EEA community. Here again and again, members of the Central Party have been asserted that it is simple, simpler than most almost all, to refer this matter back to the common EEA Committee as if it were some informal conversation. People have talked about a national rule instead of a surveillance agency to develop the impression that there's something unnatural around here, some sneaky thing, and they've even created a new court level in foreign lands to black out the picture as much as possible. All the talk of the Central Party on issues relating to the third energy package has been marked by the raising of fear. Bad foreigners are seeking something from us, from me and from you. It is our subject at the General Assembly that this speech will not be accepted, that falsehood will not be the new standard. This approach, in fact, is not the invention of the Middle Class. Sadly, it has become known among certain kinds of political and political elements in many countries around us. However, a killer's imagination is not always the same as that of those who use such methodology, the methodology of fear, when it comes to finding alleged enemies. I have to say, the Central Party has quite a vivid imagination. You see, a third pack of energy is highly unlikely and kind of half-naked in the role of an alleged enemy. While there are things you can rightfully entertain in the debate of the Middle Party, the purpose is clear and not quite funny. You see, few things are as healthy to Iceland's interests as they are inexpensive to the EU economy deal, a contract that is fundamental to the quality of life enjoyed by the Icelandic nation in the past 25 years. The restoration wants to strengthen European cooperation, and it has a clear vision that taking the step to the full and becoming part of the European Union is for the benefit of an Icelandic nation. Until that happens, we will, in behalf of all the people of the EEA, protect the EEA agreement by means of unfounded attacks such as those that have taken place in connection with the induction of the third energy package. This package is based on consumer protection. This package is based on environmental protection. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u204	Madam President. The rise of so - called political groups is a source of concern to many, especially in European countries these days. Here we all experience this in the form of a restoration which, from time to time, allows for an inexhaustible speech here on a speaker, I don't think it's an extra word, and repeats a misbehavior over and over again, hopefully in the hope that if they repeat it enough often enough, people will start to believe it. But so strongly suggest that the Reunion Councils are now receiving false loans from other categories, even from the Independence Party. Hv. A senator told the old independents that it was my job to stop the third energy package, a language that never heard under me. What would have happened? A senator said if I had at one time gone outside my realm and snatched the matter from the council? If I could have had a head at it, I don't think I would have had the power to do it, but if I had tried to snatch the third energy package from the council to prevent his induction, I would have had it. A senator rejoiced? Next time, I'm gonna ask you what. In fact, there was something remarkable in the case of a member of the U.S.A. A senator who can have it, so I now boast a little, to reason. A senator recognized the authority of the ACER, the European Commission, and she also acknowledged in each new role of the National Order, the Energy Agency, should be hidden. But I'm not quite sure that what. A senator realized the role of ESA as an intermediate. I'll ask you about it afterwards. But first, just this question or guess, "What would have a problem?" A senator told me if I had tried to grab a case from the council to kill it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u205	Thank you. A senator very much for answering me. I can answer this last question in such a way as to describe a possible situation in the course of a former prime minister, that I had not been particularly impressed if he had taken a case from the council. On the other hand, I would have thought it was brilliant if it were the highest. A former prime minister would have noticed the case in his Prime Minister's day, and perhaps in addition to any of the concerns that now disturb him in connection with this energy package and Iceland's sovereignty, they added their concern at earlier levels when they were working on the presentation of this case here and its introduction. They could have made a big difference, making it easier for the work that is taking place today. That would have been really good. It is simply an enormous hole in a fatherly tone of concern. The senator now, having been in the position he was when the case was introduced. There is no way to escape the fact that this is the case. However, it may not have made it to the radar of a former prime minister. I can understand that. However, the link between the fact and the debate. A senator is now taking along as president of the class he is directing is incomprehensible. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u206	Madam President. I understood why. The senator would have thought that a discussion about this package of energy and debate over it would have lasted longer than the case and would have begun earlier, and it would have been my job to start those disputes. Then I'll ask. A senator apologizes for not being able to grant them their wishes. But there's a lot of EEA issues that have reason to worry about such a thing that we might be able to get together that I'll be involved in the EU business and find something to argue with. A senator soon. But then the other question about EFTA. It was very interesting to hear it. A senator actually admits that - I know why. Congress officials have been more frank about this matter than many others here and their support may not be surprising - and it went over the fact that when there was a disagreement, such as. for electronics, fixing cables and implementations in energy, it would be the independent Power Institute and then its administration, regardless of what it would be like to be an independent institution with a management agency, the Administrative Institute, the ACER, which would generate. But it was all right because there was the ESA. But have a why. A senator studied the role of ESA in this regard? That's very clear. The actual job of ESA is to be a kind of mailman, returning the messages from ACER to the Power Institute. In fact, it is stated that the ESA can send in some suggestions, but it has no power. In fact, the ACER may decide not to do anything with the words that ESA sends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u207	I was so preoccupied with listening and trying to understand why I was here. A senator in my previous reply, interesting, but I'm sure we'll have the opportunity to discuss it further because I couldn't understand why. A senator who was different from the fact that he preached the strong resistance of the Central Party at the next act associated with the EEA Convention. I really look forward to winter. [[Top of the question: not all of you.]] No, it'll be interesting to see what's made of. It'll wake up, for example. In particular, my attention to the energy package was chosen rather than for example. Implementation of personal protection or financial institutions. [[Up front.]] Why were they gone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u208	I'm against it, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u209	Too complicated, small goods for the common people, no one can stretch his emotions as much. Who knows? We'll see. But the question now is: Was. A senator commending me for handling the right thing and while criticizing? Was he asking me if I didn't understand the case? I didn't get the right question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u210	The ESA's role.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u211	Yeah, I got it, but I didn't quite get the question about it. The fact is that there is no such thing as EFTA, ESA. Then ACER lies in the back. We know that. This has been observed many times. It's quite possible to paint the image that if one day a decision is made here - I can totally come out of the closet with that I'm not convinced forever, it will be a ridiculous idea to put a sea cable here. I don't have any grounds to decide here and now, because that's not a topic of discussion. I am convinced, however, that when it comes to that discussion, it will be open to the discussion. Perhaps it is one of the positive things that has come out of this nonsense that people become more alert and they will talk about it. On each occasion, the prime minister will not let those sitting on the throne sleep on the guard. People will talk things over from the beginning. Well, then it's time to get serious about this and... [[More power to prime minister?]] More responsibilities for the prime minister and for his secular work to be noticed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u212	...do not take the matter away from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u213	I never talked about taking the case off the council, that was your word. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u214	The President reminds us of what it is. A senator who stands in the public speaker's chair at one time has become a member of the congregation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u215	A respectable president. Today, we are going to speak to the third energy package at the council again. The issue that began with the General Assembly in 2010 is now at the end of the council payment. I'm not going to take advantage of the time today to review the detailed work of the past few years or the work of the former minister or the means we've received in that process. This has been done today by various means. Councilmen and the highest. Counsellors. However, the case has been at ease. Foreign Affairs Committee since April. as they walked to the Committee about five months ago. Sends were 132 narrative requests. The committee received more than 50 envelopes. The number of guests then appeared at an open meeting so that information on the subject is most accessible to all, both in spring and back in August. Before the committee, 50 people arrived in spring, many again, and a few new ones before this committee in August. A total of 12 meetings were conducted on this issue during this period in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and these are not included in the meetings of other committees in the early stages of this case in recent years. I don't know a case that's been given to the Commission's review. I don't think it's necessary to trace more accurately the opinion of the greater part of the State Department. It stands, is extensive and good, and we address all the questions that have been raised during the discussion. It covers the arrival of experts to the committee, which provided opinions and reports available to all. It also discusses what is contained in the third energy package and what is not included in it. What may get a bit out of the discussion is all the false information about what's not in the energy package, so I would like it in a very simple way here at first to say what is contained in the third energy package. First of all, it involves natural gas. That's what they gave Iceland. Secondly, the owners' separation of transport companies is required. They also gave Iceland an exception. Third, there are detailed laws on the independence of electronics. These original industrial ministers are being discussed tomorrow. There is one legal adjustment to the increased independence of the Power Agency and perhaps the only adjustment left to take up the energy package that is being discussed here on these days. Others have been done before, e.g. in 2015. Fourth, and perhaps the most important thing to look at is the strong consumer rights that mark all the energy package. That's even. in the clear right of consumers to choose their preferred energy sales, change energy trade rapidly and easily, as well as details of energy use and prices. Regarding it, I'd like to say that I was at the gym this morning -- if you take a story from the everyday game - and there you meet a young woman who had a husband and one child who said she had listened to me in spring and decided to change the energy trades. She did not know that it could be done, had never heard of any switch. She said: "Yes, I've saved my family a few thousand calls since spring and will continue to do so, so I'm just gonna thank you. Fifth, it's a cross-country. This is not the case because they are not there, as we have examined many times in this discourse, and I don't think any sensible, balanced person would think that such connections could be established between Iceland and the EU against the wishes of the European government. It is easy to consider an example from Europe that it is within the power of each nation to decide what goes into its possession. Danmerk can be seen now that stops gas pipes from entering its waters. Denmark is in the European Union and is below all three energy packages. V.E.G. President. Again, this issue has been thoroughly guided by experts and many of the major legal practices of the country. No other comment can be made that they have answered the various opinions raised. For example, Bjarni Mál Magnússon, professor at the University of Reykjavík and National Institutes, Margrét Einarsdóttir, L.A. of the University of Reykjavík, Skúli Magnússon, district judge of the province of Reykjavík and former office director of the EFTA Court, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, vice president of the National Court, and former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Attorneys of Hilmar Gunnlaugsson, expert on energy rights, Birgir JóhannEinarsson Pétursson and Ólafur. All these experts agree that the third pack of energy contains no obligation and hence no rights to convert a cable, and was not concerned about the administration of power in the case. I specifically mention it again, because opposers of the energy package have specifically referred to the possible sea cable as a pretext to reject it, that Stefán Stefánsson, professor emeratus, and the Friðrik Aurksson Friðriksson Hirst, were the only ones who thought they needed a warning and made the way here, and have now said that the one who is responsible for that model was holding it well. Hence, after all this extensive discussion of the subject, we can ask at this point: What remains? Legally, that's not much. In this hall, it's just an inflatable speeches and an outback of the Central Party that didn't bring anything new to the table here today, nothing new. Others seem to be concerned that the then foreign minister has not kept matters in good repair with the energy package in the early stages of the situation, but they were not. People don't have to worry about that. But I understand the important view that Iceland's public wants to keep a tight grip on one of the nation's most precious resources, energy. We agree with that, and we agree that Iceland is making its own decisions on energy. Of course. It is worth noting, then, that there is nothing in this energy package that threatens that view or policy. Nothing. A respectable president. It is simple to answer questions. Senators on why I want to accept the third energy package. It's kind of easy for me. What concerns us is consumer protection, e.g. with increased monitoring of energy monolification status, which is positive and is closely compatible with independence policy. We all agree on the importance of the provision of energy in the hands of us Icelanders, just as the provision of other resources is in our hands, to form in the fishing grounds. The general public can be confident that the Independence Party will remain as far as Icelandic interests are concerned when it comes to our participation in international cooperation, international contracts, etc. That is what we have done in this matter and only increased our interests at all levels. We're not accepting the third energy package only to maintain the EEA community service, but because we've done all the work needed to ensure Icelandic interests in this case, just as we've started on the next energy legislation we've already got introduced to, which case stands, as I've said earlier today, in the same place as the third energy package had ten years ago, at the starting point, and will appear on the committee in the fall. Thus, the new legislation will be considered in the coming winter and will be in full focus and will be in the top priority of the government. Of course, it'll make sure that Iceland's interests in the process are fully cared for. If things are going to happen in the future, the Independence Party will never hesitate to take care of Iceland's interests. Many members of the Parliament will now be talked about by this issue of concern over the Independence Party, which is responsible for the concern of the group of people, which represents a free business and an increase in international relations. It was on that basis, and according to the policy of the Independence Party at the time of the Center for Environment, our entry into the EEA community. This cooperation has been very successful and has improved the quality of life in this country much as everyone knows it. People my age are taking the EEA deal for granted because they don't know anyone else. In the 25 years since we entered the work together, we have adopted various regulations to ensure our involvement in the common European market, and we have also applied for a number of accessions, but there is nothing in this matter that calls for special caution beyond what has already been done. Finally, I would like to state that we are now working on long-term energy policy. The energy policy has to do with all the factors that have been discussed in the past month. It is positive that this debate has been in progress, but is largely at home under the debate on energy policy, such as some factors in Iceland's accession and management of national energy resources or its own rights to contact other electronic energy systems, how to promote more competitiveness in the electricity trade, increase in energy quality, energy security, cooperation of energy and the European Union's climate and status within EU regulations. The members of all members of the Parliament are members of this body, and there is no third energy package that threatens the factors that exist in it. Acting that way is a responsibility. That discussion will continue, and this work is going on and I look forward to seeing what comes out of energy policy for the future. Let us at any point discuss energy issues and how they have improved quality of life in this country. We agree that we want to protect our resources, just as we do with our fishing route and the nature of our land, and then we may discuss in what way it is done, but it just does not hear this specific issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u216	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. All I want to do is bring in the senator after an interview I heard on the Wave of August 16 since. The interview stated that there was no formal legal company set for a pack of three energy, there was no confirmation. It has been estimated that it is the joint declaration of the EU energy manager and secretary of state, the EFTA declaration of the state, but there is no formal legal company. I want to ask you why. A senator if he's not worried about that. It has also been observed that foreign people will have a significant impact on the use, organization and provision of our energy resources. This is reflected in the opinion of Stefán, Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni, son of Hirst. They say that there can be a violation of treaties, as shown on page 18. 35 in footnote 62. So I'll go back to the interview on the question of August 16th. it seemed a bit small. A senator and the head of the State Department were unaware of this and asked why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, who was also involved during the interview, where he would have found it. I'm asking why. A senator: Does she not take note of what is said there, especially since it seemed to be so that she did not realize it so recently?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u217	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The first question involved the legal warning. For example, the solutions taken up by Stefánsson Motorsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst made it possible for certain regulations involving the internal energy market not to take effect here. There's a trial in the council arrangement we're discussing. Then, of course, it is part of the prime project and the controversies of the industrial minister, which will be discussed tomorrow, including that the General especially has to accept the sea cable fix. Since we are not connected to a country, certain measures involving the internal energy market have been further suspended. Most scholars who came before the committee considered the warning not to be necessary. At least he's there. It is clear in the opinion of scholars who considered it to be necessary for a warning and has since been confirmed by the European Commission's Commission of Energy in the EU and all the EFTA countries on the common EEA committee. Of course, this has great significance. I think and I hope this answers a little bit. Senator. This is as much legal foreclosure as possible at this point. He's very clear. It is presented in the evidence that we will discuss today as well as the ones we will discuss tomorrow. All scholars, both of them. A senator would like to give a special witness, but others also have said that it has a significant significance. Some have gone further and have said that they have legal value. It may be clear and easy to find. About the second question why? The senator seems to me to be running out of time, and he has to answer it in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u218	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I reiterate the question of why. A senator is not concerned about a possible violation of agreement if we do not make it the right way. I'd like to stop back on August 16 and then meet with the State Department, where many guests appeared before the committee and had much to offer, certainly some viewpoints were presented, and the sea cable was being adjusted. Of course, there is. A senator said there's nothing in a pack of energy about fixing a cable cable, that's right. But I want in. A member of the council to see if it is encased by a cable, if we reach that point in late stages. I'd like to hear what you're thinking. That's for a senator. In a speech or two. A senator said we're working on a energy policy for Iceland that will probably look at the light of the day next year. Got it. There's nothing special about a senator that we're implementing the EU energy directive before we take our own policies?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u219	V.E.G. President. That's a lot of questions. I'm gonna try to get them all. About the question that came out in the previous answer. The senator that we were giving up control of our resources is absolutely far from true. It is also completely absurd to comment on the fact that I don't recognize wording in a report when one sentence from a 70 - page report is recorded or so and slided forward without any reasoning there around it or in relation to what is written there. It is clear that the conclusion of what is offered applies only if we are connected. If we make our own decision to connect with them, certain market rules are set, of course, if we ever make a connection, we need to set specific guidelines. But I don't worry about that sort of sales, as did a number of experts for the Committee. As is written in the documents, and it has been said many times, it will be revised if it ever comes up to be considered. But that's not to be expected right now. I'm not worried about the contract violation because we're doing the right thing. We're filming everything about us. As the majority of the experts learned, a certain portion of the energy package does not apply to us because we are not connected. That's a fact. The question of whether I'm following a cable is not up here today. I don't know what the future of Iceland's interests will be, and I'm not gonna decide it for the future when that time comes. However, I think it is extremely unlikely that there will ever be a question in this room. Technology goes so fast, and it's a long way. That's deep. It's expensive. [[The president calls.]] I could keep talking for a long time. I don't think this will ever be a question and I won't make a decision for future senators who will work in this room. [[The president calls.]] As for the second question, I'm not worried about that, because the third energy package is generally good for consumers, and I support a more competitive market in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u220	Mr. President. This matter has been discussed a lot. It's taken a lot of energy. It's our energy that goes on this whole thing. The group that has handled this discussion - couldn't it be called some kind of national nutcase? However, the results of the experts who have been consulted on the case are that the implementation of the third energy package in Icelandic is correct according to the constitution. In fact, Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Álfrik Friðriksson Hirst believe that there is a need for the warnings that will be discussed here tomorrow. They'll do it. Induction of the third energy package does not increase the prices of public electricity or gardening farmers or bakers. But a good point, it may not necessarily be a frightening policy, such as to protect low costs of energy forever and ever. We are to make sure that prices are low in public and for general use. But perhaps at some point, it is possible to obtain a better price for foreign trade than for today's major industry. I don't see why we're covering a low price to make a fortune in Iceland. Besides, I don't see a reason to rule out the age and life of sea cables here. Why would a man be in a prince's mood against a cable? I think it's a bit like setting the goal of getting as low as any Icelandic fish in a European market under the motto: Icelandic fish for an Icelandic country. A possible sea cable here is unlikely to be an option, it's just a special extract that we're not voting on right now. But I remind you, it can also protect our energy security here. We are not losing custody of our resources. We're not about to park a cable here. There will be no harm done by the Generals to land a sea cable here. Nothing in this pack of energy holds us in place unless we associate with a European energy market with such a cord. The third energy package discussion has basically been about things that are not available. There have been men standing here, e.g. To this day, and speaking extensively of the law and the things that are not there. I'm going to be faithful to that tradition in the few words I'm going to have here in this discourse on the subject. I will not repeat the arguments that have surfaced many times, and I intend to discuss the matter in general. The issue of the third energy package reveals a profound disagreement on the relationship between us Icelanders and the European Union and is mainly about that relationship, how they should be treated. There is no denying that the arrangement to be in EFTA and then in the EEA, which is a type of added force to the European Union by its own market, but perhaps not enough access to the sentence of its rule, has its own disadvantages, especially when we have governments that do not take advantage of opportunities to influence the development of rulework, e.g. by maintaining a special status and need for exceptions, governments such as were in the country when a pack of three was actually in progress. If we, at the end of the matter, were to close the country, when other nations have settled the matter, nations that may be far more concerned with us, and after we put our heads down to make comments when that window was open - if we were to refer the case to the joint EES committee, we would be naturally like a passenger on a train pushing the emergency control. There must be rich reasons for doing so. But no such reason can be found, in my opinion, in the introduction of this third energy package, let alone distress. You sometimes hear a discussion about the European Union as a form of inexhaustible empires that seek Icelandic resources and want to take over Iceland, take over an Icelandic nation, and take over everything in Iceland. I do not share that vision of the European Union. There are many flaws, and it is heavy, and it is certainly a curse to be involved in it. Nevertheless, I view the European Union as a network. It's a relationship, it's a field of consultation and joint decisions for common interests. We are now living as never before in the centuries of the big corporations, the huge conglomerates that no national borders respect, hardly respecting the government's justice, but view the whole world as their playground and regions for their activities that cannot but increase and expand according to the capitalism requirement. All our lives seem to give away the interests, the activities and regulations of these terrible markets, whether in our dealings with one another or in our consumption in small and large. These companies are heading for maximum profits for their shareholders and their activities are not in themselves thinking of the public good, although, of course, they can get us very well, sometimes, even well on chapters to the public. The European Union is not such a giant company but is the European Union's efforts to bring together the rules for this market to balance the status of consumers and to protect their interests. Thus, the European Union is a protection for the public good in the face of major corporations'special interest. Of course it works, and there are different levels of success. But that's the plan and thought of the European Union. The European Union is also a major market, and taking part in its cooperation has proved to be an enormous step for Icelanders. So far, we have been in the shelter of the Norwegians of the EFTA Convention, without even doing what they did, changing the constitution to fit these memberships, which truly includes the implementation of the sovereignty of certain matters, as all international cooperation does. What else is sovereignty? How should a government conduct itself? Probably by having the best of what to say. And how will this be done? Yes, by sitting at the table where things are done and decisions are made, not by making decisions, but by, in effect, in positions of authority, in charge, in charge, in position, in position, in position, in position. That is how I imagine a special nation working, a nation among nations. We're a European nation. We are in this part of the world, although a person at times felt as if some Icelandic executives spoke on chapters as if they wanted us to apply for entry into Asia. On the other hand, I believe there is a great deal of luck for us to be at this place on Earth. And it has an enormous opportunity, with challenges, but that opportunities will be best used in cooperation with our powerful European friends, rather than in isolation and suspicion. However, although it has its own drawback to have only an additional European Union through the EEA, it is not to be forgotten that the European Economic Convention was a major success for Icelanders, cultural and economics. We're not supposed to play with fire. The economic impacts of full involvement in the EU's internal market do not have to be many terms, but Iceland also enjoys the full rights of the Europeans of 500 million people. The impact it has had on our opportunities for education, to live, and to participate in research, development, business, and communication are no different from that of our country, unless it is known the Golden Age when the Icelandic stories were written. Mr. President. Our role as members of the Generals is to protect the interests of the common people. One of the most important things we should see to it is that the people of the United States are being driven by their vast resources. The country is to be given a full resource resources in the energy companies. It's not going to be overemptive. And it will also not be enough to stress the importance of socially essential resources such as consumption and energy resources and all larger energy production and transport systems at all times in public property and in terms of both pollution risks but also brittle. If the General had respected the decision of the national law on the new constitution, it would not be a doubt under any of these circumstances. But as it is, it is our duty, Mr. President, to make it a top priority to trust a resource principle in the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u221	Mr. President. Once again, we will stand and discuss a synopsis proposal to confirm the EEA Commission decision on the change of IV. Annex to the EEA Convention. As many have talked about today, the Allied Council has hardly dealt with any problem as much as the third energy package. What follows is a discussion of our participation in the EEA deal itself 25 years ago, The case of the third energy package has lasted ten years with countless committees, expert reviews and reviews, from scholars, partners, and individuals. Countless talks have been offered, some nice and sensible, and some, shed light on people's concerns, in order to create the competitive and personal opportunities for energy companies, but, unfortunately, most of the talks that have been offered on the third energy package, especially during this council, have been filled with evaporation, masquerading disorders, vague future vision, and, unfortunately, have moved on for a simple political purpose to undermine confidence in international cooperation, international contracts, and even more of our sovereign countries that make their own decisions. All to serve political powers and viewpoints that nourish people's fears and proclaim isolationism. Such politics are politicians who abuse people's feelings but avoid reason and reason. Mr. President. Parulism, or deity, is the name for such a form of politics. And people's difficulties are simply dangerous democracy and social development. But it is also true that the energy resources of our Icelanders and their authority are close to us, touching the hearts of people's soul. Thus, discussions about energy sources and how they use them often become emotionally charged, so it is reasonable to say that the general will of the country is to go to the ground carefully when it comes to using our energy resources, and the more important it is to be careful about increasing people's fears, especially if, as in this case, there is no need for a reason. So, what's the third energy pack about? The deed to the sovereignty? A violation of Iceland's Constitution? That the EU is taking over our energy resources without having us build up, like a powerless state that has no control? That we're giving up our resources? The third energy pack is about types of products that concern the internal market for electricity and natural gas. The latest indicators require tenancy of transport companies, detailed measures for the independence of electrical monitoring and increased demand for consumer protection and information administration. A ACER, a co-opposer of the energy market, is established by the European Commission's Group, which provides a consistent role between the electronic energy monitors to improve energy efficiency, something that is needed in the time of climate change and radical action in climate change and environment. It is not taking this convention resolution to set up ACER in 2010 and has been active since 2011, as the energy package, called energy packages, has been set up since 2009. And in regards to monitoring and ACER, monitoring that competition between the public and companies, other than energy-rich industrial, is respected and fair and transport between consumers will always be a favor, that the activities of the companies are transparent and the rights of consumers are always preconceived. It will be limited to internal markets in Iceland. The third energy package is not about many things, though it has been held in the discussion. It's not about delinquency of authority, it's not about violation of Iceland's constitution, it's not about fixing a cable and it's not about privatizing resources for foreigners. That's very interesting the arguments of the energy package I'll come to later. The energy package we're discussing isn't about a waiver in our sovereignty. For example, it is not that the recording and induction of the third energy package do not agree with the European Constitutional Act, as has been claimed to have been done many times in this Assembly Hall by members of Congress itself. On the contrary, and so on, a number of scholars, are fulfilling the expeditation of authority documents, which are drawn into the induction of the third energy package well by the condition of being well defined and in a specific field. In fact, according to scholars such as Skúli Magnússon, and his opinion on the matter may remind him that there is further evidence to be used to further the filming and induction of the European Economic Commission. Under this also, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son in his opinion, that ESAs and ACER's authority will go on shorter than the authority given to ESAs on financial control. This authority has greatly strengthened Iceland's financial system from shipwreck there. That's why we're going to stop talking about dissociative rights or violations of Iceland's Constitution. So, then, why don't we discuss the fix of a cable, about which a third energy package is not involved, but much is discussed in a Senate Hall? The third pack of energy does not include the obligation of the Icelandic government to engulf a cable. In spite of this, opposers of the energy package have blurred and blurred concern that if the Icelandic government withholds individuals or lawyers from the European Economic Area to put a sea cable between Iceland and other EU Member States, this will mean that treaties will be sullied against the Icelandic State by EFTA and ESA, as well as those for which the European State will be judged guilty of harmonisation. However, none of the opponents of the energy package that have claimed it has been able to explain by actual citations why the induction of the third pack of energy means automatically fixing sea cables, and still not being able to explain enough how the Icelandic state would be subject to damage if the Icelandic government would deny companies or legislators to repair a cable. The opposers of the energy package, which has expressed themselves on this vague violation of damage, have had difficulty pointing to the specific measures of the energy package, which includes the obligation to do so. Some, such as Arnar Þór Jónsson, have, however, referred to the Regulation's statement on July 13, 2009. Thus, Margrét Einarsdóttir, a judge of the European Court of the University of Reykjavík, and Bjarni Már Magnússon, a professor of ocean rights and national rights at the University of Reykjavík, have protested both in articles and in their case. State Department. They have pointed to, and there is little reasoning that the wording of the Regulation does not have the legal value, as the local court claims. Therefore, it is not possible to read these words of the European State's obligation to allow individuals and legislators to engulf them, which is not clear in terms or in the laws of the directive. And again, the word of the Regulation has no legal value. As for sea cable repairs, I'd like to remind you that the next EU country that could geographically engulf is Britain, which is on the fast way out of the EU without a contract on October 31 of the second. So now it is a geographic option, and at least for the next few years, it has to lay a sea cable between the EU and Iceland. This may turn into a possible future, and we may also want to wonder about overthrowing the thought of applying for industry, stopping it, and using our energy for energy exchange. Perhaps some future senators think of suggesting a sea cable, thus adding a weight to the scales of greater pure energy when it comes to the crisis in climate. But then we come to the power that has been discussed in a discussion about the third energy package. Let us be clear. The sovereignty of the sovereign government leads to their own say whether or not a cable is inserted into their territory. Therefore, the decision on whether to submit or not to sea cables between Iceland and EU Member States will remain on the custody of the International Parliament, although the third energy package will be introduced into Icelandic rights. This is made clear in the August issue of Margrét and Bjarni Már. It is clear, therefore, that the third energy package does not contain any legislation that obligates them to the Icelandic, local, or legislative countries from Iceland to other EU Member States or vice versa. It is also so, Mr. President, that a large if not one of the main elements of the sovereign state is to make international agreements, such as the EEA Convention. The so-called outer sovereign state is tied to the right of countries to establish internationally and establish national bonds such as the EEA Convention. From the national rights standpoint, the sovereignty is just about to take on commitments that involve participation in international institutions and making international treaties. Some include: The use of the sovereign power that countries that are sovereign have the right to establish international participation and participation in international treaties. Therefore, when opposers of the energy package challenge our position as parties to the EEA Treaty, we are giving up our sovereignty by submitting to international contracts and participating in international organisations. This seems to me to be one of the key elements in the struggles of the third energy package we've seen throughout the winter; that Iceland is surrendering its sovereignty with increased ties to international institutions or state law. As with the EEA Treaty, we are a sovereign state, and we use our sovereignty to the fore. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] By respecting the international agreements of Iceland, Iceland is getting more out of it than many small countries could be getting out of their sovereignty in an increasingly complex world where border and international ties are increasingly obscured. As members of Congress itself today, we must trust the future senators to make informed decisions for Iceland's interests, for Icelandic nature and for Icelandic energy resources. It is important for me to promote other things and to reduce our importance in international cooperation and international agreements. As one said before this day, there shall be agreements. As a sovereign state, we are stronger if we are a responsible contract member. But we're also supposed to take better care of Iceland's interests, and it's been pointed out since Ásgrímsson Ásgsson spoke of it as a minister 24 years ago, a year after Iceland's involvement in the EEA Convention was adopted in this hall. Let us, Mr. President, keep our interests even more organized than we have. But what about a deed to our resources that many would like to deny that the third energy package contains? First, it can be noted that the EU Regulation means to influence the rules of the Member States on the order of property rights under the EU Member States' set-up and EU activities contract. This is a key element of the debate on the loss of your own resources. There can be no establishment in the world or alliance that we as sovereigns will be established by the private citizens of certain natural resources. This is our decision, and we can review some terrible examples of how the Icelandic government has sold resources and energy on the subsidies of foreign industry. The honor of such questionable efforts, as with the activation of Kál Kölnnnsk to Alcoa, is shown by the Icelandic government alone and in debt. You can agree that a regular work designed but for European conditions, it is not always appropriate for Icelandic situations because the public has a large majority of the companies that produce electricity and, in all respects, the companies that carry electricity. So we need to focus on having a strong interest guard in Brussels so that what goes on in the EEA Treaty applies to our situation. It also needs to be noted that EU energy packages are aimed at promoting energy exchange, which is a key factor in reducing the disaster at a critical times in climate change. There is a reference to Syndicating the President's permission of the change in electrical law: The European Union has done much to stimulate growth in supply, especially in the area of sustainable electricity production, but also more and more energy efficiency in all areas. Indicatives such as the publication of the source of green electricity responsibilities have provided the European Union's electricity producers with improved competition for electricity produced by fossil fuels, and the same as it did fuel the possibility of technology development in green energy production [...] makes energy legislation also assumed that Member States can in their national legislation provide green energy production a higher priority when connected to the transport and distribution systems of the countries. In this context, it also needs to be reminded that energy legislation by the European Union, particularly a third energy package, works specifically with the aim of ensuring new electricity manufacturers of equal positions when connecting with the transport and distribution systems. The aim is to ensure equilibrium and transparency in decision-making on the basis of competitive [...] grounds to ensure that existing electricity manufacturers often have economic and historical links to transport companies and/or distribution channels are not directly or indirectly involved. This encourages new producers to be able to enter the market and thus increase the likelihood of adequate energy supply. These are my good goals and show that the implementation of the EEA Convention's directives can be greener and more environmental than many decisions made by the government itself. To say, if the anxieties of the energy package are still at hand, and it seems to me that their look in the hall, we also have a variety of instruments as a national body to ensure an even greater level of official control over energy resources, which should be owned by all of us and to ensure that any profit that comes from their use will flow to all of us. It may remind us, as it were, of the highest. The prime minister reminded us today that we can set stricter standards on land markets, clearer water rights legislation, and clearer laws on how to use resources. In addition, energy policy is being developed, and there are many opportunities to be on the lead among the nations of energy. What, then, about the market area that's being fueled with the third energy package? I ask, aren't we a sovereign state in the EEA, and should we take care of interest there and further work against the market of energy resources if we think it threatens our interests? Once again, we are not a powerless state that has nothing to say in this international cooperation. But was energy prices reduced by induction of a energy package one and two as aims? In the 15 years since the introduction of energy packages one and two, energy production and distribution have been divided. Electric prices decreased, i.e. the part of the sale. But it is true that the distribution part has increased in some places, and it is almost entirely affected by the financial cost of Reykjavík's ECU, which was in huge trouble after a crash, by management problems, and not by any energy packets. Once again, we must separate between our own home-made problems that result from bad decisions we make for ourselves, bad governance, bad vision of the future, but not to throw them over to others and to our membership in the EEA Convention. Finally, I want to restore confidence in the Council. There may not be much confidence in the Council today, and there are reasons why, especially reasons for the last winter. However, we must have confidence in future generations who have shown a lot of vision and vision but many members of the Council today, when it comes to environmental and climate matters, when it comes to making informed decisions for Iceland's interests, for the Icelandic nature and for our energy resources. At any rate, we today must trust those future generations to make good informed decisions for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u222	A respectable president. I've only been reviewing it today under the discussion of the third energy package why I decided to get involved in politics. My hometown, Mosfellstown, was probably over 20 years ago, with local government elections. I, a newly graduated businessman, couldn't understand how to argue so much about the real financial status of the local community. As a businessman, I thought I could just read it out of a year's account. Still, it is possible to read from annual accounts, but such a situation can also be fought. You see, when I first decided to get involved in politics, I thought that politics was the art of the potential, but then I've grown up and learned that politics can also be the art of deception, playful, and convergence. Why am I wondering when we're talking about the third energy package? It's because, a respectable president, it's amazing how much time has been spent talking about things that aren't contained in a pack of three. Why would that be? Of course, that is because the propaganda that has been promoted in the community and in the Hall of Congress is turning much toward what is just not contained in a pack of three, although some may insist that it is a direct reaction. A respectable president. When I got this assignment on my desk, a pack of energy, I had nothing to worry about at first, I'll admit it. From what I had studied, I didn't think it was a reason to be deeply concerned, but as the discussion grew, one fell over the project and thought, " Okay, what is this? What are the dangers here? We in this hall, elected by the nation, are always to care fully for the nation's interests. I soon learned that the previous council had repeatedly reviewed this matter, both ministers, officials, and members of the council. It had always been concluded that the matter was probably being continued, that we would have received most of the leaves, and that there would be no reason for us to proceed. Now the issue has been reexamined. We've repeated the processes we had before. I don't even know how many times. We got 50 reviews. Of course, some of the comments were negative, most experts'opinions were positive. Business organisations, industry organizations, Natural Science Institute, I don't even know what I'm forgetting, none of these agents said against continuing. Our energy came with a detailed review, a baker's champions, and people most of whom are connected to our Power. We asked all the questions that need to be asked in such a case, and the meetings were all open, so that everyone should be aware of what was going on there. The result is from this large study that the energy package works on a constitution. As he's laid out right now, I haven't heard any expert objecting. The induction of the energy package will not increase electricity prices. The approved energy package does not mean sea cable fixation. Also, that does not mean that land activation will be self-involved. And much less, energy package three means that we're giving up control over our resources. Then there has been a lot of debate about whether we might be harmful to others or not, we would be standing in the way of a sea cable. The lawyers who met with the Committee described this as legal science fiction and, on the other hand, legal aerospaceism. Still, some have wondered if this is true. At the very least, it is clear from the discussion and the way the situation exists that no one out there should have imagined that we had intended to lay a cable. As a result, no offense can be demonstrated. Since no one today would like to engulf a cable, someone can come and expect to connect and be so surprised if he received a no. We're eroding it here that the decision for a cable will always be made in this room. Do I stand for a cable? We can go back to that discussion. Today? No, not at all. In the next ten years? Very unlikely. Sometime in the future? I don't know, but I've decided to trust the future politicians for making that decision when and if it ever comes up here for discussion. We might also wonder if it would have been better when we made a deal in the EEA to let go of this IV. The appendix of the so-called, removes the energy, just as we took the sea resource. I wondered about this much, especially at the beginning. I thought, "Why were those before putting the energy into this deal?" It would be so much simpler for us if there were just no discussion. But I have to admit, after considering this case, that I think that's exactly the benefit of having IV. The annex to the EEA Convention and that the energy is in there. We can see that various Icelandic companies benefit from this, and then we receive legislation that greatly increases consumer protection, frames in how the energy companies need to publish their information, that it cannot be used as big government grants if there is not a good reason, etc. This too has been claimed to be a major opposition to a three - pack energy package. Some nut. A senator spoke of 70% of the nation. I must admit that I have not seen such opposition. I have observed, of course, that there are differing opinions and that the people have requested, we felt, sent in letters, and other things, but I also have to admit that as I take a conversation with other people about this matter, most have concluded that there is nothing to fear at a energy pack of three and/or people say, we are going to trust you two that we chose to discuss this matter. However, there are people who worry, and they are in many respects understandable, especially from the way the discussion has become about something that is not in the third energy package. What I think, though, is that good about the discussions that have developed, a respectable president, is that in recent years we are suddenly talking about things that may not have been enough to talk about. It's the big questions, the future resource management, how our energy policy should be, what about the tenure policy of Landing, property. This is all a huge question, and that's what we're supposed to be discussing. This is very important, and it is good that the nation has increasingly participated in the discussion that makes us in this hall better prepared for that discussion. Of course, we are always taking care of all national interests. A respectable president. I had promised not to make full use of my time so that we could end this discussion soon tonight. Clearly, there is not much to be said about this matter. I have considered that there were really no legal merits left in it. They've all been answered in earlier stages. The remainder of this room is emotions and slightly divided views. Then I just want to add to the fact that no issue has been discussed, hence, as much research and never as many people have written reviews as about this exact issue. The conclusion of most members of Congress seems to be that there is nothing to fear here and that we need to finish this matter. No one's in a hurry, because we've taken a very long time to discuss this exact matter. It's time to make a decision. Now that we've agreed to vote on the case on Monday, it's important to finish the case so that we can get together with all the important issues, both resource and energy, as well as the rest we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u223	V.E.G. President. In Iceland it is high today, and each plan will rise in the wake of wind milling gardens or pits where harnessing as much of the energy our beautiful country has to offer. Last of all, it was 27 mills set up in the land of Sunheima in Laxár valley of Dallis, and the lowest mills to straddle at a height of 150 m, corresponding to over two times the Harg Monster Church. The mills are added to the 59 mills foreordained at Garps Valley and in Hóndres. Iceland is not a choice of windmills except from abroad, but it has been for them to go to Iceland only as part of a experiment project. Since there are now 86 mills in the pipes, therefore, it may be surprising that many people wonder why this great interest has never been here. Since the third pack of energy was discussed at the General Assembly, much time has been taken to discuss the warning that the government claims to put on the induction program. In advance, the energy package directives will be implemented, but the validation fractions of the energy package will be delayed, i.e. those who might cross the constitution. While there may be any value in such cases, it can also be noted that the induction is not as though it were supposed to be, so it can be expected that EFTA has something to do with it. In this context, we do well to examine recent reports of the challenge that take place against governments in Belgium. The reason for this concern is that it is the European Commission that appeals to the matter and that is because of the way the government in that country was introduced by the third energy package. The Commission wants to deny that the induction of two of the Regulations included in the energy package, No. 72/2009 and 73/2009 have not been carried out correctly. Despite this high correlation between these two events, inadequate induction of the third energy package in Iceland as well as Belgium, the government seems quite calm. It may be said that it is surprising that one of the jurists after another pointed out how dangerous this track is, not entirely in view of the fact that the one-sided power supply of Iceland is useless, and not to prevent sea cables after the third energy package has been created, but to play with us that the fire, to say, about the induction, and we can expect to have a contract break-up against Iceland and all the likely damages. Now, I would find it interesting to know if the government had an assessment of the damages if it was so bad that the national treaties would be brought against the country after the half-developed process. That may have been the case. not studied. It is a responsibility to rule a whole country, and certainly it is important to put on both belts and shoulder ties, especially when it comes to large sums of money that the Iceland State Fund may have to survive. So I'm surprised at all this. I am surprised that the government closes its ears to skeptics, laws, and specialties, instead of examining matters and making sure that they do not start a dangerous journey. This might be called panic propaganda, but many people are worried about it, and we have it in the Central Party. Of course, we need to be able to trust national governments, but considering what has happened, there is no way that the doubts have begun to bother you, for predicting what lies ahead may be difficult. The worst part is that I'm not sure the government knows what lies ahead on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u224	V.E.G. President. Today, the debate at the Senate Hall has been excellent. It has been fascinating to see and hear a government minister give his first talk on a pack of three energy. Since then, the government has discussed that there is no energy pack in the three supply of sea cables, that we will not be obliged to sea cables from Iceland, and I don't understand how the council members think of spending the day talking about the fallout. The members of the Central Party and I well know that there is nothing about Iceland's duties to put a sea cable away from the country. The fact is, when we accept the energy package, we have become part of the EU energy market and the translucency of aviation cable will be preferred to those people who have worked hard over the last few years to lay the groundwork on such sea cables. During the summer, there has been a lot of debate over the sea cables, and many times the government has been warned that the legal situation may arise that the Icelandic state will be forced to allow the sea cable's wish for a private person to be laid. I'd like to stop for a moment, as the energy package contains the following text, with the permission of a president: The development of real internal markets in the field of electricity, with a network that is linked to the whole Community, shall be one of the main objectives of this directive... Therefore, each human child should be aware that by using this introduction to Iceland, the country will be willing to cooperate with it. So it would be strange if the government was to stand in the way of any who intend to place a sea cable and at the same time put their weight on the scales to connect the coalition. If so, why should the third EU energy pack be agreed initially? Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson points out the following, for he has been concerned that Iceland might have a contract violation and, as a result, be obliged to authorize a cable, so I testify in his own word, by permission of the president: ▪ The test of sea cables or attempts to put stones in the streets of such projects could be considered nonstatutory business barriers, and stakeholders could have the right to undo damages to the Council or to the Icelandic government's permission for sea cable repair. The requirements for such a case may be billions of dollars or billions of dollars. Although the legal part of the energy package was much under consideration, and after each other participated in the legal battle, the energy package is about the people of the country, about the nation that comes along as a result of its induction and its consequences. It is difficult for the United States to pay many billions of dollars on damage terms, and it will certainly fall on the citizens of the country, either through taxes or through cuts. We can reject a third energy package from the European Union, and the rejection is in accordance with the EEA agreement we are on. Thus, the European Union's third energy package is not about fighting the EEA Treaty but about opposition to the content of the energy package itself. Resentment is dishonest. It seems that when a state makes a deal, it is not wrong for them to take advantage of the terms of that agreement. Why should it be wrong to make use of the terms of this agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u225	A respectable president. I enter this discussion with an open mind about the views that have occurred in the past few months. But I expected more precisely after this break, where people could have studied the matter better, since they could have agreed on the argument and the claims presented and explained their case accurately instead of having the fear propaganda that was called here earlier, about the wooing high damages or continued claims of power. Why, in fact, should the sea cable be banned? Let us see. The EU energy market and EU policy are affecting energy security for consumers, number one, two and three. Governments are now obliged to ensure delivery of energy to households and if the government wants to, they can also provide energy for small companies. These are two things, but they are now obliged to provide energy security for Icelandic households. A second target of EU energy policy is a lower price to consumers. The third objective is environmental. These three: energy security, lower prices to consumers and environmental considerations. Why should we say no to those goals? There's no need to. What's interesting when you look at the matter accurately - I think it's important that we get into this discussion, especially that there could be huge billions of damages, that you will be more accurate and that you can explain exactly what circumstances that might be. To tell you the truth, I don't see that this situation could ever lead to the idea that the Icelandic state or someone would ban sea cables. That's really unnecessary, because if anyone wants to come here and pay it all the time, we should just say, "Yeah, okay, go ahead, go ahead. First, it is an investment, so it makes it so good to give us a cable. That'd be great. Second, the extent to which lower prices on energy are assured in this market is deeply affected. If we understand how the energy market works, we scratch our head and say: Of course I should want a cable, unless it's so expensive that it's a ridiculous investment. But if anyone else wants to pay for it, that's okay. It works, so it is a priority for energy sources. I was in touch with the parties who made the report for our Energy yesterday, and it described that we fell into the Nord Polo energy market and their prices would flood us, etc. No, that's not true. There are 15 different sources of energy and prices within the Nord Polo area. We'd be one isolated evasive zone, e.g. Because of the small capacity of transwarp cables and also because we can fully conditions that we don't want more of the environmental energy to be available to us. What a powerful influence that is! In other words, the cheapest energy in production and the most environmental energy in production, especially when the pure energy package is being added, is first introduced into the energy market. It may cover half the expected energy requirements. Next comes the second most expensive and almost most environmental energy, etc. until all the energy needs have been reached. The price on the energy that comes into the market is the price of all the energy that comes into the market. This makes it much higher for those with cheapest, best, and environmental energy. It is an incentive to produce more of such energy. The energy that can't get into the market because all the demand has been resolved, it's not sold. We have nothing to do with animals and environmental energy. In Iceland it is such an enormous production of expensive and environmental energy that it simply does not find out, not about sea cables, and not to Icelandic homes, no way. And because we're in a special auction area, it doesn't matter how high prices are in Norway, Germany or elsewhere, it has no effect on Iceland's energy and auction area, none. Then you say, "Why would you want a cable? " Yes, because the excess energy we have here would cover a cable for Europe. Some people are concerned that they will all be, and their grandmother will be activated in Iceland to sell as much as possible and what would be the environmental impact of that, etc. But then we have an environmental principle, we have a framework that we all know that the Council is in control, and we know exactly how difficult it is to put down the continuum transfunctioners. That may mean a lot of small reactivations, or some windmills, etc. but there is a drop of fluid in the ocean based on Europe's energy demand. It is far more practical to build windmills where energy is needed in Europe than to build wind mills here and transport the energy from an extremely long, inefficient, energy - force cable across the entire Atlantic Ocean. I don't see a chance, it'd be a snowball in hell, that they'd put a cable in here, but if he were here, it'd be all right for us. It wouldn't be dangerous. This would have no effect on the increase in energy prices in Iceland, not any. I looked forward to more precise discussions. She hasn't yet. So my open mind is getting a little tighter in this regard. Still, I keep hoping that the reports will be stopped and that the presentation will be a little more accurate. I have to admit that they are more accurate from the management and advisers than they were at the outset, and I think it's a good thing to answer the questions raised here. Nevertheless, I miss the accuracy of those who are distressed over this matter, for it is an enormous lack of precision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u226	A respectable president. There has been very little new in the discussion today, in fact. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson said in the news and has also said that one thing has happened since summer, and it is that the European Union or European Commission decided that Belgium is concerned with the third energy package. So it's like, "Hah, look. " The Commission could sue the country for a violation of the third energy package. The answer to this amazing discovery is: A senator and his friend. Class is: Of course you can sue for a violation of an agreement. But what's wrong. The senator does not seem to realize, or his fine company, that this is simply not a resolution of the sea cable. It's obvious from the talks, it's obvious from the documents, it's obvious from reading the energy package itself -- the only members of the council who seem to suggest something in some way, in an indirect way and possibly in the future through some lawsuit, are accepting cables. The members of the Central Party and no one else. If the window was in the law code, which is expected to be more massive, I don't think any human would see it out of the approved third energy package in Iceland that we were accepting a navigating cable. However, the third energy package contains a number of regulations that Belgium has agreed on now to accept, perform, and implement here. Of course, when a person decides to negotiate with another person, he or she should agree with that agreement. Well, I guess. The only thing in this news, i.e. that the European Commission has charged Belgium with a violation of the third energy package, is simply that Belgium agreed to do something Belgium did not do. What is more, Belgium specifically agreed that if such a situation arose, the European Commission could sue Belgium for it. The only thing in the news is that, yes, there is a phenomenon called the European Commission, and when national authorities accept national commitments, they are certainly made to follow the approved ones that they have accepted. There's no news, Mr. Honorable President. I mention it specifically because it's really the only thing I've heard in the summer. During the whole summer, I even signed up with a bang. The members of the Central Party in their own time may want us to postpone the case until autumn so that people can examine it further. Now, a closer look has been made. What did we get out of it? Yes, it is for the European Commission, okay, it has been discovered. And I guess the third energy package is in force in the European Union, so have we. And a country called Belgium and Belgium had agreed to the third energy package but failed to meet its commitments and was charged with the European Commission. That's the news. These are the new data. This is the new evidence from the Central Party. It's a laugh, a respectable president. That's funny. I think the common people who have observed this may have noticed that both the executives and some anti - generals have become a little irritated here to discuss it, perhaps thinking that the feelings are caused by something special about the matter. I don't think that's the point. I think that people are just a little instinctive to get a little frustrated about having to repeat themselves over and over and over again and listen to the same confusion and look at people working with people who come here and always try to cook this nonsense into other members of Congress. They know just how ridiculous this is. It's kind of annoying. I must thank the U.S. Congress for showing the calmness he has shown, especially the committees of the council, who have shown great composure in caring for the dissension that now continues. I thought it best to mention this Belgium case because there's so much textbook example of what's going on here. I understand, because we're talking about the induction of regulations and two supporting systems and all such things, that the common citizen will find something in the argument and presentation of the Central Party that would be worth worrying about and considering, or something like that. I understand that, and I have a lot of respect for it. But we senators, who have considered the matter and who know what it is and who can easily see through this preposterous presentation, see exactly what is going on. It's an illusion, a respectable president. It's an illusion on the Central Party. He's dishonest, and he's a disgrace. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-08-28-130.u227	V.E.G. President. Like others, I want to thank the senators for this discussion today. Of course, for some reason it was repeated information about what we did here in spring, and I can't say that the matter changed in any way or that new surfaces appeared in the weeks since we were discussing this matter in May and June. But the matter has certainly been discussed more, prioritized. At one meeting, a Foreign Affairs Committee at two meeting meetings and a variety of viewpoints discussed, as had previously been done. In principle, however, what remains to be our decision in the Constitution, and in fact more groups in the council, when it was first proposed, remains that it was prepared and done well, that the induction of the third energy package does not involve any dangers for Iceland. It would have calmed down on political issues, and it would be clear that the views presented in public discussion and included criticism or even warnings about the third energy package should not be supported. I'll just mention a few points in that relationship. Many have been held in a public discussion about this energy package, that it includes the provision of the energy resource to the foreign authorities. Nothing in the trial or in the discussion we have taken at the council gives us reason to agree with it or to draw that conclusion. The energy package has been claimed to somehow lead to the privatization of energy companies or the energy resource. Nothing in the energy package gives us reason to draw that conclusion. A lot has been discussed about a possible cable, and this conversation may have been the most pronounced in a public discussion during the summer. Of course, it is clear that nothing in the energy package gives us reason to believe that the Icelandic government is obliged to lay such a sea cable or allow such a cable to be restored. I'm only involved in that discussion later in my case. The main concerns of people who have been present during the discussion have not been supported by the discussion that has taken place or the treatment that has taken place on the part of members of the council, nor in the discussion that has taken place by experts on the matter. The discussion has again quoted excellent scholars, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and the Friðrik of Árni, the Friðriksson of Hirst. In particular, there have been evaluations from a footnote on page 19. 35 in terms of the success in March/ April but less has been done with findings observed in their opinion or in humans, the overall assessment of the two fine men, which may have been less substantial. This includes the introduction as it is proposed to follow up, which includes no administrative dangers, as shown in their letter from a April issue, and that they do not comment on how the warnings taken by the government are put on. For both, the effort had been made to make a significant difference. Of course, these two fine men, Stefánsson Már and Friðrik Friðsson Friðsson Hirst, may have more doubts at the beginning than other scholars on this mountain and have been referred to in the discussion to a good opinion of both Skúli Magnússon and Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, both of which are important evidence in the court, and an earlier opinion since the last year, from Birgir Tjörvi Pétursson of Peter's attorney and Ólafur Jóhannes the Einarsson of Charles, as well as others have entered the later stages. I'm going a little bit, chief. President, before I take my case to further establish a program that may have attracted the most attention in summer, even though there is not a new subject on the case or on a new surface, they had previously been considered and discussed, which pertains to the alleged obligation of the European government to allow some authorities to place an instrument here in case of interest. A great deal of the comments of a fine district judge, Arnar Þór Jónsson, in that connection and support were made from several lawyers who were thus tore at ease, worry that the source of the energy package would somehow open the way for foreign persons, possibly companies or other such persons, to make somehow a requirement for the government that they would be authorized to lay down this sealine and what would happen if it were not done by the government of the United States. The case is crystal clear, as it is stated on the part of the government that no decision on cable was made except by the approval of the Generals. You should keep that in mind. However, there has been some question that the decision was to be made by the Council and that they have insisted or warned about the case on the grounds that it would be permitted. Of course, it has been established in this discussion before I feel it should be borne in mind that this theory, which I would like to say, is based on a very weak legal foundation. In effect, those who have claimed it well in my opinion have been able to explain what is happening here and, in effect, wonder how far they have been trying to maintain it, based on what is on a weak foundation. First, there is this point, and I do not build it solely on my own understanding when I insist on it, but also on the opinion of some other scholars who have expressed themselves on this particular subject and then again name Skúli Magnússon and Davíð Björgvinsson, adding to the Bjarni Már Magnússon, a professor of the University of Reykjavík, and Margrét Einarsdóttir, who is at the University of Europe, for example, the result is based on the sound basis that the third pack of energy may be read in some way by the government's permission of the seabook. I think that anyone who has studied the case would agree that in the paragraphs of the third energy package, there is no such obligation. On the other hand, the general introduction, the aim of a declaration to pay for a business with electricity and the kind of thing, where nothing is done specifically with strings or such. The men I mentioned at the outset, Arnar Þór Jónsson and several lawyers have claimed that it was in some way possible to guide the general saying that Iceland could not stand in the way of a sea cable. I think it's very farfetched because it's a general statement that doesn't specifically address that kind of connection. There are no rules that support it, and if we determine how a goal description is usually defined, they are designed to explain some rules of nature, not necessarily, but never necessarily a rule of contents in themselves. If they were to include some procedures in themselves, they would need to be much clearer than the target descriptions contained in the third energy package. It may also be noted that such a target declaration is contained in the energy trays, and since 2003 it has been comparable to the connections provided in the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] Although it is designed in another way, it is the same as no one's thought of it as having some physical principle that we should have the obligation to place a navigating cable here. V.E.G. Mr. President, this is what I'd like to say. My time is over, but I hope I have a chance of taking this part rather in the discussions tomorrow than thank you otherwise. Parliaments for participation in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
