ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every appointment to provide written answers due to inquiries. 995, history of the software system, etc. 996, about Vera's software system. They're both from Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u2	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u3	To answer, Budget and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u4	President. Secretarys of finance and rural government have introduced ideas about reducing the government's contributions to the County Fund by $3.3 billion over the next two years. In particular, the State's contribution has been to the services of disabled persons and to less - important rural partners. V.E.G. The secretary of finance told the Morning newspaper that he felt that this case was too much to be made up of, but the Union of Iceland has responded very strongly to these ideas. According to the highest degree. This is thought of as a contribution to the local community into the economic situation in Iceland, claiming to be the highest. The minister is more concerned about other factors, including the state of the airport, the dress interview, and the failure of hairy behavior. It would be appropriate to consider that these factors, especially the hairy failure, will, of course, be relatively harsh to certain rural areas rather than the economy in general, especially in rural areas in the East and Northeast. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister, in view of the reaction of the European Union partner and the serious situation that has come up in many rural areas in the East and North East, whether it's not right to withdraw this plan, to cancel it. If not, I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister is not prepared to describe how he will then and the government will meet these specific rural communities, which suffer very special setbacks because of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u5	A respectable president. The comments that I have had during my recent visit to rural society are that people are getting far ahead of themselves in that discussion. In recent years, we have made a written agreement related to the contributions of financial programmes between the state and the local community on various financial issues. This written agreement has not been completed this year. It's not good enough, but we can live with it. In the next week, financial programs that will be discussed need to give us some underlying grounds. Among the countries we've expressed to our societies is that we'd agree with our local communities as susceptible to the fact that we wouldn't reduce the balance, but we'd keep it in a fixed dollar in the next few years. In the end, of course, it depends on an agreement with the rural communities on these factors. The budget is not in charge of such matters. It would require a special bill. During conversations with rural society, there are many conversations. You're right. A senator points to, such as. The matter of the disabled in history. That's where we have, for example. I'm going to recall in the relationship that the state came to the countryside a few years ago and handed over a little 20 billion unsupervised and no one should enter the community's Penitentiary. In our case, we mentioned that perhaps we could look at 20 billion in our future financial relations between countries and rural society. Well, that's just fine. The conclusion, then, is that it is absolutely premature to make large statements about what happens by means of the equation. We hear the protest from the government that something is going to be the object of that price, but then we'll just continue down the list because it's a very long list. He has a balance of lodgings and other items.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u6	President. I'm not quite sure how to understand my last remark. Minister. It could have been understood that if the rural communities were not to agree with this cut on a donation in an equation, they would be made payable somewhere else. It is a pleasure, though, to know that the government does not intend to make a decision in this matter without further consultation with the local representatives as requested on their behalf. But in view of the highest. Ministers put these things in context, the economic situation, including with respect to hairy deficiency and collective agreements, it is not normal at the highest level. A minister should also take special note of the situation of the rural unions who suffer special setbacks as a result? If the State is to reduce its donations to rural society, including Because of phlegm failure, is it not proper for a person to take particular care of the situation of rural society, which suffers far more setbacks than the State's proportion because of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u7	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, a concern for some rural communities is that they will fail on furturbing this year. We read, for example. this morning, in the magazines, the West Coast finds itself behind a lot of money because of what others might have paid but now feels that they can live with it. The very quality of the treasure fund is that it takes even the same. Take into account the changes in their predecessors. The share of the eco-efficiency takes into account the income of rural society so that their positions will be changed to claim from an equation fund depending on the year in individual rural areas. I don't see how the state makes a special contribution to society because of a hairy failure, but I'm stressing that there are a number of things in the financial relations between state and rural society that need to be discussed and completely out of the way that the local communities make the idea of going away from that conversation, the overall agreement on financial issues, on the grounds that we've discussed the balance payment at the Ministry of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u8	Mr. President. I guess the U.S. secretary of finance realizes that a fixed dollar means a crisis, especially in an inflation society, and is taking a hard bite as it is growing. And if it's the highest. A minister may want to go down the list in cooperation with rural society, and perhaps it is all right to include the underdevelopment of aging services as well. The last financial program was severely criticized by a number of stakeholders who felt that the criteria would not be met and the goals of stability would not be met. The managers were based on a 13 - year - long economy, a buck that would remain stable for five years, and a considerable amount of calm was expected at the labour market. It's under the roof. Any of these events have been followed by a minister? Senators of the United States, including the United States of America, Be critical of this, pointing out that the cutting knife would be quite quick in such circumstances if the underlying circumstances arose. In the evening news, Stop 2 spoke at the highest rate. The secretary of finance for the 5 billion requisite requirements of the agencies and the Ministry, and this adds up to this total of 3 billion for the reduction of rural funds, such as water. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson said, especially to finance the services of disabled people and other important close - up services. In time, financial policies on which a financial plan is based and that governments could get into a straitjacket. Economic order has been severely criticized by economized by economists, thoughtless, and hardly compatible with the state's fluctuation role, could reduce demand in times of recession and subjugation. V.E.G. Financial Minister: Aren't we just getting caught up in the financial policy of the government? Would it not be wiser to earn and defend our welfare instead of constantly crowding into the rural areas and cutting down our services? [[The president calls.]] Would that not give us more stability?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u9	A respectable president. There's the Conspiracy like herself. Why don't we raise taxes? We have to start raising taxes. We have to raise taxes - that's what the United States has to do with today's economics. In fact, we have a suggestion to reduce taxes, and if anything is involved, the labour market message will send a message to lower taxes more. It really doesn't stand a stone over a rock in the language of a man. The senator and the story are a little rough about the big words from a year ago on financial plans. It was then said that it was all too optimistic. Where are the prognostications that show it? Economic growth in 2018 exceeded that predicted. Now entering 2019 C.E., economic growth is not the same as we have seen before, but it is still considerable. I've given some warning signals in the economy that can change the situation but still we're achieving all our goals. Consider, for example, that making income for 2018 was more than a budget expected, as well as financial and financial policies. Then you come here and say that it's a strange requirement for the government. We just have the same general requirements that we've had in the past few years. It is important to keep this requirement and to give advice to institutions and recruitment systems, the management system, the opportunity to implement it, but not to bring a custom cutout proposal from which to be ill. It's not much, I'm going to claim, to ask for a 5 billion hold on an equally large budget bill, where income grows as much as it really does. This is the big context of the parts. We are still in economic growth and are taking care of the good provision of the sheep.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u10	Mr. President. The company wants to lower taxes on low incomes and medium incomes and agrees with left greens that those who are very well qualified can pay, for example. It's a fortune tax. However, we do not want to lower taxes in a way that allows the hotel manager to get the same dollar as the hotel servant. It's the highest. In other words, a minister would say that the basis for financial planning from last year was successful? I'm sure he's the only one. Both professional and labor officials have talked about creating something that is more than pay - raise, and that is where the State's authority comes in by creating a reasonably well - equipped system and security that is not being done. Here the welfare system has been hollowed, growth improvements are history, child reforms slightly elevated, but they are rapidly impaired. Again, I ask: Do we feel that a minister is in the straitjackets against which financial counsel warned? Does he believe that this is a stable country? So he's probably the only one who thinks he is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u11	A respectable president. I have to say, I don't quite understand if the Consequences want to raise or lower taxes. It was now said that taxes should be reduced, but the UN's suggestions for financial management a year ago covered a tax increase of about Twenty-five to thirty-five-five-five-five-five-five billion. [[Up front.]] There were additional taxes to spend more. I'm just saying, it's not always possible to add the government fees. We have been running a reasonably conservative government policy, which has guaranteed that the State's prime fees have been growing into the topic fields, and we have created that scope by cleaning up the debt gate. The stability as time goes by. For a long time, a senator calls for us to manifest himself as a relatively low inflation. It also appears to us in some of the lowest real - life conditions we've ever seen and in Iceland, based on where we are in the economy, is relatively low in historical context. The growing difference between countries is lower than ever, and there is the opportunity to reduce growth and maintain low inflation if we play together, public finances, and employment markets. [[The president calls.]] It is truly delicate times, and I will be one of those who highlight the importance of stability in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u12	A respectable president. Yesterday, in this public address, I and the Microcracy Association were said to have a budget of 1.4 billion. I've never known that I or the Communist Alliance would have access to the financial resources of the state. In this case, I am going to quote the words of the minister of finance earlier at this council: The suggestions haven't arrived yet. It is quite unrealistic to believe that it will take effect on January 1, but we can have hope that it will be after the first quarter of our lives and at that time 4 billion each year into our futures. That's why we're proud. That's where he was talking about taking off a crown against a dollar. According to human insurance records, a dollar in return did not cut down to 11 billion in 2016. There are 4 billion there, and only 1/3 of the cost of a dollar is to be discussed. As a result, I ask the minister: Was anyone kidding anyone? Is that the only way you're supposed to fix a 1/3 in favour of a dollar? Then I want answers about what the minister said about the housing damages. He put it this way: Its funding is of no consequence in itself because it is only legal rights to which we must meet. It's just a promise now. That is the requirement for people in the state, and they are counted by a treasure, whether it has been financed by humans in particular or not. More than 200 people could be corrected immediately. Suddenly, though, there is a need for legal resources to do so. Why is this not done, either backwards or forward? They're people who don't have a right anywhere else. You are to be corrected and obliged to correct it immediately today because these people have not done anything wrong, but they have been wronged by the State. [[The president calls.]] It's been acknowledged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u13	A respectable president. When it was decided that the 4 billion productions in 2019 would be reduced because the changes were not ready and we said that we could all be expected to install a new system on April 1. Unfortunately, we read about it in the papers regarding the solutions that have been prepared for many years, from the time that Pétur H. Blöndal led them to work long ago, which is now under the leadership of a new social minister, Ásmmar, the Ásmundur of Daðason, and the task force he has put in the case, unmistakably to the conclusion, but this conclusion is rejected by the Arkic Coalition. The solution on the table is taking a dollar off, but it is rejected. You can't isolate a dollar from another system change. I sincerely hope that April 1 doesn't come up without a conclusion. But it is the Microcolleague union itself that rejects the solutions that have been in the building for this long period of time. Of course, it's hard to see. But we have made sure that from this year onward, we have provided four billion each year. I hope there's a good conclusion on this subject. This will lead to the impairment of the condition. A senator refers to history, just as it was meant in the pension system, to abdicate a dollar to the degree of impairment we always call it, but, in effect, it was introduced at its time as a special supply for those who had remembered it. That's what this was all along, a special extension for those who had remembered. And now we're going to make the special process of improving the system through the system change. I have to say just as I'm concerned that these years of conversation, this conversation, it doesn't work, at least I'll tell you. I'm not happy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, but unfortunately they are a disgrace. At any rate, the cost of a dollar is clear, but according to four billion, that is not enough. Where's the difference? Why have they not corrected new farm inhibitions in those who have no income from abroad as promised, and should they do so right away? As a result, their refusal to sign is a complete form of suspicion, so it is not surprising that they refuse to sign. I'm incomprehensible, considering today's situation and from what has been achieved on this committee, that the government does not see to it that it does so right away. Why are people always being threatened? We're being threatened with skills. People are afraid of that word, and it will not help because it is quite clear that threats to the microchip are causing a loss of job. They don't get apartments. They don't get anything unless they swallow a job estimate. [[The president calls.]] This is not welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u15	A respectable president. Now, I have to keep my company minister out of the way. This is in the case of a social minister, and there has been a great deal of work under his leadership and those he has received in order to get a successful result. I feel that he has been well aware of that work here at the council. It's not a threat to anyone. They're trying to produce professional and social benefits because we're building our rights, strengthening the overall efficiency of energy in Iceland, and giving the people who have so far fallen into a set trap in the system an opportunity to enjoy their workers without having any other rights. That's what ideologies are about. I don't think there's any time or circumstances here to clear this up. I just state that for my part, it's extremely important that you make good peace. We have set aside a wealth of money to finance the change, and it is not to be minimized. Four billion are a substantial sum of money, and with the change of system, the decline is being proposed. A senator talks about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u16	Mr. President. I'm also asking about the proposed cryo-conservation to the SEC. This freezing process, as reported earlier, results in a decline in both inflation and population growth in the coming years. It is, in fact, justified by a reference to the expected cooling of the economy. It is well - known that if the government combines its sails when the private sector does, the problem becomes worse. The response of the government to the cooling of the economy results in further cooling. It's some kind of genius economy that I don't know that the government is supporting the decline and that it deepens rather than pushing against them and swinging them. It's very strange economics. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance how this is going to be under consideration. It may be that there is something else to do in an effort to resolve this, but you have to know: Will anything be done to meet the real atrophy of most rural societies? Is the objective of the government to cause further hardships in the business of the government? Bear in mind that the Slurpee Fund of rural society is, among other things, To meet rural communities because of school management, the disabled, and other activities that the State has brought to rural society over many decades, usually during the reign of the Independence Party, without financial support. We have to figure out if we're going to squeeze our communities or if it's some kind of voodoo economy, which is to support the decline swings, perhaps something we don't want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u17	A respectable president. Most of the things said here do not hold a view. Substitution in which our communities are involved, I just don't recognize the down cycle in which the communities are involved. They're not going down, they're not going down, they've been in a tremendous swing. The income has been growing, the proportion has been improving, the service level has increased. It's just a good look ahead for the locals. There is no subject for a deep discussion of financial relations between state and rural society based on the ideas established at a meeting in the Ministry of finance on one point. The recent discussions with rural society have been about many things. I mentioned earlier that the state had handed over to the rural communities, to keep up with its future pension bonds, over 20 billion years ago, with no legal obligation to do so. We are also involved in the development of transport in the next tens of billions of years. We have placed in the Constitution that we are open to conversation about the host's fee and its possible contribution. We get the demand to finance in some way, e.g. the tax wills, or some kind of support, corrosion issues that are rampant in many places, are financing projects that are extremely difficult for smaller and smaller rural communities. We're having a conversation with the locals about the problems of the disabled because of the NPA help. We're having a conversation with our rural communities over the introduction of investment needs associated with travel services. I could keep going down that list. Health issues would arrive there early on the surface, such as Service contracts for aging services and such. To put the matter in context, when we're in the middle of a conversation about spending billions of dollars in the years to support the objective of the local community, that there is some evidence that the state is going to make it difficult for the communities, although it is mentioned at a meeting that contributions in an equation may be temporary instead for two years, if we consider it to be 700 million next year, I feel like making bogs of bogs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u18	Mr. President. It is good to hear from all these billions of people. But now it sounds like the highest. Secretary of finance is answering the question he wanted to hear rather than the question I asked. I was talking about the expected downturn of the economy, and a lot of people assume it. The fact that this particular cryo-conservation occurs concomitantly is very strange. Seven hundred million may not be a lot of money, but it's natural for the first year. This will increase as time passes. What will happen in 2022? Bear in mind that in the last seven years, the government of the country has been drifting across six of its rural governments. My debt has not improved in a very pronounced way. She's been getting a lot better with the state, not with locals. Isn't this just the traditional case of Independence Party; a contraction when it's well spent, because it can't reveal any money, and a contraction when it's bad, because there's no money? And then, in fact, something is justified here and there as necessary. But can we not get some practical explanation for why this freezing process is important today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u19	A respectable president. With all due respect, boy. A senator talks a lot of nonsense. Consequences of Independence Party in Turbulence? Where is this contraction? Has the senator looked at the framed expenses of the financial budget, the primary budget? Can the senator read financial programs and budgets from year to year? Where's the contractions they're talking about? We are defending astronomy beyond what we were doing a few years ago on the major issues, whether health or social, education, transportation. We are in the middle of a campaign for transportation. And what? A senator says we've been moving a contract in good times. It's amazing to listen to this. And ideas that in financial relations between the state and the community, because of the equations, any continuation of this policy? I don't know what the hell you're gonna answer, it's such a load of shit. We are simply going to continue a conversation with our rural society and reach conclusions that both of us can enjoy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u20	Mr. President. For the council today, there is a work programme bill on coastal fishing arrangements that are expected to promote a particular experiment made during the last season of fishing. It made significant changes in the design of the coastal seas for experimental purposes. It is noteworthy that, on a relatively short notice, the immediate development of these changes should be permanent. So I want to ask the highest. Minister to the Department's access to this job. Has the Ministry been requested any assessment of the effects of recent changes? Does the Ministry feel safe to state that these changes have fully come true? Because such dramatic changes as they were made may result in significant changes over the long term, i.e. that it may take some years for these changes to fully occur. What interests me especially is why this matter is not being handled and prepared in the Ministry. There is a future arrangement for coastal fishing in this country, which is at the highest level. Minister. Is it, therefore, of any interest to me that the case is not being done at the Ministry, which would raise questions: Does it not fully support the changes presented here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u21	A respectable president. I'll just start by saying that this case is fully supportive. I have had a very good cooperation with a professional committee and her executive in particular, who has been working this case and the changes made in the coastal fishing system for some time and was in charge of the changes made last year. In all estimates of knowledge and cooperation in that system, there were ideas, changes that went very well, and was a general pleasure for those looking at the system. I can quite admit that at the beginning I was not a beach hunter, so to speak, but I am quite aware that this is coming to be, and then we must assume that it will be done in the best and most practical and safe way. I believe that the changes made to the head of a professional network last year were very beneficial. There has been no assessment of this on the part of the Ministry or anyone else. There was an assessment of the leading changes made last year, but the changes have not been made. On the other hand, all members of the committee are on the bill, all of the committee is on what is an excellent example of universal growth, that the committee conducts a case she conducted last year. Of course, we have been assigned by the Ministry to try to create the matter in such a way that it can become the best and fully support the work that is being done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary, a clear answer. That's what I'm thinking, that's what I've heard from the highest. Minister, that these changes have generally been made a fine swing. But we've been lying on our neck for a while, so that there's not enough work here to be done. Last year, the change was made temporarily. I believe there are many factors that will take some time, i.e. that these changes can be fully affected. So it may be reasonable to ask, before it is decided to validate these changes in no time, whether it would have been advisable to give this a little longer test period and before the council took the step to the finish, and whether it was not a normal and careful practice that the decision was made on the basis of some assessment of the case and not just a general voice that it was rather appealing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u23	A respectable president. Yes, in many ways it is possible to agree with the view that goes by. A senator said that it would have been desirable to have more and more work to do. Yet, I am making it clear that the change we made in a fine solidarity last year was temporary. It's to me not an desirable condition, especially for the kind of sea parish under which, i.e. ... tohavethe coast fishing in some preliminary situation. ▪ Of the two evils, within the foals, I shall have it, I find it normal to apply the arrangement that everyone appreciates has gone very well. Of course, there are additional changes in the coastal fishing system in case of material and reasons. But there is a fine agreement that the change was successful, full of willingness to strengthen the foundation of that arrangement, and the result had to be done in that way. Just so it's repeated: I fully support it, and I just trust that, in time, we'll make checks of it and hopefully improve the existing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u24	President. Just before ten o'clock, I see an e - mail in which the president of the United States deportes to have a longer meeting in view of the fact that some members of the Parliament have requested a longer lunch break to hold a council meeting. I sent an answer to the president asking why and who wanted this. When I'm in the conference hall about 10:30, I realize that the president has responded by the time he arrived. 10,20 different members of the board wanted to meet. I don't know if any senators have seen this e-mail from the President. While it is true that the president has often reminded us that he is directing this meeting, the president is also required to consult with members of the council on the program, and I believe that this is not the right way to have peace and tranquillity and cooperation with members of the council - and to report to the council hall that he sees it any longer can stand. I don't agree with a president that it's an agreement, but of course the president is in charge of everything that happens here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u25	Mr. President. I also make a comment about how to do the highest. The president had some form of consultation with members of the council of the government opposition. I was at quite an interesting and important meeting when messages from the highest level. There was a president who was not aware of these intentions until I was in conference. But then it was too late to make some comments in this regard. I must insist that the President wishes to extend a council meeting... he will see to it that all members of the council are at least members of the council... are aware of their intentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u26	The president finds out that consultations or announcements of these changes were late last night, and that's when only President is found guilty, or rather his busy life where I was tied up at a meeting all night and didn't open an e - mail until something came to pass in the morning. Then I first saw this desire of the council groups to extend my lunch break. At the same time, I proclaimed that I would post a longer meeting if necessary because there are few regular meetings left. During the next week, most of the discussion about financial programs will take place if everything is going according to plan. I was aware of the interest of professional overseers in getting the issues on the schedule for the day's meeting to start working on them. One of them was discussed at the end of an unprepared question period, which is the preparation of a beach catch in the next spring. This was attempted by the president in his e - mail. It is justified criticism that this interaction would have been more likely to have been longer or better than done before a meeting had taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u27	Mr. President. Here, it may not be a big event and just another step in a pattern that you're beginning to realize is in this job. On the other hand, I wondered if three members of the Parliament have to face up, prospective financial programs that we can't see until tomorrow, the intuition tells me: "Why can't these members just meet tonight? A creative project manager might now suggest that we kept our schedule intact so that it would have an effect on the rest of us who are not about to meet, because we have no financial strategy to examine, and members of the members of the government just met tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u28	It's a long and rich tradition for us to be on request for a council meeting if they come in. Their wishes have been more frequently expressed by members of the councils of government opposition than by members of the council. The president sees it as a dedication to accept such ideas well. It's about extending lunch time by half an hour and not too much of a given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u29	Mr. President. I thank you for explaining the sequence of events, and I have full understanding of such things, but this may not be the least of the reasons why we represent the government, feel compelled to come up here and criticize this practice. That's because of the pressures and other things we need because such announcements are being received earlier so they can be taken into account. True, you too would appreciate being offered the opportunity to accept such a request that is not unusual at such times. I agree with what you're saying. The chairman of the Conspiracy said that in the rest of the matter, it is certainly a song. It is not as if we have been in a council hall busy with the administrations to this point. This program was set before us. There is certainly some problem in the government's camp to resolve a matter, but there may be more time than throwing things ahead of time and going around from other sides to their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u30	Mr. President. Act of Congress, 80. .., says, with President's permission: Then the president has reason to believe that everyone is in one case or a outcome case is clear in advance - only then, with the permission of a president - ◯ Let him state that there is an unauthorized act if no senator demands that it be done. Then - only then - the President's declaration replaces a vote. Now President of Congress has told us that he only sent e - mails. He didn't have an answer yet. He could not be viewed as having an agreement. Then, at a meeting, he could not suggest that the matter be resolved without a vote. No one had to protest because a president was not allowed to start. Let's respect these rules. Time and again, there are no respected terms on the matter of Congress. On top of all of this, Porta's members and Porta council have sent direct instructions that no approval be passed by Congress party Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u31	The president does not intend to reason with one of his vice presidents. A vote for the President's proposal on the length of a meeting tonight. The president suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than a Senate conference can expect. Let's begin the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u32	Then we're in the right place. That's exactly what the President needs to do if he doesn't approve of all members of the council. Let's make this legal. [[How grateful the president's proposal is to be accepted as well as instruction and instruction in the council!]] [[Upwards: good.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u33	Mr. President. I also had no intention of arguing with the president here on a talk chair. I just wanted to remind you that we have limited our recent meeting classes, and we are going to do so in financial discussions. I just wanted to be right about the fact that it is very important for members of Congress to meet, but I want us to also respect the times that members of Congress have basically held sacred for meeting on Mondays and Wednesdays and for us to try to better respect them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u34	Mr. President. I hadn't seen how this vote was going to end, and I was in the building somewhere else. Have I believed that it was a tradition to call in a vote, so this surprised me, so I am quite a mother now after running up the stairs. But I would like this to be done regularly in the future, to be called in votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u35	The president would like to state that the members of Congress received a message that may be expected to be granted votes after the death of unsubstantiated queries. Under these circumstances, the president does not feel that he has to make a special phone call, as it is intended that the members of Congress be attending a meeting. True, they can be somewhere else, but they can find that they are quick and quick to the meeting even if they are somewhat disturbed. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize health insurance law, No. 112/2008, due to the new laws on identity protection and processing, the laws known as the People's Council adopted last summer. These laws are daily referred to as the Protection Act and will be used as short as possible in my case below. The bill is aimed at making necessary changes in the legal requirements of health insurance that are in accordance with the health Ministry for the management of personal information based on the relevant terms of the new personal protection laws. The impact of new environmental protection laws, such as the work of public institutions, must be distinguished from the effects the subject may have on the work of Iceland's Medical Insurance. Then it's just right that the bill isn't meant to bring about changes in Iceland's health insurance services. A respectable president. Under the Department of Health Services, there are laws that involve important rights and duties of citizens. On the basis of that law, often personal information is needed for individuals who may be sensitive, such as information about their health. At that, including we should be aware that in such cases, conditions for various types of assistance should be met. It is important that such information be done in addition to the fact that this work is in harmony with the new personal protection laws. Is that why the bill is now submitted? This is the change in one law column, i.e. The law on health insurance, but these changes are necessary following the implementation of the new protection laws. Iceland's health insurance works on the basis of the law and is expected the Agency to receive only the information necessary to qualify for its legal role at any given time. At the same time, the bill emphasizes that prior to the introduction of information, relevant individuals have received information about the proposed collection as possible to ensure reasonable, transparent implementation of the individual. So in the bill it is assumed that further refinement will be made to the relevant laws for the processing of information required so that Iceland's health insurance can carry out its legal duties. It should be noted that while the observed changes are necessary following the implementation of the new personal protection laws, it is not expected that laws should be specifically referred to in the changes made by the bill to the relevant law. This is because the laws of the new protection laws generally apply to the entire process of personality information and are therefore expected to produce personal information on the basis of the laws that the bill assumes that change will remain in accordance with the principles of the personal protection law, as has been done in spite of the subject of the bill. A respectable president. This bill was on the basis of a new personal protection principle, but the processing of the bill was examined by other law columns that hear under the health minister and was concluded that they were fundamentally compatible with the new personal protection laws. However, there is reason to examine the activities of the institutions and the processing of personal information better and possibly more clear processing documents specifically and to re-create thoroughly. It is therefore planned to submit another bill of injury at the next assembly. Work on such a bill is already started in consultation with the Office of the Ministry. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u37	President. B-jords 1st. The bill should add the following paragraph to Article 34. The law, by permission of the President: The National Security Agency shall inform the above members of the proposed information collection at the national level. 3 mg as much as you can do every time. They are obliged to inform applicants about all proposed Agency information collections. It is also important to inform applicants before the process of working on the purpose of the processing, the legal basis, the type of information being used, the duration of the information being preserved, and the transmission of information to others and to whom and why. Since it is a legal educational duty of the Agency based on a personal protection law, the need for the Agency to perform this responsibility is a little bit strumbling to the b- team as much as it can be done at any time. So I ask the highest. Ministers of why the health insurance institution should allow this space to actually violate the rights of registered individuals. Why is this so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. The reason for the wording is in that way. A senator rightly refers to a certain impossible. This may be a problem because it is not always an individual's initiative but that the very initiatives of the institutions who are seeking to fulfill the law and give the individual the rights they have rights. I think there's good reason to put the stitches on that point of yours. In the context of this committee, a member of the Parliament mentioned, especially to get Iceland's health insurance at a meeting of the Committee to discuss these concerns. Because it is of enormous importance that all precautions taken into consideration are being taken into account in such a delicate aspect of personal information, especially in the field of health care. Because it is, of course, where personal information is the most sensitive. As they know about those who have endeavored to score the sensitivity of the information available to individuals in the system, the information in the health field is certainly the most sensitive. That is why they need special attention. I want to thank you. A senator for the question, hoping to give it a chance. A welfare committee especially examined this factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u39	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. This was shown in the review of the Federal Protection Agency, sent to the Ministry of State on October 19, 2018. I would have considered it wise to comply with the proposals and proposals of the Peritoneal Protection of the Law on the basis of personal protection law, especially, as the minister said, since this delicate part is involved in personal information in the field of health care. I'd like to know why it wasn't done in this case. It would also be helpful to know if a minister intends to publish the Universal Protection, since I cannot see that it has been published anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u40	A respectable president. I thank you again for the inquiry. A relationship between the Ministry and Iceland's Medical Insurance that there is no indication in Peritoneal Protection in this case has been observed. But I feel that the exchange we have here is an important result of our consultation as a platform being used. A few years ago, the first reaction was that visible members of the council were, in effect, to be treated in a legal way. Today, members of Parliament can see at a much earlier stage exactly what material things they are, and they need to be specially sewed on. According to my sources, this is the reason the Ministry evaluated in order to prevent awareness from becoming a Persian protection. We are waiting for how this indication angers in the case of a child. The welfare committee. But the government is at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u41	A respectable president. We're dealing with personal protection laws, medical records or information relating to insurance agencies or other health insurance institutions in order to pay out legal benefits. Every time I see the sentence of a written consent to the candidate, I get a bit of chills because, unfortunately, the steps are agitating. There is no question that the worst thing a person can do is receive official information, whether it is from the government insurance agency or from the courts of insurance eaters, and read the information about himself that he did not know about and could not know in any way. What's worse, like what's worse. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen noted that in the bill it says that the health insurance agency should inform the party of the proposed information collection as much as possible. Sadly, this could mean that the person who has a right to be taken care of will be relieved because it could not be recovered. There can be nothing more pathetic. Those who have been in that position know that it will take a long time to get back into the system. We have a personal protection law and a Persian protection to guard them. I don't know how Persian protection is going to play a role when we still have information from courts where protection is not being done. They're still giving out sensitive personal information, names people in court documents. That must be one of the most pathetic things to be involved in being in a judgment document. You are a witness in a case, and you read it with a name very sensitive person information and you don't even know it. That's kind of the worst thing I've ever seen. I've read and seen information about parties in court documents that are striking, but the person doesn't even know it. I know that if he knew about it, he would have made comments about it. We are under obligation to make sure that no decisions are made regarding personal protection without the identity of the individual. That's why I'm saying in my own way that I don't understand the purpose of removing the words of the subject's written consent. The person involved must be the simplest person in the situation if the Agency wants to get more information from him to inform him about it and to have a copy of what the Agency is supposed to have. Thus, the person can always protect himself and check the correctness of the information. It is clear that there are many examples, even in court documents, of trying to deceive and simply false evidence. It sucks when you have to say in the General's symposium that you've seen that you're lying and telling things wrong and making a list of things you're doing. That this is going on and it can be used to cause harm to people makes it necessary for us to watch out every time we go out to change something that has to do with personal protection laws. I'm not gonna have this much further. I'll follow up on a welfare committee where I expect the case to go. I will insist that it is absolutely crystal clear that if the word is to be removed from a written consent to the person, it must be ensured that there is nothing to be done about it if there is no evidence in the case without it being informed, so that it can defend itself before performing. It's a minimum requirement because there's nothing more pathetic than getting something you didn't know about yourself and checking it out and then finding out that it was all wrong, that you put in the wrong information. If an individual finds that he/she is misinformed in any form of information that does not have any support, he or she needs to go and ask for access to the patient file. He needs to show IDs, wait a week, show identification again and sign them. At the same time, there are people out there who can do all of this without signing or asking for one or more things or over their heads. In fact, they usually get caught because they have to access a code and the computer's IP number shows who they are. These things are pathetic, and we have to stop them and make sure they're done already.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of the drug and addictive law that it is permitted to set up and run the waste space after the authority of the surgeon's office. Waste space is defined in the bill as a legal protection environment in which individuals 18 years of age and older can consume intravenous substances under the supervision of health care providers and careful hygiene, safety and infection protection. According to law on addiction and drugs, possession and treatment of addictive and drug abuse are prohibited in the Icelandic region. By granting the sufficiency proposed in this bill, there is a valid authority available for the establishment of a consumption area where addiction and drugs are permitted under the supervision of health care providers and in situations which minimise the risk of exposure, such as infections, overdoses, and other serious complications of the use of the medicinal product. The primary objective with the bill is to improve quality of life and improve the health of individuals who are using intravenous narcotics and drugs as well as to reduce the consumption of illicit drugs in public, in public areas, and thus to reduce overdose of addictive and drug abuse, and on the other hand, the use of syringes in the field. In particular, waste space is designed to reduce the health, social, and economic consequences of addiction and drug use without necessarily reducing their use. A cut - down will not only help people who use such materials but also their families, the local community of the user and the community. The World Health Organization and the European Union have discussed both destructive measures such as consumption resources that they consider to be an important factor in reducing different infectious diseases and death from overdose. The benefit of consumption has been divided into three categories, i.e. individual advantages for intravenous and intravenous dependence individuals and for their immediate community benefits, which are best seen in public areas, and finally of economic benefits mainly due to short term hospital periods, early intervention and lower drug costs for the treatment of HIV and hepatitis C diseases. As noted, Mrs. Ragnhem has been damaged by a special red cross - Cross car in Reykjavík, seeing individuals who consume intravenous drugs for clean syringe equipment and even necessary items, but additional services are needed for individuals such as public health care and hygiene, and a place where they can consume the materials in the best possible circumstances. A respectable president. This bill had a special look at neighboring countries, but some 90 waste space is now operating in many parts of the world. The performance in Denmark and Norway was specifically examined, with five consumers in Denmark and two people working in Norway. There and elsewhere it has been considered important that consumption activities should be defined as low threshold services. This means that all obstacles are removed in order to make it easier for individuals to make good use of the ministry. Then the service is specifically tailored to the need of peripheral individuals with a harmful decrease. The effects referred to include The overall attitude of the workers in health care, lack of confidence in the health care of individuals, open - up time for consumption, design and organization of space, location, waiting time, transportation, and remuneration. Then there is the need to provide services that care for basic needs of intravenous individuals, such as nutrition, hygiene status, clean syringe equipment, and clothing. They will also offer integrated health services, e.g. to prevent infections and provide psychological support. It also serves as a reference to drug treatments, specific health services, social counseling, and other education. The bill suggests that these items will be further implemented in a Regulation set up by the Minister for Agency and Drug Administration. A respectable president. The requested bill suggests that according to the surgeon's permission, it is permitted to set up waste space where individuals are allowed to consume addictive and otherwise prohibited drugs under law. Thus, it must be expected that those who are going to consume will be able to have the dose they intend to consume. Hence, it depends on police assessment at each time, whether or not criminal action will be taken against a person who can afford a way to consumption space, either by warning, by maintenance, by fines, or by charges. For the purpose of a community would be desirable to make a formal or informal agreement with the police on how law enforcement is to be carried out in the area of consumption, as is done in Denmark and Norway, where there is a agreement on criminal areas in the neighborhood of consumption. It is estimated that by contrast, consumption will be a place for individuals to consume substances into a vein. However, a different facility is expected where they can be given medical care. In accordance with local regulations for the institution and management of consumers, it will be decided that in each consumption space there will always be two personnel on duty and that one of them is a nurse and the other does not have to be necessary to be a healthcare professional. That is why the bill suggests that the section on health care professionals involved in the rights and duties of those working in a public setting. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that a user's penalties guarantee that a person's life is left in the space, as users will be made to sign a declaration that they are in their own responsibilities. At that time, employees working in consumers will be taught to deal with an overdose by using Naloxone, a medicine which reduces the effect of an overdose. A respectable president. The bill recommended here is an important step in protecting the life and health of people who live under a serious addiction that is not only life - threatening because of their consumption but also because of the danger of being consumed by the intravenous chemicals in an uncertain manner. During the past year, the need for the resources recommended here for legal approval has been unequivocally demonstrated in the face of demand for the services granted by Mrs. Ragnhemur ▪. Each year, some 450 people attend the service that is performed there, and an increase from year to year has been progressive since the year 2008 of Mrs. Ragnheld. The increase between 2017 and 2018 was 7%. It is also clear that additional services are needed for those who are involved and that the objective of this bill is to ensure legal requirements for such services. Then I've already decided to give 50 million. K. Strength to the Agency and consumption capacity on the basis of these laws, where the need is considered to be the most urgent. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u43	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for bringing this case to the Generals Hall. I appreciate that, it's a good thing. This is a free - minded matter and will have positive results if you look at it. But I have a few questions. Indeed, a minister came to see the importance of those rural communities who prefer to take advantage of this space, these resources, would have a casual or formal feature, depending on incident, cooperation with the police. It is shown by the bill that Norway has made such an informal agreement so that police officers are not encouraged to stop individuals, as the expression implies, who are on their way to consumption space, even though they can evaluate it at a time. Granted, it is important that the police do so. I wondered, " Is there no reason to go further and to be a clear message because I don't think any of us who are positive about this, and especially those who have it, health authorities, will see that individuals who intend to take advantage of it will be stopped? ' I'd like to get an explanation from the highest level. Minister: How was your conversation with the police? Is the deal taken? Will there be any counsel? Will any police officer or policeman have the authority to decide if he'll stop this? Does this depend on whether a person is not involved or looks bad, is unclean, or is aware of what? I think this is of considerable importance, especially in view of the fact that it is a great innovation, a great advancement, and most important of all because the way it is made up at the beginning will likely affect what the rest will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a positive decision in this matter. I agree with her, this is an enormous step in progress, and hopefully this is the first step of more people in adding resources to the signs of community damage. That's what we have to do. Since we are here to clear a new course, this small bill may not only be a sign of the change it involves but also a symbolic step toward making the law take it to the point of turning the law into a detriment. Hv. A senator specifically asked about his consultation with the police and the discussion. The plans to put this matter into practice were first put on the confidential talk, and then some comments were made. But when the bill was finished, there was a review, and it was from the Red Cross that supported it. So we have not seen in this formal process comments. On the other hand, we're making the bill totally aware of the position out there by conversation with the police, etc. The nature of the case, according to the police, must be careful about taking a direct stand on such issues, but, of course, the law will still follow. When the law is changed, there will also be changes in the police work environment. It seems less frequent to use penalties against people with consumption rations, anyway, that is, in fact, the reality that is out there. In time, the lawgiver may need to take it for a special consideration, in order to build the law on the actual project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u45	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I look forward to seeing this in a further discussion of the welfare committee. It is absolutely true that this may be just the reality that exists among people who consume their doses. That'll be a good discussion. In the second round, I want to ask a minister that today these consumption levels, the nature of the matter, for people 18 years of age and older, and for that reason there are good reasons, but it's a fact, unfortunately, that an increase in drug abuse is also high among young people under 18 years of age: Is the health authorities considering new resources, any new means of helping them minors, whether they are directly damaged only or some form of cooperation? Unfortunately, we have to face up to the fact that what has been done so far has not been achieved, not if you look at the numbers of increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Clearly, the problem or subject is a cause. A senator mentions reality, and this is part of the environment we have here. We might ask ourselves: " What happens if someone comes into consumption space and is under 18? What will we do in such cases? Clearly, the legal adjustment proposed here is not about that group. Actually, the person should be rejected. But one might ask: Is it not better for the person to get adequate information with a nurse? But then we are actually entering a child - welfare field and in a different area, where health authorities can make a decision in the manner suggested in this bill. In other words, when children and young people are able to put such things into words, the misunderstanding is increasing, so the child protection issues come to pass. Such governments would then have to come up with options that would have to be tailored to children and young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u47	Mr. President. I want, just like what you're doing. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, expressed my joy in this bill's arrival and declared my support for its progress at the council. Hv. In fact, a senator before me had the question that I was most interested in discussing to protect these individuals when they are on their way to and from consumers. I wondered, just like the highest. A minister spoke of, insurgentness for health care professionals involved in this, whether such a approach needs to be considered. I think about it, too, based on the security and the logic of penalties. If there is a possibility of not using drugs - that is just the way it is, the law - how do we explain it and how it comes to courts, and how can it be clear to the people who are going to or from sleep that it may be punished for it, but perhaps not? V.E.G. A minister pointed out that the praxis from the police was negligible in arresting people for doses of consumption. I wondered if she has any evidence to support this, and if it isn't exactly, like the highest. A minister only turned aside, due to a crime of drug abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the question and the support of the case. As I stated in my opponent, it is clear that we are taking a step that is not just about this matter. It is about so many questions that arise and many subjects that could truly be the next step. That is why I think it is extremely important for the council to complete the case now, even though it leaves new questions. If we are going to get a complete grip on the matter in a complete way, in all of them, what if there are questions that arise? I share speculations. The senator's security and clarity, etc. The question of course. A senator is certainly the next question. It is a discussion that should be part of the welfare committee coverage on this subject. Although we are also there with a definition problem, as we have previously spoken in connection with other matters - what is that, what is the consumption dose in each case? But it's something we're dealing with in the present, and we're out there in the community where 450 people are looking for Mrs. Ragnhein's services, the general council can't help but ask themselves these questions. We have to take them on. I'll be happy if it's all right. The welfare committee considers it part of the Commission's discussion to discuss these issues as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I agree that, of course, these questions are not to delay the situation at all. We're talking about the next step, and I certainly think it's important that we look at doses of crime. But I may also want to refer to one thing that I find very important to the next step, and it involves another group that is extremely sensitive. It's prisoners who use drugs. I have found that what I have read about prisoners'circumstances and that the damage to prisoners is very limited in Iceland. According to all the organisations involved in these issues, prisoners are the most sensitive group and are at the highest risk of becoming ill due to consumption and are more likely to be absorbed than other groups in society. The reduction in prison feels very important to me as the next step to take. Prison authorities have often suggested that safety inhibits, for example, the degree of security involved. So on the other hand, by going to prison less harmful measures, we are acknowledging that they have a problem, which I think must just happen. Denial does not go on and on, denying problems that certainly exist. And because we were talking about the next step, I wanted to keep this up. This case is certainly an enormous step, and I think it's very important how we approach it with the doses, which would solve other problems, the way police treat people who are coming to or from consumers. For young people, I just wanted to make it possible that at music festivals and other places where young people are known to be using some drug, members of other countries have tents where people can test their drugs, and this has increased the safety of these children mainly. [[The president calls.]] It also needs to be considered whether these children will be found by the police and will try to take their doses or what they are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u50	A respectable president. I still thank you for the inquiry. I'd especially like to catch the ball where it's at. A senator brings up prisoners' issues. We have been discussing a lot of health care with prisoners, and we may have been talking primarily about mental - health matters that have not been just insufficient but that have not been for years in Iceland. Still, we are in the process, and hopefully we have negotiations to complete in that regard, we have a general health care center, and we need to complete what is called the mental - health service for prisoners. But that group was. A senator mentions the need for a complete approach, starting from the time of judgment to the time of the remaining sentence. It's a continuous path into the lives of people who land there, and maybe the damage to the approach. A senator may mention, which is just a way to approach the reality that is truly in prisons, part of reviewing the ideologies behind the incarceration in Iceland. I realize that it belongs to a lawsuit of another minister, but I think the Icelanders have to take a step towards seeing more punishment than a punishment needle, and I think that part of it is approaching the individual in the social context he is rather than as an individual who is to be treated only for a certain period of time, and that's all that is still chosen thereafter. We know, which knows more and more about mental health, etc., that the first person lives a long time. We know that this is all about life, so we need to approach this group in a complete and complete way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u51	President. Today, there is reason to rejoice that this important and good matter has now come to the Council and to the council. As a minister, this bill approves of a legally protected institution and organisation, where subjects over 18 years of age can safely use intravenous drugs under observation and careful hygiene, safety, and infection protection. As noted in the bill's report on the matter, this is due to the interpretation of a policy in reducing the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse submitted at the time by Birgitta Jónsdóttir and the Congress party of Porta, along with representatives from all classes at the 143th Actual Assembly. The proposal was approved on May 16, 2014 and sent to the government. It was the responsibility of the government to revise drug policy on the basis of solutions and humanitarian instruments on the basis of the health and social systems for the help and protection of the consumers and their social rights, their partners and the community as a whole. At that time, a health minister was assigned to appoint a task force in order to achieve the development of the policy. The task force was three-way: First, a review of the current legal environment, to set out the subject accurately and to prepare the legislation and/or new legislation. Second, consider the legislation of other countries, where there has been no criminal policy related to the use of illicit drugs and fortification of international committees and research institutions for the prevention of drug abuse. And third, create a comprehensive policy that focused on human sensitivity and the protection of human rights, which reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse by promoting greater confidence in the community and the institutions to provide them with services and shelter. The synopsis of the synonym began with a quote from Kofi Annan, whom I would like to repeat by permission of the president: ▪ It is my belief that drugs have ruined the lives of many people, but the wrong policy of the government has destroyed many more lives. We need to look at the course and ask ourselves earnestly and honestly; does it work? If it doesn't work, do we have the courage to change it? President. The agreement with this body of council proposals marked a turning point in government policy with the social problems involved in drug abuse. From the very beginning of the government's beginning to notice that in this country the use of drugs may be quite widespread, policies based on punishing people for all treatments, whether for their own consumption or for the sale or for distribution. It's also seen in the fact that addiction and drugs law have never had a full reexamination. To a large extent, we are still operating on the same policy as this set up in 1974. Following the repeated failures of police campaigns and the government against drug addicts, public opinion here in the country is finally changing. People are beginning to believe that it may be more appropriate to help people in trouble rather than to persecute and punish them. It is in this atmosphere that a party party party of Porta and all other classes of Congress were submitted, and lastly agreed together with the support of all classes. That's why her approval is so important. It marks the beginning of an important and broad change in government policy, which I sincerely hope will continue after this vital step by the health secretary. Following the approval of the proposal at the General Assembly, a group was appointed according to its instructions. He completed his assignment in 2016 and received his report from the health - care minister who introduced it to the General. The results of the group contained 12 suggestions for action to be taken. I think it's important to swerve them to remind us of the work to do. The first suggestion was prison punishment for possession of doses of consumption. It's not been changed in the law. Unfortunately, it seems that work on it has stopped. While it is unclear where it is, it is obviously with the Minister of Justice, it must be a project to be carried out in consultation with a health minister. It would be interesting to hear from the health minister where that work is, whether she knows it. Another suggestion is that there is no criminal criminal criminal record. It's not over yet. There is only a level of substance driving blood measurements. I guess it's into the new traffic bill, which is a big improvement, and it's supposed to be a celebration. Fourth suggestion: withdrawal, hospital treatment, and a variety of options. It is not finished, I understand. Access to a clean syringe device and limber service. Mrs. Ragnheiður is taking care of them right now. Minimum treatment guidelines, as the matter does not appear to be complete. HIV and hepatitis C screening in drug-induced individuals. I don't know where that case is as it is now, in terms of consumption space, which is this bill. That was the eighth suggestion. The ninth suggestion is non-employmental health care for peripheral groups. I understand it's not over yet. A crime - related community - it's not over. Prisoners have the same rights, and they're not over. The 12 - year suggestion for the advancement of research and prevention is given. I don't know exactly where that project is. Well, over two years later, after these suggestions came up, we have produced only some of these proposals. I have been concerned that the government's willingness to comply with this controversies has been reduced. That when it really comes to deporting the course of criminal possession and causing damage, the will of the government may be lower than it seemed before. That's why I'm so happy that this bill is here to get to the 1st. I hope so much that we can guarantee the good and quick treatment at the council. I know I'm going to make sure the case's good and I'm going to give it a shot, at least on a welfare committee, so I'm sure. I would like to encourage the minister and the government all to further activity in continuing to engage in criminal abuse and delinquency. If the goal is to build a community based on compassion and compassion for our neighbor, it is necessary to continue this course, not only because of compassion and compassion for our neighbors but also because this is the reasonable way for society to be so. V.E.G. In the past, a minister spoke of her joy over the role of a well - being committee to discuss this matter in the large context. Of course, the big relationship is the crime - threatening use of drugs. I agree with that word. How important it is to discuss this in the large context! I agree that although we haven't answered all the facts and we haven't cleared up exactly where we're headed in these matters, we can't stop progress and that a good case can go through even if it raises further questions. So we just need to answer those questions and do the other things as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u52	Mr. President. Yes, I can't resist taking advantage of the opportunity to stand here with joy and gratitude in the public talk. The fact is that at the same time as we who are in a government opposition, we should be alert and active to the government, and hear us when we count reasons, it involves a responsibility to stand up and support the progressive steps we believe are taking. It's just a case like that. That is truly praiseworthy of the highest. Minister to submit the bill. This has long been called forward, and the need is great. The fact is, it grows in time and tremendously fast. We are now living with the knowledge that addiction is a disease and should be treated as such and accordingly. It simply means, as with other diseases, that we need to give people the support to cope with addiction, with access to different treatments on their own terms, rather than to treat people who become addicted to drugs that carnivorous criminals. Rather than rule out social addictions, looking in the other direction, being grateful for not being in that group, or forcing people to go to one particular form of therapy that has proved to be extremely limited, this is the right way. Although consumption space has not been operated by rural society on the basis of these laws, as a community, we have been blessed with the positive effects of this approach through the detriment of the volunteer forces of Mrs. Ragnhein, such as the Supreme Court. A minister mentioned in his speech. On their roads, a specially used car has been driven among individuals who are part of these peripheralized groups in the community, such as the homeless and individuals who use drugs intravenously. Six times a week, if I'm right, they are offered help on their own terms, where clean needles, syringes, sharps container, advice, and other items needed to reduce the risk of infection of life - threatening diseases that are easily supplied with consumption. One of the most positive effects of this service, except for the personal effects, is to reduce peripherality, which is very important for all communities, especially in modern times, as well as reduce the pressures on the health system, the pressures associated with hazardous drugs. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister earlier, these three types of profit, i.e. The personal, the social, the financial one. Some of the releases have been tested in Iceland and the experience of this solution is good and is therefore likely to rest in a certain way. I'd like to point to the review of the Red Cross in the consultation riddle. It speaks of drinking space being found a home that is not directly related to other facilities for drug users, homeless persons, i.e. will not be in the situations people are reluctant to face. In that case, I especially refer to women who are often exposed to a specific abuse if that is the case. I can see in a paper with the bill that it's the same thing as it's been headed for most other places. It is also important, according to the study of the projector of the Red Cross, and those who have considered this matter with reference to what is being done in the countries around us, that the location is central, near the needs. Then we may have this location of everyone in one piece, so it is a challenge, but it is all very important to bear in mind. Then it is also another matter that if you reach your goals, you need to ensure that privacy consumers are secure and that the police can support the activities of the space, its sources are so clear that the safety of users is guaranteed in the same way that they continue working against the crime that is often linked to drug and drug abuse. I went through it with the highest. A minister earlier and received answers and trusted them, hoping that they will continue to be won. At the end, I would like to mention that it is necessary when such consumers are established on the basis of these laws that they will be based on the experience of the organizations that have worked in destructive resources. I'm going to mention Mrs. Ragnhei again, i.e. The Red Cross, Miss Ragnhök, Konkot, The Cloud and all. How important it is that these individuals, who have experience and knowledge, have confidence in those who need this service to continue. We are very inclined to look at the Prarkish points, but it is the trust that really matters if we make good use of these resources as hoped for. I had a chance to say something at the highest. Ministers for drug dependent individuals, especially for intravenous substances, and their safety, are under 18 years of age. I wish to cooperate with the government, the Child Welfare and the Supreme Authorities. A minister of well-being there, shall be examined and expanded in some possible way. Because all the evidences that this is a very good remedy for 18 years and older are equally appropriate for younger ones. Other than that, I thank you for this case and support the highest level. A minister's mind is to get it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u53	Mr. President. We'll talk to a bill at the highest. A health minister to fix a change in drug and addictive law called consumption. I think that's a special reason to give the highest commendation. Minister and Ministry for the contributions of this case. Reading the report and review of the case, it is evident that there has been considerable effort in the Ministry to create the case effectively in order to ensure that the end would be possible to lure its condents. This is all very important, and in view of the fact that we are here dealing with a very sensitive community group, a group that may not have very many proverbs in the community, is under attack, and is subject to addiction as a disease that even a part of society is not even involved in agreeing to be a disease. It is no simple matter to carry the problem with us, and it may be more and less likely at all times that society or part of the community is in the hands of a rod or a word of reproof that the person is sick or ill. It's a bad situation. The bill also presents itself in a legal situation that has lived in many respects. We've been with, like I heard, some of us. Senators enter, mobile consumption space. The help available in Konkotti may be found, although it is naturally not a consumer space, but e.g. paraesthesia and support are somehow comparable to the help of I assume there would be an alternative to consumers. It has only been established in the report that some kind of cooperation with the police and law enforcement authorities would have to be ensured in place. Of course, we know that in a practitioner's sense, we are most likely talking about setting up one or two of these measures in Iceland. There's a very low possibility that this would be more common. But just because it is most likely that it would be installed in Reykjavík and that in some way would be financed by the city, it might have to be specifically discussed with the city in what way it would be doing. The bill expects attention from health care providers as well as from normal care. This work must be paid and properly arranged, and it is all right. It must also, according to the nature of the case, be sure not only of the security of those who attend this service but also of those who work there and look after them. At that time, members of the Parliament have also established issues that concern people under 18 years of age. The bill does not expect the law to apply to anyone who is 18 years old or older, if it does happen. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister, then in cooperation with the minister of social and child care, to continue working to solve the problems and then naturally in cooperation with the Children's Institutes, possibly Support or at least to get advice from these partners, because we also need to make sure that these individuals have, I don't know if it's right to call it the same but at least the same possibility for services and resources as the older ones. In the drug - abuse world, perhaps nothing really changes on the day of his 18 - year - old age except that he becomes 18 and thus legally 18 years old. Therefore, it is important that the lawgiver and the user look to this group in particular. I suppose that's what. The welfare committee is given this matter for discussion. I'm expecting the committee to take care of it. I'll at least. ... andusemetodoit. I hope so. Senators would agree with me that this is a great legal arrangement for a particular group, a small group, but a group in a very difficult situation, and therefore every reason for us to do what we can to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u54	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law, with subsequent changes, in the use of drugs. It involves primarily those who abuse drugs and drugs, which are peripheral in society, social, and material. I was going to return to the minister of the minister's history, but I was fully forward, so I decided to put myself on the rosary. I'm not going to extend it much, but I like the bill and the idea of helping people in this community, who are drug addicts, and who are often in a very bad position with tools that cause infections to develop, to give the opportunity to be in a better position. As the bill says, the experience in other countries is considered. I think this progressive step is to meet our smallest brothers and sisters. But I wanted that perspective - and that's kind of the question that I would have wanted to ask the minister - to mention that the multi-developed waiting lists into rehabs are not to be shortened. There's nothing about that case in the right direction, that I think. Perhaps the minister can tell us more about it. I'm much worried that it shouldn't be developing in a better direction. A lot of addicts, people in that position, yearn to get out of their habit. The window of addicts, who are in this place in life is often very small or do not often open, the window that is willing to take the step into treatment, take the step to get help, and accept it. A significant number of the individuals are on the lists I just mentioned. This is how the treatment centre, at least in the SA, provides a number of beaking sequences. If you apply for the first time in treatment, you will be re-introduced. Those who are very ill, life - threatening sick, get first, and often work together with the Land Hospital, if they are in a bad way in having to go to intensive care or something like that. They are also back in the row that is often called in the treatment homes of the return workers and women. It is more often than not homeless people, and much of it is kept drug addiction. I would have wanted to ask the minister if there was no subsequent procedure to take the step of going to the station job. People at the treatment center are very specialised, and often the top staff in the world's treatment areas, I'll let me say because I've studied it. These people have achieved tremendous success. About 50% of subjects who complete their therapy e.g. YES are still inactive alcoholics two years later. Thus, the results are vast. Some have to treat more than once, and there are those who are virtually on the street. It is very common for individuals to need two, three, four treatments for success, which is normal within the therapeutic core. It is not unusual for an individual to need three, four treatments. Then comes the light: Yes, it was what I had to do to succeed. It is often a small number that rolls a large pile in that context. I'm going to drop this off because a minister sits in the gym and asks if we can't join in the work to actually shorten a waiting list of alcoholic and drug treatment stations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u55	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more than anyone else who comes up here and wants to comment. It's very classic for politicians. I just wanted to say that although I welcome the attitude of this bill and actually believe that it's the right way, I find it quite difficult too. I feel that in some way we are accepting a certain surrender. But there are times when life is like that, so much is beyond our control. At times, we simply need to take action. Well, I believe that for such a leading group as we look into this matter, it is certainly better to consider safety than the rest. I just wanted to say that although we welcome this initiative, I also find it very difficult to take this step, and I think many other members of the council may think so. Sadly, I was not able to attend the entire discussion because I had to be elsewhere, but I know that only the legal program has been established. True, it is somewhat contrary when we say that this is an illicit drug, yet it is in some situation that we are not going to react to it when people are in a particular situation. I'm not saying that I don't support the bill because I do, and I'm so glad that it's at the council. We get information from professionals, and then we can take in informed and professional discussions about the situation and how to respond to it. But I reiterate what I said, I find it difficult, and we'll always have to babysit the prefect. There must always be no. one, two, and three, try to prevent people from ending up in the situation that we need to react with something like a lot of consumer space.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u56	A respectable president. Today, we are discussing an important subject, and I agree with the comments of those who say it is a joyful event to discuss this subject and to approach this subject with an open mind as indicated by this bill. This is an important subject, both meaningful and material, perhaps not undisputed, and may be able to operate on someone as a weighty moral subject. You will see here a number of deep - seated views, established standards of morality, community service, humanitarianness, law and rules, and professionalism. I think, a respectable president, that most people, above all, wanted to use all their energy to support and work for the prevention and prevention of substance abuse and drugs of any kind among us young, promising, and impressive youth or people of all ages who even fight for their lives in these great estates, instead of meeting individuals in this difficult situation in the shadow of human life in which the struggle is intense. But like all other people, we resolve to give these parts of our association the hope of improved quality of life and self - respect in circumstances that have become his lot. It's not a big group, but it needs support. All of this is being accomplished, as shown in a report with the bill, according to the UN target and as the highest. During his tour, a minister has examined this from health authorities around the world, all of which bear the same well. The bill suggests that the surgeon general's office will be authorized in consultation with rural society to open and operate the so-called consumption space in which individuals 18 years of age and older are allowed to use addictive drugs in the most safe setting and under the supervision of health care professionals where men and women are careful of careful hygiene and safety as far as possible seek to prevent infection. Necessity is supported by ideologies of vandalism, which includes reducing the health, social, and economic consequences of the use of narcotics, whether legal or illegal, without necessarily aimed at reducing the use of addictive and drug in these situations, although it is always an underlying factor that we have all resolved to work on. As shown in the bill, harm is not only for people who use the materials as the highest. A minister entered, including families, closer to society, and indeed the whole community. The key element of this ideologies is also that in these measures it is recognized that many people in Iceland and other parts of the world continue to use addiction and drugs despite all efforts for prevention, education, and prevention in order to prevent drug abuse or continued use of the substances. We know every discussion that starts at regular intervals about contact in the public room and even in the open play areas of children, using needles, and markers that could be dangerous. This is caused by the school directors and, of course, by parents. One of the primary purposes of this bill is to reduce the consumption of narcotics outside the door and in public, thus reducing the use of syringes in the field. Therefore, it is obvious that alternatives such as consumption space are needed for individuals who consume these substances intravenously to minimise the risk and damage to continued use. Some may feel that in this step there is a defeat or a surrender, a struggle to lose. On the contrary, I do not see it that way, in a sense, is a triumph of the mind. We are face - to - face with the facts, these destructive forces, and this is a better way to deal with this problem. A discussion about such options has been made by some in this country for the past few years. It is reason to give up the fine initiative, Frú Ragnheiður, as has been observed here before. It is a demeaning tool that is operating in the capital area, which has been done since 2009. Similar resources are also available in Akureyri, that resource is called Miss Ragnheur, and it is the Red Cross that has taken the initiative and carried this job partially or extensively in professional volunteer work. The goal is to include peripheral populations in the community, the homeless, and those using intravenous drugs. Here we are following a bit of ice in terms of the legal environment, but I feel very respectful about the way we are seeking to approach this subject. Mrs. Ragnhein's provisions is a mobile service, a special automobile traveling through the capital area most evenings of the week. True, it's only available at night and desirable, and I think that's the idea, that this will be an option that will be at least all day long, but there's gonna be a need for day - to - day service in the future. We'll find out more about that. As we have seen, there are many services and services rendered to people in this environment, and these are good. It is health counseling, and it can include extensive shopping, general health counseling, and important disposal services. These activities have proved their value, established in their place, while those in the service feel that by their experience the construction needs to be strengthened and that they may be even more able to deal with and adapt to the conditions in which they live, e.g. when you take too much medicine. In many countries, consumers are health professionals who work there to use a specific medicine to reduce the effects of overdose. I don't know a lot about it here, but it's been limited. It is good to know that Mrs. Ragnhein's experience has helped prepare this subject that we are discussing today. A respectable president. The model for this ministry is found in many parts of the world around us. In 2012, Denmark, which is close to us, started a similar operation, and in Norway, earlier, in 2004, where the first consumption took place in 1981, the Netherlands. Today, this space is around the world, and likely about 90 numbers are the same as shown in the report. A respectable president. Thank you so much for today. A minister for giving this bill to the Council and granting the Senate a chance to discuss this persistent and social issue that leaves no one unsatisfactory. I personally feel that this is a simple path of reason and practicality, that, so to speak, we look at the facts of life, with our naked eyes, do not place our binoculars to the blind eye, as we have sometimes been. I feel that they are reflected in this bill, that this reality should be viewed as real as it is, not perhaps as we would like it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u57	A respectable president. I am so happy that this bill is held at the General Assembly of the Icelanders and is giving the highest commendation. A health minister sincerely thanks her for the fact that this has taken place at the General Assembly. It is a huge step for us as a nation. It has also been a great pleasure to witness how the discussion has been in the Assembly Hall today. It's been spoken with calmness and calmness. Talk has been unbiased, realistic, as it were. paritaprevir The Guvigner of S. Brjánsson came in just moments ago. There's obviously a cross-cutting agreement on this important subject, and I'm kind of celebrating more than I can put into words. In recent decades, waste space is one of the greatest improvements in the world's damages. In view of consumption, it is normal to look to Canada, which leads to Canada's success. There will be very rare deaths due to overdose, and the reason is two: it has a similar consumption space, and we are talking about today, and the bill is about as much emphasis as it is in Canada, with all work around the damage to the medicine Narcan. Actually, the Narcan-free consumption room is a little like a liquor store that only sells skirts. I asked you a question to the highest level. Minister of health at the last council, to remind me if there is any increased access to this medicine, Narc. So I'll go out to a little bit about why the medicine Narc is so important in consumers and actually in many more places then, for example. Find this medicine at a local hospital in Canada. It can be found in a nasal spray. When an opioid overdose occurs, there are often minutes between life and death. This is where the medicine Narc comes in. This medicine can be obtained by a nasal spray and can really be given to anyone, people who are in an overdose situation. It can remember, as mentioned earlier, only minutes between life and death in these materials, so it is so important that this medicine is present in all consumers, preferably in public halls and even in homes of people who are known to abuse opioids. Let's put this into context, for example. peanut allergy, which can be fatal. As a community, we have decided that pens are normal to respond to in times of emergency. There is also a Narc for injection. The administration of this medicinal product should be done by qualified healthcare professionals, but the nasal spray can buy so much time before the site is handled by a trained healthcare professional, the availability of this nasal spray may be totally relevant. As mentioned earlier, I'm especially celebrating this bill. I don't feel that I have to add anything to the past. It was a pleasure to hear a word. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, who referred to the shame surrounding this addiction. That shame itself can make things worse, and when society's bordering groups that are sensitive in such a way by harboring shame, prejudice, and fear make it worse. Necessity has shown that it reduces the shame, reduces the fear, reduces the loneliness that people can experience when they are at a place where they are dealing with addiction. The same is obviously just health issues, such as Yeah. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came in, to his hygiene. When using tools, syringes and so on, you may be less prone to infection if you can access clean tools and tools, syringes, needles, etc. and the risk of transmission is clearly less likely. It was only established when foreign syringes have been found, schools and so on. Necessary space reduces the likelihood of such an accident. Finally, I will commend the highest. A health minister particularly for her work in this matter and for her open mind toward this lawsuit. It is more than precious to us as a nation. Only in the age group 18 years and younger have been included. Of course it's very complex, and legalistically it's extremely complex. This program needs a firm inspection. I have no doubt that the highest. A health minister can do it well, I trust her to do so. frú Ragnheiður also deserves special commendation, the good people who set up and worked for Frú Ragnheiður and who played a big part in the change in the word here in the country since they moved away from the judiciaries, such as prejudices leading to shame, this embassies, to the fact that these are health problems. This is a matter for society to come together. It is the heart condition of people. And it's wonderful to see this development in Iceland and make me proud of land and nation and to be an Icelander and to be a senator today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u58	Mr. President. It's been a long way. The war against drugs was launched decades ago, 40, 50 years ago, and finally we are taking steps that are worthwhile for victory in this war. As that war has so far been fought, everything has been done to keep the addictions away, and they are pushing down into the underworld and hurting the people we originally intended to protect, our weakest people. It hurts people the most. They become infected, contract AIDS, hepatitis, and a variety of other diseases associated with their consumption, far beyond what would exist in the case of consumption. These facts have been proved where such things have been done. We have finally lost sight of fighting the war against drugs to keep them out of the pitfalls of our weakest human beings who suffer. We're starting to look at this from human viewpoints. What we really want to do is reduce the suffering caused by excessive drug abuse. That's what we were always going to do and want to do, or at least those of us who weren't using it for some kind of political purpose, to create an enemy that could be fought, we can call it some kind of plutonium, and then take power. In some places, the war against drugs was used in this way. What we all want to do is reduce the pain caused by this abuse, and consumption is one step in that direction. In the Senate proposal made at the time, after making a very thorough investigation, this step is under way. Thank you very much. For the sake of health ministers, she would have, of course, done this even though the Piratars had not set foot in their time, but I thank her for calling her. We studied the content of this body of interpretation proposed by members of each body. We studied what had happened in Portugal, Switzerland. What happened in Portugal was that they took the step further; they took all drugs without crime. You see, there was so much opiate epidemic going on there at the time. The speakers said, or those who were afraid, let's say, the majority of them were all willing to do in these things, but the most frightened said, "The consumption is going to increase, the crackhead is going to come, and all of this is going to get worse. " It didn't happen. When I examined the data five years after this was done, it was compiled a status report on the subject, things were much better. It was a lower use of many drugs, slightly higher in some cases, but the damage caused by the use of drugs, including all kinds of disease and death, had decreased dramatically. Another step in which people were then taken was that they were better able to receive treatment if they were taken with doses of consumption. It stopped being a crime of consumption, but if people were taken drugs, they could be taken away and referred to in front of a group of experts who advised them and pointed into a way of getting out of their addiction and getting caught up in life. In the process of doing this, we spoke even. to members of The Global Commission on Drug Policy, a group of whom Kofi Annan, former U.S. secretary - general of the United Nations, is in charge. There was a woman who was former president of Switzerland, and she brought us to the truth about how they had been there. make doses of alcohol in safe areas, a safe place where it may be taken. And the results are everywhere the same: consumption damage to these substances is less and consumption does not occur. What a marvelous victory in the war against the suffering caused by excessive drug abuse! And I'm very grateful that we're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much for your discussion here and especially in a positive way in this matter of Congress. I am especially happy to have such a positive response to the bill. I would like to mention some points that have been discussed during the discussion. I think it's time to keep it up that it's a long way we've already gone to where we've come today. It is only right and fair to think that the report presented by the health - care minister at the 2015/2016 council was, of course, the initiative for Pirata, to bring this discussion here into the Hall. That's for sure. It may be that the discussion is totally intertwined and together with the discussion that has been discussed at the World Health Organization and other health - care providers, that if we are to cope with the health damage and health problems caused by addiction and drugs, we must take steps in the spirit of harm. We do not simply try to stop the substances from eating. It's been tried, but it's not the way, it's done. However, we continue to offer treatments. We continue not to lose sight of the importance of prevention. And we will continue to lose sight of the fact that one person's life is intertwined with the lives of so many others, the lives of the entire community, and the pressures and discussions of which society so confused. And we know that once an individual has suffered the calamity of being scaled for some reason, it's harder to get back on track. So to the extent that governments decide to postpone it to the longest laws, and most of them, rejecting people's peripherality, the possibility that everyone will share in the community increases. It's a personal goal. It is a goal that is not merely to cause damage but to the vision of society as a whole. Then I'd like to celebrate as health minister and as a politician at these times, who is in many ways a very significant time in Iceland history, i.e. When we are trying to reset our vision and catch a focus after the collapse of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u60	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1134, 710th case. These are the bill for taking a price for fish farming in the sea and fish farms, which are proposed to be used by the stress paid on fish slaughtered from January 1 of 2020. With a bill this measure, it is recommended to take charge of farms due to the use of farms in the seas and the establishment of fish farms to strengthen the construction of marine fish farms, as well as communities and the support of commercial life in the respective areas. The bill is based on the policy of the government set out in its covenant from November 30, 2017, which says by permission of the president: A growing industry, which includes opportunities for work development, has to be developed with extreme caution in line with the advice of scientists so that biodiversity will not be threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the necessary laboratory and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. As fish fuel grows in the spine, a future payment plan for the permit is needed. May it be said that this bill, along with the bill I gave earlier this month, of the change in various fish farming laws, is an answer to that challenge in the Treaty of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is called for discussion and proposals for future breeding in seawater as well as the basis of this profession for scientific counseling. At the same time, the bill is responding to proposals found in the report of a fishing policy group delivered to marine and agricultural ministers in August 2017. The group had seven agents from the pro- and innovations Department, the Environmental and Resource Ministry, Maize, the Land Association of Fishing Corporations and Fishing Association. Among the groups was the recording of the production permit for sea fire and offering proposals for the sum of it. In addition, adjustments were made to make it necessary for full remuneration and for fuel induction on infertile salmon and for the use of so - called sealed heifers. The currency was suggested to be based on production privileges, but not on quantity. A respectable president. In general comment on the bill, only a small number of world sites provide ecology conditions for extensive and profitable production in marine farms in Atlantic salmon. Besides Norway and the Faeroe Islands, it's mostly Chile, Scotland and Canada. In Iceland, such production has not improved significantly until the last few years. According to the preliminary development of Iceland's Habitat for the export of 2018, the export of farmed farmed farms was about 9 billion. Thus, this is not much economic size at this time, but comparable to that, the export of other seafood was by the year 2018 about 240 billion years. The conditions of fish farming are discussed in this bill to correct changes in the law on fish farming that I had previously conceived and is used for the treatment of a council while on this bill. It shows that fish farming is a rapidly developing industry. Seven operators are operating fire on salmon and rainbows in seashells on Western and Eastern Europe. In September 2018, there were published licenses for production of salmon for a total of 45,200 tons per year and 2,850 tons of rainbow. This is a industry that has grown substantially in recent years, but in 2009, the production of salmon in sealands in Iceland alone took over 700 tons. You can also refer to a discussion on page 18. 9 In a report with the bill, it shows that according to data from farm animals, production of farm crops is expected to be about 52,000 tons, which is a significant increase from now on. Icelandic nature is a gift to land and sea, often offering abundant opportunities. Fish farming as a industry has great opportunities for growth in this country. We've seen what the mass and growth effects of fish farming have had in Norway and Norwegian settlements. Norwegians are proud of their fishing exits, such as Iceland and Iceland, but it is now known that fishing depends on only about 30% of the seafront's valuable export from Norway, a fish of over 70%. Our hope is that in the years that soon, while soon, the time will soon come when fish farms will feed our Icelanders. Whether this is the case, it is not easy to predict, but it may not be. May I think of such things - and then comes to mind the brilliant and famous single Jón Ólafsson, the great Indíafari of India. He wrote: There is plenty of bread and bread here, You wear the magic wand. For this land has great riches. if you know how to use it. This can be considered in the context of this bill. We responsible for legislation and administration in this country must properly care for the workplace. This may include, in addition to ensuring sustainable production, that external environments, such as the specific currency of the operation, are not clearly identified. It is as important, in our use of natural quality land and sea, that sustainable use of resources will become the main objective. It is attributed to a paper with a general bill that increasing currency or tax recovery can reduce the competitiveness of exporting companies in markets. In addition, it can reduce one's desire to make investments and build up things that could affect other people's investments and that could prove financial benefits. It should also be possible for salmon companies to pay, in addition, when taxes are normally used as partners. Therefore, care must be taken to ensure that the currency is moderate, but different, e.g. The income tax pays according to the bill on a company regardless of whether or not their income will yield a profit. There is a planned currency in particular on companies in the country. In addition, if the fee was not available, it is possible that the amount of money needed would be used for investments or increased management in close environments. Because of this, another view suggests that rural communities will be committed to the income that the bill will bring. Of course, when preparing the bill, we have carefully considered the above views. Its main premise is that currency based on the possibility that marine farmers have limited rights to the use of common resources from the government's hand. It also aims to admit, in a similar way, and in the case of business in private property or public property, that the establishment of a job position is part of the commercial cost of an enterprise which is natural enough to provide a fair price, but no fee has been taken due to the management of management workers in fish farms. Finally, income that will fall under the bill will be able to resist the necessary research for fish farming, the cost of government support, and the growth of the environment in which fish farming is effective. In this way, the Ministry intends to place funding on the research of wild salmon in the ocean, including the North. His life course, threats to nature and characteristics. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to step on the bill's main subject. It suggests that the license holder of the current marine farm management holder, which carries salmon and rainbow silk, will pay for the use of farms that are targeted at production. Another fish supply is excluded from the price, since it is in an experimental stage or in a way that is not advisable to recommend a currency. During the bill's presentation of the Board of Management Board, there were a number of criticisms that would be in accordance with permission for production. As a result, the decision was made to make a relatively significant currency. Thus, in preparation for the bill, the Executive Experience of a comparable arrangement was especially considered. A bill report tells of legislation on remuneration in the Faeroe Islands. The bill we have here for consideration is that the subject matter is very much like the 5th law of the same topic. It is suggested that tax will be produced per kilogram of farm fish as a ratio of global prices to a value of 3.5% of the strain at a value of 4.8 euros per kilogram or higher, 2% of the population at a price of 4.33/44.8 euros and go down to 0.5% at a price lower than that. The difference is based on the field law that the fractionation rate is considerably higher, i.e. 5% instead of 3.5% at the top level and 2.5% instead of 2% on the bill. The bottom level, 0.5%, is the same. There are clear reasons why currency is suggested by the bill to be lower than in the gentle law. In addition, small farms have been extremely successful in business in recent years, but there is a significance that income taxes are lower in the Faeroe Islands than in this country. Then Icelandic fuel companies already pay a fee for the Environmental Fund of Marine Farms, as well as the land's port payment on a value bill that will not be the case in the Faeroe Islands. We know that there are far less things to be done than fish farms in the Faeroe Islands and conditions. It is unmistakably that Iceland's management will not be compared with high - quality fish farms, for example, at present. This is why seven years of adjustment are proposed to be fully taxed, as recommended in regulations I for temporary purposes at the bill. At the same time, it is clear that there will be no such design for fish farming as for specific steps laid by the fish farms, which may require a review of the wage payer under the bill. The bill suggests that if you charge a rainbow trout, half the cost of salmon will be the same. The same will be applied to fires closed with fire, as well as to fire on unfertilized salmon where there are other factors. In addition, no charge for production of infertile salmon or fire sealed with fire is suggested until January 1, 2026. It is suggested that the price be determined by the Fish Room in December each year to be met for future calendar years. Regarding the valuation of the bill for the state funds, see section 6.2 in general comment with the bill and refer further to what it says. A respectable president. Next, I'd like to go to Section 7. the bill on the establishment of a unique Fishing Fund. In 1st. The bill says, with the permission of the President: A financial fund is an independent public fund that has the responsibility of strengthening the structure of infrastructure in sea farms, thereby creating communities and support of industry living in those areas. The bill shows that the fund enjoys independence in its work, but it is submitted officially for applications from rural areas to strengthen the funds for projects. With this emphasis on the development of infrastructure and social services in certain geographical areas there is evidence that includes tithing in the review of the European Union's member member of the Council's Conference on the previous version of this bill. It pointed out that the bill lays on a budget that runs into government funds, and the rural communities remain with the environmental costs and risks associated with the construction of infrastructure in areas where marine farming is practiced, e.g. Social service and transportation, including harbor construction. I believe there is solidarity in society that the rural communities that live with the development of fish farms that have public support in this way are natural. The rural communities are well along, and I have no doubt that the market fund, suggested by the bill, will be a part of the income of fish farms if it is well spent. The report on the bill provides a summary of the imminent income of the fund over the next few years, but it is anticipated that it will first be provided in 2021, providing the government that will be over him and that there will be room for it to prepare for its operation. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After the discussion here, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u61	Madam President. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this bill has been passed. It is important that we discuss it together with the changes in fish farms. While the sums and other items at work at the bill are, of course, fundamentally important. However, I also think it is important that this should go to the countryside in a fair way, especially since they don't get any other income, such as drainage or property bills or such, as Norway. Despite the high price of a fish farming fund, however, it is worth considering that the pay does not directly flow to the rural community. So I'd like to ask the highest. Sea leader: Why wasn't the route chosen here mentioned in the work group report, and the Union's member points out in its review? My feelings are that it would be far more beneficial to pay directly to the rural society, preferably predictablely so that they can expect this through the introduction into their edification activities, although it could, of course, be a fluctuation in the year-to-year nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u62	A respectable president. I believe that the proposal presented here is quite consistent with the situation of the group. For when you approach your rural communities, each one so as to connect in some way to a fish farm, it is in common with them to own every land in the sea. But there is no question about how they would exchange their income, the cost of this operation. That's a very variable situation. If we were discussing the big film that turns to whether the State should charge a fee that then runs to the largest part of the rural community, we have entered a field that is part of a completely different subject field than that of the Minister here. That's when we're discussing state income and workforce division and rural society. Then the Ministry of Economics, on the basis of a total and consultation with the local community, needs to adopt such a case at the Jónsemism Committee. But up to one point, the biggest problem with this and the main reason why this way is gone on the bill is because we really don't know how we should split it between different rural partners today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u63	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As a matter of fact, I'm pretty sure the locals would be talking about finding a reasonable way to exchange these issues. The structure of jobs, such as fish farming, is truly having great influence in all sense. It has social influence, economic impact, and, most important, an environmental impact. Thus, at work ahead of us, both the pioneers seek to be self - sufficient in all the sense of that word and to be careful not to lean on any of these factors. There's another factor about the price I'd like to come on to, i.e. what is the basis for the price. I'm saying it's important that the fee isn't that it doesn't do any harm to the article. I wondered if any analysis of the cost of production of different manufacturing methods or longer-term market prices was secondary to the decision of the currency. Also, I wondered, " Is the cost of the Kingdom in connection with service to the article appreciated and taken into consideration this decision? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u64	So I'll first answer about the foundation laid for this remuneration, the original thoughts to which we drive the currency will be presented in the conclusions of the 2017 service group. There were specific sizes, but we will not follow the direction set there. After further work, we ended up looking to our neighbors in the Faeroes, who have taken steps in this regard, especially in the past six years. As shown in the bill, we are in effect rebuilding the model that is used in charge, supporting the market value of an Atlantic salmon according to a particular formula. It lays the basis for what we're paying for here. Yet, it is lower than in the Faeroe Islands for the reasons I reported in my background, including my case. There's a connection here with the harbor funds, which is not in Norway or the Faeroes. There are a number of factors in this process that are explained when a person is better able to pass through the bill's report and sees the criteria for the remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister of a presentation on the bill, and he is happy that we are here to shape a future payment programme for fish farming in the sea and where a adjustment period and motivation are being proposed. I find myself in a similar situation with the above - asked senator. Tells you the highest. Minister that the arrangement in this area is being proposed to meet the challenges faced by the rural communities, both on the exchange of income between partners and on the risks and structure of infrastructure that are inevitable? Or, at the same time, do we have to think about what had come into our country's deposit rights because it may need to be done in other places?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u66	A respectable president. I don't think ideas about the fish farm get to the highest standards, at least as much as I've heard from local communities about their share in this price. Farmers earn their income from fish farms in Iceland, especially waterfront funds, there's real estate fees on buildings, pay out, etc. In other words, I believe that the discussion will grow far more, how to divide the cost between the state and the rural society that would be collected from the activities that are under the issue. The rural population naturally wants to be part of the income raise. As I've said and said in a previous answer, it's the wisest thing to discuss this in a larger context of state and community income and practices. If the price should, e.g. To go to something other than rural society having the nature of the situation according to income institutions, this calls for a discussion at the Jónsmosa Committee and the Committee for Action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u67	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is that we are taking just a step here, and we need to consider other ways, not just a suggestion to reach a conclusion. Only on the part of the price to be paid to the State for research, monitoring costs, and administration. The government may already have to invest in research, but the fund does not produce significant revenues until the adaptation period is over and the natural basis for the success of the article, where income is gained. Do we not have to assume that financial and financial programs are for this project, research related to fish farming?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u68	A respectable president. Of course we do. I remind you that in the first bill on changing fish farming laws, there is an estimated 100 million to 200 million dollars in the environment fund of marine farms. It is primarily intended for research on the fish fire. It's a significant increase, if I remember correctly in a percentage, it's about 67%, so the centenarian I mentioned isn't exactly right, but there's an interval in it. It is also assumed that the majority of the budget being implemented here will be covered by a bill somewhere around 130 million in the first year, devoted to building up surveillance and monitoring. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to mention the kind of project I think needs to be put on and on and on. It is to promote research on wild salmon in the ocean, where we know almost nothing or nothing. This is very important to me, especially in view of the high rate of food shortages in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u69	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize fish farming fees and we'll be glad to get this in the treatment of the bill that should be set up on the report. At the same time, I'm pointing out that there is something special that we are starting to add to a new and young industry that we haven't even shaped rules. At that time, we have already decided to add an extra fee, which is not so widespread in the community. I'd like to ask, because I don't have a lot of time, about the proportion of fish breeders, how can we make sure that this rate, which corresponds to a third of the incomes of money, goes into this fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u70	A respectable president. It is at the head of each year's budget to make sure that one third of the fees that will be collected to this fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u71	A respectable president. I need to speak less and ask more questions. We're talking about our share of 263 million guarantees us in 2023. Did anyone ask if it's enough? And why was that decision made? I also ask about other legislation on currency, which rural society has been unsure of how to use, e.g. Clears that have to be paid at the docks. I'm asking if anyone has begun work because of this sector in terms of other laws involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u72	A respectable president. It's the mission of the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs to handle issues that turn down, so I don't know it. I know it's been a stumbling block in the rural communities where salmon fire is started, between them and the companies in it. I just don't know exactly. I know only from conversation with local authorities that this is going to work out but that this is gonna work out, which is not desirable when men are building up, a long way from. I remind you that when you're talking about the remuneration, as you think, it's based on the emphasis that came out of this cooperative committee. The amount of money, money, is different from what was said about the production and lay down in stages. The bill assumes that a full currency will not take place until seven years later. They're being tried to meet wishes like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u73	Madam President. I want to begin my case by thanking the Minister for his history and clear answers. We will discuss early employment but may become an important part of Icelandic economic and employment. When we discuss remuneration, you will have reason to believe that this is the practical use of what we can call a limited resource, and that thought is certainly involved in a paper with the bill. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister if it had not been desirable, and maybe if something we could do next, look at the income that falls into the bank of the Faeroe Islands and Norway on the other hand. On the job board, we have just arrived from Norway and learned that there was a big opinion in the case of the Ministry of Economics in that country on the payment of the article. I would like to agree with the Minister that for an article in the original series, it may not be appropriate at the beginning, but we must also look to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u74	A respectable president. I suppose, as I believe, in fact, that the bill of this bill is emphasized, that this remuneration must be considered in line with the way the sector may build up in the coming years. I know because Norwegians watch even. To the Faeroe on the currency of the fish fire. Although a recent statement from the Prime Minister Norway said that they are not going to contribute a particular price to the job, there is still a payment on the permit, a substantial amount of money. So I put the bill into the consultation puzzle on a leave-of-the-duty fee, but the receipts were said to be fair, to say the least. Most of the reviews that led to a linking of this to production, and it could be said that this was the way the consultations played their part. It produced great opposition, and then the bill takes into account its viewpoints and from countless sources of information. [[The president calls.]] So we changed the work, as we have seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u75	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. We look at these matters for a short and long time, and perhaps I was asking about the latter, especially. But soon, I'd like to ask a minister about the increase in government costs resulting from this operation, to form at a Food Institute, which is entrusted with a very important and possibly extensive monitoring role of government discipline. I'd like to say that the director of the Agency at a meeting of the employment committee could be understood that in a town, people would support even significant costs for this. Is expected, the highest. Minister, that the sector depends on this cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u76	A respectable president. The short answer is yes. The thought of this is that the currency will be subject to the necessary monitoring and monitoring, as I was able to do in my history. In time, the payer will make considerably higher money than is needed for monitoring, monitoring, research, and other factors, provided, I say that this business is built up in a reasonable, responsible, and effective way, as hopes are so well built up. This was seen by an interview with a president of Fish News who is published today, where he has a very high and strong expectations that in Iceland, fish farming will produce similar food and fish farming in Norway, especially in Finnmarka. It is a joy to hear the faith reflected in those words. In the long run, I say, of course, we'll look at the Faeroe and Norway in terms of payment and how it's done, etc. [[The president calls.]] That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u77	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for excellent history in this matter, and rejoice in his contribution. The discussion that has come to the point, the payment of fish farming, is very important, and it is important that the Parliament take time, as well as the employment committees, from time to time, to consider the most convenient ways in which the materials work. I must start by being especially happy to the top. A minister has chosen a reliable and sound currency as the target of the deposit, where the payer is expected to be carried out in the euro.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u78	You wanted that in crowns?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u79	I must build hopes that this, although small, is the first step by the government in taking up a real currency in society. But there are factors to consider. I find the approach to the currency in many ways interesting. It is, in some way, connected with the price development of markets to a poor example, as a minister introduced it. It is relatively simple and clear. It should be noted in this context that it is very normal and, in fact, important to me that it is a receipt of the fish fire. This is ultimately the use of a limited common resource, although it is only a different resource in this way in order to, of course, that this may have more to do with agriculture. These are fish farms or farms. Nevertheless, it is a useful tool for the limited and common resource of citizens who, of course, are the areas of the sea that are suitable for fire. It should also be noted that the license of fish farms is temporary, to a maximum of 10 years. The opinion is considered, and must be considered in the management of the Committee, whether it is appropriate to develop this system of reimbursement into some kind of marketing system, that it is permitted to be offered to the management permit itself; it is not merely the first time, the first, the first, the first, as the present arrangement really is, but that the parties and licenses can go together in some way and go to the highest standards. It may be considered a temporary search and is in line with the findings of the resource committee at its time, that there is a temporary access to this provision and the availability of a currency, which may include: There may be a final solution, as might be suitable in a fishing field. I only pause at the length of the induction process, that the pay will be stepd in in seven years. I'm not going to go to any court. This is one of the factors that must be carefully considered in the handling of a committee whether this is necessary over this long period of time or not. It is true that we are not far off compared with our Offeys at this point, however, the experiences of the Hostagens also show us that when the fish farm is on the move, it seems to be quite a shock. In fact, the exemplary farming of fish in that country is not unusual, and it is not unusual that this approach would take some point toward the way the fire in this country comes forward, i.e. which turns toward its survival. I also find an interesting approach to the fish farm fund, which is actually in harmony with our ideas in the development of resource costs in general, that they are somehow used to build up locally. This suggests that such systems, with little doubt, have reason to examine carefully how they are implemented, how to ensure that the less affected areas of rural society are supported by the fire, etc. There are a number of concerns. But I welcome the steps involved and believe that it is very positive and very important that neighboring legislation, which will inevitably be influenced by the rapid structure of the work like this, will be involved in some way in its recovery. I'm not going to have this speech very long. I look forward to the ongoing discussion of this subject. It is fundamental to my mind when it comes to loading resource use as this one. I'm glad we take this discussion seriously relatively early in the process. I think it is very important that we avoid the mistakes we have made in these materials in the past, that we immediately fall into some foxholes with a discussion of how these things should be, or should not be at all, etc. Of course, the fee must not be taken in euros. It's a very stable and a good currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u80	Madam President. I'd like to rejoice that this bill is done, both because I think it is very important to discuss it, or that it comes as soon as possible to a currency like the intended to do it, but no less because I think it's important to consider the whole matter of fish farming, i.e. Other laws on fish farming and, on the other hand, the currency. There is no question that there has been a major disagreement on the structure of these sectors. She's a controversial. In particular, in view of this, I feel that we here and we will use machines on this matter are under obligation to go to the earth gently, listen to all the views, see that it does not all at once work. No one will get all of his basic requirements. Rather, it is a matter of making the most of the agreement about the industry. There's a field of work. At times, the discussion of fish farming makes people act as if it were not a fish farm. There's a license available for 45,200 tons, if I recall correctly, and considerable production in progress. What has been lacking, despite the improvement of the Council on legislation a few years ago, is clearer and more efficient legislation and what I have, although lacking, is catalysed to environmental production. Then you can find it here. That makes me very happy. It has been in the past since the establishment of this government that it views fish farming as a growing industry. It is included in the Treaty that has the opportunity to build up a job. But it has to be, with President's permission: ◯ Building up with extreme caution according to scientific advice so that biodiversity will not be threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the necessary laboratory and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. As fish fuel grows in the spine, a future payment plan for the permit is needed. And here we are, discussing this arrangement. It has long been my opinion that all too seldom are read from the left movement's direction of a green supply in this pant, and I just want to make things right. I, of course, work for the government contract approved but also look to the course of my own party or movement. What is the left movement's policy of green production in fish farming and has been for some time? Yes, by permission of the President: In fish farms, there are great opportunities for growth and future life in many countries. It involves further development of environmentally stable fish farms, marine animals, and metropolitan farms. Developmental work, research, and the development of strict laws and regulations must be provided for the article. The fire of marine animals must follow policy and regular action on such projects. The right of rural society to organise marine and coastal areas and the economic and social effects of fire should be evaluated in a similar way and impact on nature. Governments should encourage further development and innovation in fuel solutions aimed at the maximal use of side products, protection of wild strains and delicate natural bodies, as well as the maximal of animal travel and quality products. The criteria of sustainable development, the scientific risk assessment, and the enterprise's requirements for any counterweight measures needed to allow fire to be reconciled to environment and communities. Here we, President, are to take some of the steps that are called behind in the direction of the left green. As mentioned earlier, evolution and innovation are being encouraged by the use of economic incentives in that direction. You're also looking at the locals, as you're reminded of. Actually, it's my personal opinion that when I mix, on one side, about the currency and on the other, the fish fire is the third corner of that triangle of marine and coastal areas. True, these topics involve fish farming, and it is difficult to deny them. But that too is coming, and we will hopefully discuss the matter as soon as possible. This bill, it's the highest. A minister was introduced in the consultation riddle, was presented with a specific application, and comments were taken into account. This is an introduction to another export. I've thought about the price of fish farming to look at it as much as a resource charge, because it's a price of common resource use to me. In terms of how the algorithms are, I liked the proposal that there was a particular concern that there was a fee calculated for each published license, but I find that it is a very reasonable reason to assume that the cost of production is calculated. Much has been said about our neighboring countries. Likely, no trip to the history of an outland country has been torn up as often as ever in this Assembly Hall. The trade committee to Norway during the days, and it was very useful to us who went there where we met both rivals in fish farming, as well as to people who work in fish farms and, most important, scientists. But you can look forward to it, and many have mentioned in the discussion how much difference has been made between wages in Iceland and Norway. That can be true. However, it should be possible for Norway to review how the stock should live there in fish farms. Changes are thought to be, at least, changes are being made in the same direction as suggested in the bill, some kind of resource charge that can even be calculated by production. Hence, it is a wise way to calculate the amount of money per kilogram of sacrificed salmon. The green catalysts that I have mentioned are primarily in terms of a lower price for infertile salmon and salmon that are produced in the sea by a closed fire system. I like that. I wondered, though, if it should even go further and that the first attack would simply be no price, to be more motivated in that direction. There are various opinions about it, such as. I'm gonna need a fish farm and something else. But the thought is on and on, and right, so I'll witness the message. This is what I'm most celebrating. Then comes the newcomer into the same thing that turns to rural areas and structures there. There may be talk that we will take, we all, but not just those of us who are in trouble. A professional health committee. How do we view fish farming? Is it the country's common resource? Is the combined resource of the nation to run to the whole nation, or is it useful in areas and facilities within the individual rural communities? There is a discussion that awaits us. What rural society will benefit from the informed funds? Is it only a local society where fish farming is practiced, or is it entitled to do so by all societies? We'll take, for example. resource expenditure of energy resource use, no matter what rural group they own domestically. As I say, I think it's very good for me to see that this case is being done. I like the thinking that's over and around, that it's particularly considering that there's a lower cost to environmental production. I like the thought that it is clearly expressed, that the price is intended to cover the cost of this use. I'm gonna let myself quote the report, Mr. President: The purpose of this bill is to provide government funds directly for the use of marine sources in Icelandic jurisdictions that can also meet the government's costs for administration. In addition, there will be the basis for the operating of a special fund, a fish farm, which is expected to enjoy financial contributions that answer one third of what is expected to be paid for in the state's budget will be legally the bill. These are good goals, and it will be a job for us on a professional committee to continue doing this bill. I'm glad we're done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u81	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, there's another subject on the program at the time. 3. But I just wanted to come up here to discuss this bill to legalize the price of fish farming in the sea and fish farms. As soon as I'm glad, we'll have to be careful with the legal handling of this sector. As has been noted in the case of both a minister and others who have mentioned, manufacturing is needed, as this article can depend on the remuneration. The bill of fish farming is still on the job committee and has not become legal, so I consider it a form of palpation to address it with a mature and good discussion. I was going to respond to the highest. Seafaring minister but was too late, which was a significant concern of the payoff sides and the object possibly to become a member of the rural community. As we know, this discussion was great at the time and has sometimes been observed, in part of a rural society, to the marine resource supply industry. This allows for it to take place under public financial laws. I would have wanted to know if we could be expecting to land on one of these culpable thresholds, with what's going on in the countryside. These activities need to be successful, and they also need to be able to feed on what is unpredictable and what is happening. I'd say it was the part of this article, with, for example, the article. accidental excrements and other things that come up, and there's a fund that you could go to, a common fund of rural society, and maybe a fish farm that would be good for you to go to. It refers to a fish farm and needs to be developed in a way that would be possible. It has been mentioned in Norway and the Faeroe Islands, and it has been said in the case of people that further deposit in Norway is still under discussion. They're working on getting to someone else's landing there. It has a 50 - year - old salmon farm, so they gently step to the ground in these materials. But so far, there has been some sort of currency. We need to work at it, take care to get to the ground, and this is not the article on decay, not too close to business. I'm not going to keep it any further now, but I'm glad this case has been established. It tells me that we're going to work hard on this, so we can make it a success for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u82	Madam President. I'm glad that this bill is presented so that we can discuss it on a job committee while the bill is being passed on the fish farm. It's very good to get a bill that's going to pay at the same time. In many ways, this bill is used in a manner similar to that of the fishing fees. The result of fish farming is expected to be uninterrupted. I think it's good. And also allowing the article to develop and improve. This is a young article in Iceland, and we have to look in order not to overcompensit. It's, I think, very good that we're staging the currency over seven years and looking for manufacturing there; and also that it's free of charge for the first years, up to 2026, for the receipt of unfertilized salmon and salmon that are brought up in closed fire equipment. Of course, all of us look forward to developing it in the future in order to gain profit and income from having a closed heifer and unfertilized salmon in a fire to limit the risk of genetic mixtures. Here, too, we have a new industry like a fish farm, which is part of the income to flow, 1/3, to build up wood in the rural areas where sea farming is practiced, and you can apply for that fund. I think that's a very good addition. There's a call, I think, from the locals after having access to such a fund. It is also increasing the environmental resources of sea farms. It is also important to sustain what could possibly go wrong with environmental and research and the like. So I think this bill is a good thing to take the step that this article pays for the seawater resources to be able to use the sea in a kind of agriculture, not on land, but in the produce of water. We will discuss this carefully and look at what is done in Norway and the Faeroes and take what is best for our situation. Norway is paid for business licenses, not for manufacturing like we do. Indeed, there has been considerable income for the rural community. But they've been developing this for 50 years, and we need to look for that rural society can also benefit as much as possible because the fish fire grows stronger and stronger, hopefully, we'll make a lot of money into national preparation and to those who come to work on this future industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u83	Madam President. On October 25, we had a good conversation at the Council on Climateism. 147 days ago. During these 147 days, approximately 29400 species of animals and plants are extinct. During these 147 days the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased from 406 parts per million to 415 parts of a million. And in these 147 days, there have been about 3.5% total of the time we have up to the Kyoto Convention in 2030. Of course, it's not enough for Iceland to solve this problem, but we have to do it our own way, and I believe that there are opportunities for Iceland to solve its problems and to help other countries meet the same natural obligation. There is no need to remind that planet's viability is in danger, that man's consumption in nature is driving it to the limit of endurance. It may be that no one is sharing these truths longer than our questions point to how long we have and whether and how we can handle them. I know it's the highest. The Environment Minister is a zealous fighter for saving the earth, but we need to ask ourselves regularly whether the procedures of the government of this class are adequate and exemplary. So I would like to use this special discussion to get a status update from the highest level. Environment Minister on what has happened since October. Are we getting any results? Will we reach our goals, or is all of this just some kind of play while the world burns? The government's climate program carried out some operations last year: black oil emissions, electricalisations, transport exchanges, construction regulations, climate-friendly cars and fuels, efforts in the recovery of wetlands, etc. There are countless measures to start this year. As I have criticized before, the problem is that these measures are not aimed at the extent of reduction in emissions. I believe, though, that most of these goals will at least help something. Then the key is that they're on their way. But what has run out, and when is it expected that we will be able to see the results of these actions? Further, we must not look at other commitments, e.g. in the Paris Treaty, for example, for the development of technical support, the development of technology for the solutions of the climate problem? President. I also request that we talk about and find answers to a few other questions. Is environmental secretary, e.g. Are you ready to make a decision on the legal protection of the 50% surface of Iceland for the protection and development of biodiversity and for international cooperation that half the earth's surface will be taken care of for nature? Is Environment Minister ready to request a billion dollars. Add to the next budget for the removal of wetlands on the state of the world, unused land and abandoned shores, and restore them to wetlands by the end of the next year? As environmental minister ready to mount on earth in the months to come with more drastic measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, e.g. ... byinjuringtheking of the government's climate program? All of this is important because the measures that have been made may not be enough to solve the problem. If we are not able to solve the problem at home and establish a much wider and more international cooperation to solve the problem globally, preferably in front of Icelanders, we may not be able to solve the problem we are facing in time. During the past few weeks, the children of the country have assembled every Friday to protest the inactivity of both Iceland's governments and the governments of the entire world in climate. Children are right, we need more and more drastic measures than the governments of the world have proclaimed, and it is particularly important that people in the community see that certain measures work. The power of mankind's unity is great in our choice, and it must not be underestimated, but the importance of the world's kingdoms being united in leading this fight must not be underestimated. We are, as previously said, at a certain moment of destiny, but I have a lot of faith that if we work together, we can resolve this. I look forward to hearing from others during this discussion and especially from the highest. Environment Minister on what has happened and how we are going to proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u84	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, for taking up climate issues here at the General. In my former job, I had long called after a climate operation program was set up, which was funded. One of my main focus projects at first as a minister was having such a plan developed, and then it was introduced. A fall. A number of references have now been made to this strategy in good indications that will be used in the preparation of a second edition of the plan to be published in the following year. Governments are now working hard and hard on climate. A group of appointed representatives of the four Councils led by Sigurður Ingi Friðleifsson of the Environ has worked on the other major aspects of the government's work programme, i.e. Transport energy exchange. The group has achieved analysis of infrastructure status due to energy exchange and the first projects based on the group's work will be started in April. The agricultural and forestry were assigned to cooperate with the Environment and Resource Ministry on the other side of the programme, carbon binding. Today, that work will also be presented, including the recovery of wetlands. Public transport and changes in travel are important in climate. In February, transport and local government ministers presented the basis for the first global policy of the State on public transportation for the whole country. A group of workers have submitted proposals for the construction of transportation in the capital area, including bicycle footpaths and city lines, and the state agreed to provide 800 million. K. in the preparation of the city line. For other measures in the programme, there is also much to be done. I can tell you that carbon costs have been raised since the government began. Work is for black oil. There is progress on the regulation on the ban on organic waste and the regulations for the loading of electrical vehicles in the recently-inhabited state of the home. As a result, we have made sure that all new housing on the land will be expected to be loaded. A contract for extensive environmental education in schools with emphasis on climate change has been signed and the work is initiated during the transition to national planning, with emphasis on organizational climate. I'd also like to mention working on a climate fund, and his involvement has been adopted because of Ranni. As defined in the Action Programme, the Council shall set up a climate policy and be completed. Action will be taken to reduce emissions and the Management Board for carbon balance. In addition, a number of other climate - related tasks are being carried out without being under the risk of climate-based action programmes. Official trade policy for food is an example in the final meters, the work of the climate council in full progress, and tomorrow I will present in the government a bill of a change in climate law that includes. is suggested to oblige every state and company in the majority state to set up climate policy and reduce emissions. During the past few months, the government's cooperative and professional activities on climate and green solutions have been established and expected soon to be a formal institution. First, the goal of the work programme is to improve the effectiveness of Iceland in climate change and share our varied contributions to them, e.g. on renewable energy. Second, government and employment work together to achieve ambitious, climate - related activities in line with government goals, including the lack of carbon in the year 2040. In addition, I have met with the representatives of their companies in this country responsible for the largest greenhouse gas emissions in the region. Have I sought information on what action they want to take and urged them to make our way through the lack of carbon. They've taken a good look at it. 6.8 billion. will particularly take many action on the environment in the coming years. This is a complete change from the past, a turning point in the environment of Iceland. At the same time, I'd like to mention that the total government budget for action related to climate is, of course, higher. That's how it goes, for example. annually about 1.8 billion k. to the public transport of land, capital area and region, and many other measures are financed in ways other than this 6.8 billion. The discussion has suggested that the IPCC estimates that 2.5% of the gross domestic product should flow to climate. I want to state that this refers to the gross national product of all the world and to the transformation of energy systems. This percentage includes investments that the IPCC considers necessary, not just from public sources, but exactly as much from companies. A respectable president. How wonderful it has been to observe the mass movement that has gone on and is now spreading throughout the globe, where young people demand more action on climate change! The other day, I met the managers of the climate strike in a country where we discussed these matters. It was a very good meeting. Climate is a major issue of our time and political solidarity, and in the community everything is fundamental to success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. a voter for opening this discussion. I often find that we put the focus on things that may not be very effective in these subjects at the same time that the discussion is in the chapters of reality that we face. At home, for example, there are potential tasks that deal with transport energy, and many more may be picked up. Now, according to Energy Location's projection, if I recall correctly, we need an additional energy of three packed neck activations, gathered, without any major activity being added here at home. This is the same time as the entire environment of energy efficiency in this country, where we own the angry farm of ruined, renewable green energy resources, so there is little to be used. I think we should put some energy in the context of these things, which we think our energy needs are gonna be a few more weightier from now on, compared to what these issues all are giving us and the plan as a whole. The demand for energy is as good as it is, even if there is nothing to bring about the growth of industry anywhere in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u86	Mr. President. Iceland and I boast that we have sustainable energy and yet we release twice as much greenhouse gases as other European countries, even though we use more energy, geothermal energy than most of them do. We were unable to fulfill the Kyoto Protocol commitments during the 2013-2020 season, and the Paris Treaty is being badly watched. It is possible to replace unclean energy with machines, ensure that land use is sustainable and reduce the amount of waste produced in the consumer community. Not only do powerful forces want to sustain their stable condition but governments have passed for many years to provide the basis for changing lifestyles in transport and other aspects of our daily lives. Various insistences are to identify a link between our giant soot track and our massive private use here and to combat the structure of public transportation as they are commonly practiced in all civilized countries. Other factors include, perfectly thoughtless government noises in large businesses and car companies that do not offer savings cars, low prices of contaminated fuel, our use of airways as a world - wide - end service of all kinds of goods held cheap by the disgraces and unsaid land use, the negligent consumption patterns, and primitive transport. What can we do, Mr. Honorable President? So much. The human mind has virtually no limit when it is determined to direct it toward the solution to problems. That is also the case when climate change is achieved, although, as they say, there is still plenty of speakers and ostriches who want to look into things in context. We need, as the Conspiracy agreed on last weekend in a political resolution, a new green treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u87	A respectable president. Thank you, too. the perfunctory of the discussion before and at the highest. Minister of the environment for his excellent input. I think the main objective and the key to achieving results in this is to develop the idea that we are headed here for total non-carbonity. Whether we put our eye on the recovery of wetlands or other factors, the restoration of fuel sources in transport or such items is not everything, since it works together in the best agreement, and we can work with all these factors. There's a lot going on in the stuff I think we should put our eyes on. I'll go about it, so I'll let myself, a respectable president, talk about my boyfriends, farms, and seabeds, that we're not too busy to remember the marvelous results of the marine road in energy savings and, as a result, less emissions. Less has been done to tell what, for example. Icelandic milk production has been through the production management system that we have had in recent years a large amount of energy consumption or oil consumption in milk production, approximately 40% per milk colour in the last 15 to520 years. That's a lot of results. I also insist that farmers who dance have set the goal of achieving a non-carbon share of carbon in 2050. There are many factors that work with them that have an excellent concordance and a fine match here at home as well. I remind you we have a lot of land on which we can restore vegetation. We have a lot of opportunities for land healing and forestry. There are men there, for example. Studying and reporting on studies and the use of admixture in ruminants, which are involved in the testing and development of such in-uses in the south of New Zealand, which almost eliminates metals from the digestion of ruminants or cows. We have in the horizon the potential and technology to simply eliminate the negative factors that all of us can work to achieve the non-carbonity we are going to pursue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u88	President. I thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for their inputs and what. A senator for putting the matter on schedule. I'd like to bring my two cents here, especially the first two questions raised by the proverb. First of all, what results have been made so far? Second, what can be expected in 2019 C.E.? I want to narrow this down and say, from my viewpoint, one of the things I think can be expected and that it is important that the job life enter this discussion and bring in a full-scale operation. I mention, as an example, an environmental body of business councils that I understand is newly involved in, that is, the largest topic group in the council. And when it comes to the approach of industry and industry, it is only possible to mention the quality of water that has been successful in recent years and decades in terms of emissions and energy saves. Of course, there are good things going on with the agriculture as well. When it comes to how to activate a private party, I'd like to say two things: On the one hand, the climate Council established by the government in my recent years is well - organized, organized, but narrowly organized. In my opinion, there are probably more professionals in the world. There's certainly a representative of the Labour Association, but I would like to see more professionals there, possibly at the expense of the Academy, or by far the number of experts there is not to be increased. Finally, I would like to introduce myself to what can be done in cooperation with professional life and the government or just in the area of employment. Let's take our Icelandic vegetables. It is wrapped in plastics to make it easy for you to see that they are buying Icelandic vegetables instead of those foreign ones. We know that it has been reported that the carbon track of domestic vegetables is much less than that of the introduced plant. We also know that the carbon track of plastic plough is three times as much of a piece of cardboard. [[The president calls.]] I believe that when our top executives and our jobs get together, they find a way to make sure that we consumers who like to buy more expensive vegetables, the Icelandic, because we think it's better, can know them in the shelves without having to pack every piece in a box. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There must be a better way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u89	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion today, since it is appropriate to discuss climate on a global day of forest. A worldwide preservation, recovery, and development of forests is one of the main subjects involved in the binding and storage of carbon in vegetation and soil. Also, it is good to report that today the Environment and Transport Committee provided a framework for forestry and forestry to cover the 2nd. and earlier in the winter, new land - healing laws were adopted, both long - term timely steps that contribute to improvements in climate. Projects are expected to work national programmes for agriculture and forestry as minister, and are now proposed to introduce them to a environmental and transport committee before they become valid. In the preparation of these programmes, I believe that priorities will be so that projects in which the main aims of climate change, forestry, vegetation and soil protection, and sustainable use will be put together first. This will result in the best and in most areas. Much progress has been made and has been made in the integration and planning of the state, such as transport and climate. I believe that we have long underestimated education as a way of action in climate, since knowledge of individuals is the most important factor in how homes, companies and organizations react to climate challenges. So I welcome a great increase in education in schools, a recent series of VRs, and the awareness that comes with the climate strikes. Newness, economic vision, and innovation have often been viewed as a contrast in the discussion, but the fact is that innovation and innovation are the basis for success in climate change. Therefore, during the development of modern innovation policies, it is important to look to this stage as well as to work at the work of the future government committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for this discussion, and it's also the highest. Environment Minister. For the weekend, I watched Sil peace talk with Professor Guðni Elísson. What appeared there was quite striking and, by permission of the president, I will quote from Guðni's words: ▪ We're betting that future generations will draw the carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and pump it into the ground, for example. It is meaningless to stay within 1.5 degrees of the target (earth temperature increase), and almost impossible to reach 2 degrees. The situation is much worse than we can say. ▪ If we are going to stay within them, we need to reunciprocate the economy and the whole infidelity, and we need to do it very quickly. Then he also says: ▪ Despite prosperity, increase in economic growth, increase in money, and money. All of a sudden, there is an increase in buying power, for all the products we can buy are carbon - based. Somehow we need to change our thinking, and it's complicated. Guðni takes himself and his colleagues as an example, saying that most of them changed their way of life. Have we personally transformed our way of life to some extent? I don't think so. Guðni then puts it this way: If the world's temperature continues to rise at a degree of 33/4, there will be great changes and will be almost the end of the world we know today. Huge areas will go under water, deserts will be formed, and vast migrations of people. This is not a world we want to go into, we have to fight this and put everything into it. But are we late? The question is, are we really late? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u91	President. The government has put in place an action plan on climate issues until 2030. This schedule is not only insufficient to deal with the problems that are faced but also a fundamental flaw. Rather than attacking the root of the problem, it attacks the symptoms. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister has written about the inefficiency and insecurities of consumption as the core of the problem and that individuals and businesses around the world have to clean up in their own research. That's all right. However, it can be expected that individual and corporate behavior will simply be in opposition to the motivations and ideologies that are behind and speeding forward the present economic system, i.e. Stimulated growth of the economy at the expense of everything else? In fact, in large companies that put their weight ahead of planet Earth's vitality, low - weight economic growth requires constant consumption and profit. For the weekend, Elísson's Guðni was very clear in his description of the calamities we face if we do not take immediate action. He even said, by permission of the President: We really need to re-established the economy, the whole infrastructure, and it's very complicated. And we need to do it very quickly. During the last few weeks, youths in the East have faced protests that require a young generation to act as rulers. There I have seen such signs as: 'Let's try the system, not the climate.' We are under obligation to listen to the voices of these young ones because we are stealing their futures and future generations. The rights of future generations are the greatest human rights issue of our time. The aim of the 21st century's economic policy must be to meet the needs of all within the limits of the user-friendly resources based on planet Earth's biologicality. We need to eliminate poverty and ensure long-term eco-efficiency. [[The president calls.]] President. We need new emphasis, new vision, new ideologies. It's a complicated project, yes, but we literally need to save the world. It's not that complicated. We have to take decisive action. We have to change our system. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u92	Mr. President. Last October, we had a special discussion on climate matters. on the report of the United Nations International Commission on Climate Change. That report is blacker than anyone dared to imagine. What has happened since we last stood here discussing the climate? More reports showing black status have been found in Eurostat's most recent source of carbon dioxide emissions from all EU and EFTA countries, with significant increases in emissions from increasing air traffic and shipping transport since 2012, with the trend that emissions from Iceland's economic system per individual's share of the trend in the developing North countries. What is responsible for the major emissions here? Yes, flights and productions of metals, a.k.a. large industry. In recent years, air traffic has grown tremendously, with diatom development in metal production. We constantly try to eliminate these factors when it comes to counting the emissions of carbon dioxide from Iceland and the international emissions standards. How, though, would you like to include this important factor? Emissions can be reduced and emissions have generally been reduced within the EU and most countries have fallen to about 9 tons per person. In 2016, however, Iceland had a highest value of 16.9 tons per person. It's unannounced. What's happened since we've been discussing the climate here is that my hope in this climate Blackness has arose and that hope has appeared on every Friday in many parts of the world as well as in this Eastern field. The young generation says: the drug, and only now, is accompanied by the 16 - year - old Greta Thunberg, from Sweden, leading this global protest wave. Young people's efforts are clear, taking even more drastic measures to cope with climate change. Young people are defending 2.5% of world production each year to maintain global warming within 1.5 degrees in 2035. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment wants to do well and is doing very good things, as he traced his speech. The plan is a great step and some other projects too, but we have to take bigger steps and walk much faster. [[The president calls.]] Better yet, future generations who walk through the streets of the world and call for extra money to take on real action in the fight against climate change, require that we respond seriously. Now in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, 12,000 scientists and scholars have responded to the demands of climate strikes, and so should we. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u93	Mr. President. I thank the advisor and the highest. A minister for their contributions here and the schoolchildren of the United States for keeping us on the subject. Most scientists believe that the global warming of man is an indistinguishable fact, that the change began 100 years ago, and that nothing will ever be done. We are just beginning to see the beginning of the world's beginning, the horrors that have struck the earth, or the individual areas of the earth in the past decades, or the years have usually come suddenly. Now we don't have that excuse. Government action around the world seems to have a weak end to all real changes in order to deal with our own problem of quality of life and satisfaction, and during that time, not only action but also wide - scale changes of attitudes around the world. A elevator needs a piece of equipment. I welcome the action the Icelandic government intends to take in these matters. However, the U.S. mono-caric vehicle trucking over a period of 10 to 15 years is merely chicken fat compared to total emissions in this country. Mr. President. The acidification of the sea is almost a problem we should be concerned about. The warmness of the sea results in a shift of fish stocks, although new ones are expected to replace them. Although it is not a climate issue, radiation pollution in the sea after the Cold War does not seem to be a problem of little concern, although it is known that at the beginning of the nuclear age, such wastes have been cast out at sea. These last three things turn directly to the lifeblood of our Icelanders, who are the way of the sea, and we are under obligation to endeavor to use our influence to counter measures as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. We need action, and here we are, Icelanders, to put us in the front row.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u94	President. As we have seen so clearly in our discussion today, this is a matter that involves all of us and that we must shoulder responsibility. And unfortunately, even though we are so lucky to have green electricity, we Icelanders are not exemplary in climate matters but on average we release almost twice as much as the European Union's greenhouse gases inhabitants in the atmosphere each year. The fact is, we need to take much more serious steps in the way we react to climate change. We need to reduce our consumption, and that is where the Kingdom needs to move ahead with a good example. We need to do more, and we need to do it sooner. Why not e.g. banning the registration of fuel and diesel cars until 2030, e.g. 2025, like the Norwegians are headed for? Let us remember, then, the fact that we've done in VOLV that our cars release about A million tons per year of greenhouse gases similar to the mass releases? Why other emissions have not been put on carbon charge, such as. - The watch? President. We know the facts. We know the situation. Climate scientists, both Icelandic and foreign, agree on this, and it is surprising that today people still speak against severe action. So I'd like to ask you a question during the discussion: What numbers are these people willing to contribute that will show another way to meet Iceland's direct commitments in the Paris convention, so we'll just talk about hard money? Or when it comes to the earth? What are we willing to do to save the earth? Mr. President. The tax system, transport and housing, food production and resource use must be modified with sustainable guidance. The state should be fully involved in investing in renewable energy, and it should be motivated in that context. In our fight against global warming, we need to act in an intelligent way and to be examples. We have everything that can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u95	A respectable president. Tick took. The climate is not just a big deal but the biggest challenge we face. We have an ambitious climate agenda, but it does not change the fact that the report by the Scientific Committee and other scientific reports shows that we need to be even more ambitious, and we need to go even further. It is important that countries come together, such as in the Paris Treaty, but it is even less important that industry, rural society, members of society, and individuals work together on this important matter. The reality that has happened lately is fantastic. I would like to give special commendation to the parts of RUS, what we have done, and so the wonderful efforts of young people on Friday at the East Field. We need to respond quickly. We need to reduce pollution and emissions and cooperate with them. We should not forget, though, that we too need to prepare for the change that has become inevitable and will be in the years to come. Then I refer to it when it comes to the structure and structure of all kinds. How do these works of creation and our organization assume that we are living in a changed world? We will see further changes in the coming years, unfortunately. How much do we know about the sea around us and the Arctic, how will this affect our major fishing industry? I don't think we know enough about these factors. That's why I want to end up saying that we need to study it in junk. But we need to start immediately with measures aimed at reducing pollution and emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u96	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to listen to the discussion and the harmony expressed by the senators as to how important it is for us to deal with the problems we face in climate and to manifest real ambition. Like all other nations, we have enormous interests. But what I always think about in this is that despite all the beautiful words, despite the fact that we have stopped arguing about in itself about global warming, at least in the main stream of discussion, the environment is always shifting in the discussion. They're never first. When we discuss carbon charges to promote energy exchange, they are attacked in this hall because this is some kind of national tax. Yet, prices for fuel costs are often higher than our increases in carbon charges. We are rarely serious about the importance of climate and environment when it comes to taking the action necessary to take. There will be nothing to avoid; if we are going to show real ambition in the environment, we need to change our pattern of consumption. We need to tax pollution, even when it affects us personally as consumers. We need to change our tax system. Maybe we should change our valuable tax system to a large part of carbon tax on all consumption. The discussion can also be considered, as is true of traveling overseers. We have put emphasis on the tremendous structure of tourism, and you wonder about the long - term benefits of the sector when you look at its carbon record. What must be done on a international scale when emissions are being taken in air? What will that mean for the tourism service here at home? What will that mean for our own traveling habits, as well as for those coming here? The key to this is, and I hope that this discussion will be here for us in this room to motivate us, that we must make the environmental discussion leading, put it first, and stop keeping it sliding as it has always been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u97	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this need for this discussion and the highest. the minister of the environment for his extensive speech and the discussions that the members of the council have discussed today. In recent years, there has been a great awakening among private populations, including individuals regarding the climate crisis with increasing greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. Since I live in the Club of Hornfjord, we simply watch the effects on the natural world through the development of reptiles a year from now on. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has published an ambitious climate-based operation program. The program suggests 34 measures that should contribute to the reduction of emissions and increased carbon binding. The actions include administrative measures, but it is also clear that companies, communities, and individuals can apply themselves to the project and share in reducing emissions. I would like to direct attention to procedure 26 and 27, which is educational, both in schools and in the public. As shown in the case of a minister, young people have become very powerful in this respect, which is great and we need to make use of. Team 28 deals with sentencing taxes and the prohibition on the possession of organic waste. The tax is thought of as an incentive to reduce the number of biodegradable wastes until it is completely eliminated. However, in terms of waste and its treatment, there are a wide range of ways in which it is between rural areas and that is one of the requirements for harmonization, as the discrepancies cause insecurity and reduces the category of persons between rural unions. It is necessary to reduce consumption and waste, not just waste food, but public waste. Then I'd like to point out what an event Iceland's Women's Association and the Maritime Guidebook stands for next Saturday under the heading Environmental Day - a memory of clothing disposal. It will guide the repairs and repairs of clothing, as well as the market for clothing change. This is an exemplary event for a group of members. The root is active in such projects as these, bags, bags, and other things. [[The president calls.]] We all have to jump, take responsibility, and do what we can to calm down the climate goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u98	A respectable president. All of us may be amazed that I admire Protestants, so I especially admire the 16 - year - old Greta Thunberg, who sat outside the Sweden Assembly Hall to protest climate change. Last week, she encouraged people with 1,300 protests in 98 countries, but the result was 1,700 protests in 100 lands. Our children are teaching us that we are environmentalized. Sadly, the fact is that if we are not going to choke ourselves into pollution, we will likely drown ourselves in our own waste. The case is gone, and the question is, Since we overfished it, did it disappear, or did it disappear because of pollution and global warming? Either way, it's our fault. We are destroying thousands of animal species, and unfortunately, in this Hall of Congress, we do not seem to be able to control the way we are going to do this. There is no question that Iceland's biggest pollution comes from fishing vessels, the tourism industry, cruise ships, and there seems to be a lot to do. We are proud to put down one tree, but we are probably at the same time polluting and destroying not just hundreds but thousands, the value of thousands of trees. We're always biting our tails, and that's why it's clear, as the young people say, that they will continue to perform strikes and protest Fridays until the government takes care of it and do something about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's us. We're supposed to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u99	Mr. President. This discussion is always deepening, and that is good. We are united at the General on climate issues. That's good. I will continue to encourage this sort of discussion and ask for positions from the highest level. Environment Minister until we begin to see the many millions of tons cut off each year in Iceland, both inside and outside the ETS system. It is true that the discussion has brought about a marked increase in electricity consumption when we have traveled, for example. ... tothemomomomomomomomomomove. But this same energy is in use today, not in the form of electricity, but in the chemical reactions resulting from burning fossil fuels. Power has been trapped in the earth for tens of millions of years. The earth can't stand our release. It is intriguing to think that it is easier to think about the amount of energy needed when it needs to be activated than when we are using it simply in a gas station. A very good point was made on the environment, agriculture, fishing, employment, and transportation as well as on the basis of the economy. I hope the government takes all of this to him, working with the ideas that came out. President. Piranus have recently made proposals for an English - language green treaty, with the permission of a president, ◯Green New Deal◯. We hear the Conspiracy has done the same thing, and no doubt more groups. Everyone's thinking on these lines at this time, luckily. Some have also stumbled on the same name, the green covenant. I like that name, but this may have been the opportunity that we hadn't realized to create a deeper political treaty than anyone had suspected. I hope we can have more conversation about it. In the long run, we are not only competing to achieve international politically tolerated goals, but to nullify our carbon dioxide release, to restore carbon dioxide levels to the atmosphere below 300 ppm and to ensure biodiversity. [[The president calls.]] The world needs to unite in taking from half of the earth's surface before nature. I can't wait to deal with this with you and to thank you for having a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u100	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator on this discussion about the climate, has been very well informed. It is deep and is always getting deeper, whether at the General or elsewhere. I just want to mention here that the measures taken after this government began, and the intervention is being done, not all will produce results one, two, three. Their nature is not such, but some do. The ones that even doing so is like shoveling into the ditch or reducing food waste. There are other measures that are much longer, such as energy exchanges that exceed longer periods and shorter paces at once, education, etc. This is something we have to keep in mind, even as we look at the fact that our latest files are from 2016 on emissions and I know they're going to continue to grow, at least in some sectors. The thing is, we've got to get that top, like for road transport, hopefully at the latest this year, but we won't know yet. It's important to keep this in mind. System changes are necessary, as they have been made, and I deeply agree with them. We are working on this in the same areas as in energy exchange. We are working on this in terms of nature's recovery - why. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy came in especially on it - with the carbon-binding campaign. This involves retrieving wetlands, land, etc. There are several main factors we need to keep in mind, the energy exchange, the carbon binding, the restoration of nature, the consumption of large climates, and we also don't forget the commercial world that is a whole network of European markets for the most highly contaminated enterprises called the ETS system that includes. Our industry is inside. It is also important that these companies do even better than these requirements. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I thank you again very much for the discussion, and I'll come with you. paritaprevir The K. Gylfadóttir daughter to the Women's Association on Saturday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u101	Mr. President. It is my great pleasure to recommend this beach fishing bill. Here's a bill for a song about a change in fish control law, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, from the job committee. The following changes will occur in 6. a law: a. The words "pearls " and" markets " at the time and region of the second language. 2 mg. ... willpassout. b. Third speech. 2 mg. phrases: Then, the Fish Service with an advertisement in the Management News will stop coastal fishing when it is shown that the permitted total resources, except for, will be met by the Council's Regulation on coastal fishing for each year. c. On the 3rd case. 4 mg. add-on: srb. It's still 9 mg. d. After 6 mg. comes three new paragraphs, as follows: Each ship is permitted to hunt for 12 days within the month of May, June, July, and August. The fish lab should be advertised annually according to the application for coastal fishing. Each coastal fishing vessel is permitted to be carried out in the quantity decided by a minister every year by no means by the maximum volume. Count 5. 5 mg. The unassigned resources of each beach fishing vessel's hunt are as follows: a. Keeping the catch separated from another ship's labors, which was particularly weighed and recorded. b. That the power is sold at an approved seafood auction and its value is boiling, sir. 3 mg 1st par. track No. 37/1992 for a specific amount due to non-sanctionary marine forces, with subsequent changes, cr. Two, though. 9 mgr. Is a warrant for the program. 8 mg. and the managers of the auction market, where the sale is given due on the value of the sold catch, shall be returned to the stated portents and expenses of the auction. The ship shall then receive 80% of the price of selling goods, which will be divided into buildings and crews in accordance with the agreements. And 2. It reads: This law has already been valid. This bill contains the following report: This bill provides some adjustment to the law No. 116/2006, on the control of fishing, with subsequent changes, i.e. The law of beach fishing. Coastal fishing has been practiced since June 2009. The system has established its design and proved to be a novelty in the control system of fishing. Since 2010, an average of 674 boats have been fishing each year. According to local policy, the catch has been what is called the ◯Olympian to show that sailors have striven to obtain what is permitted as a short period of time before the allowed total resources in the affected area have been reached. It has been suggested that this could be the case with an increased risk of accident. This bill has been designed to make use of the experience created by a temporary change in law No. 116/2006, the director of fishing, was conducted in the spring Summit of 2018. The temporary change included that each boat could hunt for 12 days each month as long as the labors of total resources were not met under the regulations set by the Minister for coastal fishing by 2018. However, this bill aims to take into account the experiences and legal requirements of similar materials permanently with the aim of improving the environment of coastal fishing and increasing the safety of marines in coastal fishing. The bill is suggested to change the terms of Article 6. a Track No. 116/2006, which deals with coastal fishing in such a way that it will have a pattern similar to that of provisional regulations laid down in the past summer. The key elements of the bill are that each beach fishing vessel is expected to be allowed to fish for 12 days within each month for four months each year, May, June, July, and August. Coastal fishing will be subject to a special license in the same way that it has been. There will be no change in localisation. The secretary will continue to extend the development of territories by Regulation and to these areas the ship's registration is directed. The change will be made that markets will no longer be divided into zones or seasons, but in view of the fact that fishing from all geographical areas will be permitted until the total quantity required for coastal fishing has been set aside according to the Council's Regulation for coastal fishing each year. It is not expected that a minister will be able to stop hunting when the estimated catch volume is reached, as determined by the provisional regulations established by law No. 19/2018 and don't think that a fishroom can stop fishing in individual areas when the estimated catch volume is reached, as was the previous rules. According to the bill, the Marine Agency is expected to stop coastal fishing when it is shown that the overall forces of Coastal Fishing, except for espionage, exceed the quantity required for coastal fishing per year by the Minister's regulations. There will continue to be a similar rule that the same fishing vessel will only be granted permission for coastal fishing from one area during each season of fishing. It is also determined that the rules for binding will remain unchanged, as was the case with the implementation of the law No. 19/2018, i.e. to be granted in the area where the household of the assigned fishing vessel is registered, according to the national file or company file of the local taxpayer. Furthermore, an application procedure for fishing is expected to be in a way that will be published annually according to applications in a manner that has been observed. Then there are rules similar to those given in the above provisional regulations, which were legalized by law No. 19/2018, that each beach fishing vessel is allowed to vacate in the quantity decided by the minister by the Regulation each year without the total resources or the maximum resources of each hunt. The utilities that are not calculated to authorized fish during each beach fishing voyage should apply the following conditions: 1) That the catch is kept separate from one of the ships' fish and is weighed separately and recorded. 2) That the product is sold at an approved seafood auction and its value is boiling, cr. 3 mg 1st par. track No. 37/1992 for a specific amount due to non-statutory sea levels, with subsequent changes. If this new authority is given, the managers of the auction market, where the sale is given at the price of the sold stocks, shall be given the price of the final portents and the cost of the auction. The ship shall then receive 80% of the price of selling goods, which will be divided into buildings and crews in accordance with the agreements. Thus, the bill assumes that the value of the sold product will be divided between building and boiling. legislation on a specific price for non-statutory sea forces in a ratio of 80/20. There is no maximum quantity of sels allowed to hunt during the coastal season without allowing this to be a catch but, rather, by a minister's regulations for each year. It is expected that a minister will decide with a draft policy set before every fishing year. The committee insists that the matter will be settled prior to a new fishing season. which begins May 1st. The bill will be discussed in more detail in the Committee after 1st. magazines and allows time for a closer look at its features. I just want to understand what has been in coastal fishing for the past few years. I want to say that the summer 2018 was the tenth summer of a beach fishing season. Then, in 2017, the change was made that 10,200 tons of unscrupulous shellfish could be fished for the whole country, and each boat had 12 trips a month. Last year, 700 tons of unfunded enamel were caught, which gave 80% of the sales and the VS funds 20%. The adjusted arrangement for providing 12 monthly fishing trips for four days per week was generally very successful in sailors, and there were a total of nine boats reaching 48 rowers, which these 12 days times four months made possible. But last year the beach fishing fleet did not reach its full potential. The yield was some 9,380 tons, or 820 tons under authority. Sources to catch sels at the so-called VS fund were not completely new either. They were caught in 390 tons, and last year, 558 permits for coastal fishing, 46 licenses lower than in 2017. Of these, 548 boats were to be caught. Most were coastal fishing boats in one season in 2012. That climaxed in a number of 761 boats. As a result, the number of boats on coastal fishing has decreased by 16.7% in the last two industry. Most permits were published in area A. Last year there were 205. In area B, 109 permission was issued, in area C, and in region D, 123 permission was issued. In total, coastal fishing boats in the summers went to about 15,000 swingers, an average of 655 pounds [655 kg] a day. Since the beginning of coastal fishing, there has been no greater daylight. Last year, the yields of coastal fishing boats averaged 17.8, a total of 1.3 tons over 2017. The number of boats that had a power of more than 20 tons was 229, more than 24 boats in the previous year. I believe that we are developing the coastal fishing system in the right direction by this bill, attaching it to non-real time in law, and there is a great improvement for this branch in the sea exits, small boats wide and wide around the country, and a lot of security for sailors to be able to choose days within each month when charms are good, weather good, as well as to distribute the raw materials best in fish markets and in development. All of this has proved to have positive merits, so I believe that this arrangement truly has shown that it has come to be, although I am not saying that it must not be reformed and developed. It's like a lot of other stuff that we're dealing with here at the Council of Living Records. For example, there are ideas about moving in a space that is more convenient for one area than another, starting in one area, and ending it earlier, and vice versa. There's a lot of stuff in this that I think we just keep on talking and thinking about. But I also find great pleasure in the wide range of political solidarities on this subject and the understanding of making changes in the system, which have truly proved and proved; there was a demand for it when it was established in 2009. And we certainly believe that this is our child, though all of us have a group of this child and continue to watch it grow and thrive into adulthood and have contributed to the development of this system. It is not only good for the seabed to have variety in the article but also for the cultural differences in the use of smaller boats on television and around the country. I think we should do everything in order to encourage young people to try to compete with seabuilding by starting to row on coastal fishing at a lower cost than to start buying resuscitating expensive prices as reality is today if they're going to buy boats and markets to support business and employment. I refer this matter to a work committee discussion, and that will include guests. Hopefully, this good agreement will continue to be able to handle the matter in advance before the sea fishing period begins May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u102	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney for the story of a professional network bill changing the fish - control law, which means changes in coastal fishing. A year ago, it broke out. A senator well evaluated the results of his last year's experiment. So I would like to ask, " Where do I find this report, the assessment of how it was done? ' That's the first question. I make it specific that we are permanently establishing this arrangement. However, I also see advantages in doing so. 12 days to hunt for a month is possible. It's important that there's a bigger perspective than we've had, at least for the past year, and I agree that it's urgent that the case should be settled as soon as possible, i.e. how coastal fishing will be done this year. Not much later. However, there are external situations that can affect coastal fishing. For example, a reduction in total resources can affect each peak in the fishing market. Changes in labour markets may affect the pursuit of fishing, weather, fishing, fishing, fishing, and other factors. That's why I only want to go back to what I said about a year ago, that there's some additional resources that came into the system last year and probably even this year, all of them going into area A. It's been shown that they did. That led to the conclusion. That's why I want to ask: If the external circumstances then change the system, don't we need to consider some fences, cross zones? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u103	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator told us that after the bill agreed on it, we were brought up on a professional committee. May we make a good assessment of how things had worked out after the summer and that it might lie ahead of time so that we could evaluate the rest in that light. Sadly, this study did not result in any loss. But I don't think there's anything too late to do to her. Like what? A senator says that there are in every professional way, in particular, high uncertainty factors, not only by human beings, but also by weather conditions and the way the fish stocks behave, and so many things that can never be coveted and that everything will be as much as we generals want it to be. Thus, only the realities of this industry, seawaterry, are known for many centuries. Last year, there was concern over having one pot, that in certain areas, there might be a better and greater attendance of the latter part of the period, with the prospect of totality over. But last year we saw that the amount of shore fishing was not reached. And now we're adding even more. The secretary will issue a Regulation of 11,000 tons. It was published a Regulation of 10,200 tons that was not reached last year, and it was quite long, as shown in my case. So I think we can be very sure everyone gets their 12 days. [[The president calls.]] What a joy it has been in the article of this arrangement!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to this question will be encouraged by a professional committee that allows for a report, even until the coming coastal fishing season, the summer. And that there will be a system where the knots in the bill will be arranged so that you will take the position regularly, even annually. I can say with what. A senator like an external situation is now I'm not worried that the warrants will run out before everyone has used their 12 days. But it does not take much change in the outside environment to do so. Therefore, I would like to encourage the committee to consider some means to ensure the minimum share of all areas, e.g. 10% of literature per year or of one region available e.g. not exceed 50% of all sources, or any area will not exceed 15%. They're just numbers, they're totally loose. These possibilities will be reviewed. I can't tell if there are great or small possibilities to make those kind of rules that really work out. Of course, the individual's interests are great, but the largest interests in the coastal fishing system are the interests of communities, smaller settlements, many fragile areas. I think it's the interests that need a little weigh on the system process. Then I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament how the change has been made, not a minister, but the right to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u105	Mr. President. So I start with the last question: I believe the change to the source is at Fish Room and not to a minister is not going to change the whole thing. We know that a minister will always have a warrant, if unlikely, to be raised on a roof on 11,000 tons, to issue a law in case of loss of authority in 5.3%, socially. Lately, line-by-line sources have not been used. In August 2017, the secretary published a Regulation on 500 more tons, and I believe that a minister of this source at the same time is guided by looking to corrupt sources in the social objects that, using proben, cannot use, drop dead unless they can be used for coastal fishing. Of course, those who have been involved in coastal fishing have looked forward to more and more of their share when it is evident that they are dropping dead sources, such as inferred fishing years. I think there's also a lot of room to get more sources from sels, which are then outside the maximum volume each day. That's important. They go up to 1,000 tons of 700. I don't think there's any need at this stage to put on some fences or earmark ratios. I think this is the huge amount under which it should be more than tears so that all areas will have 12 days. But then, of course, we know that there are many traditionalities and a wide variety of applications to rowing in coastal fishing boats anywhere in the country. [[The president calls.]] Certainly the A- chamber has a greater tradition and longer tradition for it, just as the eastern part of the country is a long and a great tradition for being in the open sea, which, of course, says itself, because its paths are short on the trails to attend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. The head of a professional trade committee, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for bringing us these reports and bill to legalize the changing law on the control of fishing that is at sea fishing. It's getting more permanent. Of course, we in my category celebrate this final change and all the steps that have come out of the present system. It's a little bit of a property, but I know it's the most valuable sea country that has an age-old tradition, a professional tradition, in this area, i.e. Sea exits, but have gone very low in current systems. This report states that sources will no longer be divided into land or space but, rather, on the basis of having to hunt from all geographical areas until the total quantity required for coastal fishing under the regulations set by the Minister for coastal fishing each year. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Whether this has been discussed on the committee and how it feels that it will have on the beach fishing is the subject of the Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u107	Mr. President. We have discussed these matters, and also to the article itself, as in the past year, regarding continuing to move into the regional area, that it is a great reason to have these regional boundaries so that boats must initially choose where they will be and cannot wander between areas of life, that it is the most fundamental thing to do so. Most beach fishermen now want to be next to their homes. And that has been the case, I think. They were worried that last year the sailors would move to the area where there was only one pot. They believed that fishermen could make better money there or that there was a better weather, which was far from true. Hence, last year the bill had to be put into place where they were enrolled a few days before the beach fishing season began. It was determined that this would not have to be the same as it has been since 2009, that people would be in that area where they had a legal home, and would have to decide it at the beginning of the season. I believe in this article that these things are balanced with people and that there is no imbalance between areas. It is time for the train, as it were, to arrive primarily at places where they are familiar and have been and to continue with confidence that they have 12 days anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for clear and clear answers, which she freely and firmly provides. I think it's about sailors like others that they don't want to run away, and they'll look to where the art is best. That is why this may be a bit of a concern, even though it was okay last year. I have two questions. It's about hunting days. Now it's clear to go and pick up for four days. Did we discuss this on a job committee or determine if there is any reason to move these days? At some point, it was discussed to authorize the Sundays, with regard to the market and market in the coming week. In view of this, did they talk about it? And then I wanted to have the attitude of the head of a professional committee: The number of boats in the beach fishing operation was down by the previous year. The reasons why they do not know. But did the committee or the chairman's assessment that the new legislation will encourage more boats into this category of fishing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u109	Mr. President. I hope that this will make it possible for us to see it, to be firm, and to think that this could be quite a success of the fishing process, even though it is only four months in hunting season. Many of these boats may have small resources, trying to calm them down in the other part of the year. I believe this will strengthen believers to go fishing for the sea. I know there are many boat owners who chose it, for example. Last year, going into business with some company and renting from the prefects and putting in return. But I think it's a little off. That's what people have to deal with. The law has come to be, however, that the Lawgiver can, of course, revise various aspects of this law on the subject as well as on all others. For ideas such as taking the Sundays into them, it's certainly been discussed. There were records of that matter when we discussed it last year. I think it's perfectly normal that we keep talking about it and look at it. They had some opinions about whether calling out men to accept these boats on Sundays and whether they were suitable for the process. There were various viewpoints. For all the matters that were not completely bothered by last year, we felt that it was not right to throw up some balls in the air right now. It would be more important for the coastal fishing and to achieve these issues in lasting laws to carry the bill mostly unchanged and add to the pots and then examine the rest of the experience, but don't start rocking the boat and take the risk of losing your solidarity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u110	V.E.G. President. Here is a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, with subsequent changes, coastal fishing. I'm going to thank you. The head of the professional trade committee Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, for her daughter's story in this case and review. We're all here on the pro board. What I wanted to say in this regard is that I wanted to, as we talked about last year, when this bill passed through to one year as a test project, talked about it in speeches all over again, that we'd take it up a reexamination in the winter and pinch it off some bait, add and so on through the streets. Have I missed the change that came in earlier and asked about it and had little answers? This is now, and it's only about 40 days before the beach fishing season begins. If we're not gonna lose this so we can get into the old system that used to be, we're gonna have to speed it up, and I agree with that. But saying so, I find that we haven't got the bill before to work on it to fix it. I've mentioned it to the chairman and others that after the summer resort, the coastal fishing block, we should get this work and observation. Then we can see two years back in time and maybe do more and look at what might come up in the summer that didn't come up in the last summer, revise it for the next fall. I hope it can be done. There are many subjects that have been discussed in this regard, and of course, there are always things that people want to do. I'm in a good relationship with the barnacles wide and wide. We know what has been going on in this business, and those who have discussed that there are different kinds of fish on every side of the country. It is often best on the northwest corner of the early summer, in the spring. At the southwest corner around Smokenes and the Fax Gulf, the hunt begins even in March and is good in April. Men have called for a study of fishing in April. Then if we go around to the east, to the north, to the east, to the southeast, we often have a good catch in late summer. It has included extending the period even in September. There's a bit of a different situation around the country. I feel it is worth checking to see if it is not available in time. We can't get that discussion right now. Time's too tight. These are the key elements of the review. The pot we so call it last year was 10,200 tons, didn't run out. There were over 9,000 tons and 700 tons left. Now it's 11,000 tons and about A thousand tons off in line integration and even something else in 5.3% of the bix, as you say in bad language. I'm not afraid it's not gonna do it. I think this will do for the summer. As noted in the chairman of the Committee, the number of boats in recent years has fallen, probably for various reasons, low price of fish, and all kinds of reasons. Most of them were in 2012 and have gone downhill ever since. I've had the feeling and the feeling that this system is here to stay. It's been proved that I didn't really like it when it came along. It's an excellent system, just because it's actually inside the eater system, the pot is taken out of a common resource. Because I mention that there has been a decrease, I also think that there are prophets left the article, more than just ◯orginalars. There may be young men who want to go into the fishing business and have blood on their teeth, as one might say. Then there are teachers, lawyers, artists, and others who are there for the summer as well as older men, old sailors who are sailing into the sunset. It's all right for a lot of people. It's just the best part. As we noted earlier, this is a good school for replacements. We need to think that even young men can find themselves in sea culture and feel independence and motivation and so forth, that has been the case over the decades and even years, and that is where they need to start. I'm also going to mention the one. It was an excellent addition for the cast to become such an extra species. I agree with this opinion, as it is today and have been in the past few years that Úsa is a highly maligned species in our fishing resource. He's not much of a country. There's always a lot of woofs that pops up above each high school tournament. You might consider taking advantage of it in some way, and it is not relevant to any other person. Then the fish must be made to have something in it, some price, and the catch price, and so on, so that people can see the advantage in getting their way. This is the kind of work I would've wanted to do for the winter. But we have a short period of time now, and I recommend that the bill go through. I'm not going to extend my case much more. This matter is almost as it was, with minor changes. Now it goes to the committee again and again. It was called in the source of information, but it will not be much slow to work out except for thought and perhaps for the future, for time will be short. Good things happen slowly, shouldn't we just say that? I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u111	Madam President. I thank you for the discussion that has been here on this bill. I'm only curious about one thing; when you go through a report, an average of 674 boats were fishing each year since 2010. Then, when you keep going through the report, these beach fishing boats have suddenly become coastal fishing boats. This must be a mistake. I'm also curious about the size limits on the beach fishing boats. I think they're all boats, but not ships, anyway, at the place I come from, there's some line between them. I have a hunch. paritaprevir The Sigurður apostle Páll Jónsson now knows more about it than most people do. It would be good to have an answer in the previous reply. I'm not gonna keep this any further, anyway. I'm curious to know what's right about these boats and ships. This must be some kind of crap with the beach fishing ships.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When is a boat and when is it not? Now we're going to the ship, saying somewhere. I suppose this is a print error. I don't think it's the last cause in the report. As far as size limits are concerned, it's only open who's allowed to go on the beach fishing, I think. On the other hand, if a person gets to do this fishing thing, he may have to put it down just to see if it pays to go and hunt 700 kilos a day for 12 days a month if God promises good weather. That's what I think when boats get over a certain size just because of the cost of making a living. I myself have a 12 ton boat that I tried to go fishing on. After that time, I said I couldn't afford it. So I think it's just open with the size limit, that it's unlimited.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u113	Madam President. Maybe there's a way for a barnacle, i.e. If you can't get ahead of yourself on a beach fishing trip to the council, but I don't think that's the reason. I'd like to discuss the catch, and it's been mentioned earlier in the discussions about the regional and local concerns of other senators who live in areas other than the northwest. It's interesting to see that the boat that hunts the most in the area of A is nearly 50 tons, and it's 48 days away. The one in B is hunting 36 tons for 46 days. The person in the area C has 48 tons and is 48 days and the person in the region of D hunts 40 tons and lasts 41 days. I think I've taken it right after a man can only hunt 700 kilos a day. In some places it is clearly covered. The total strength of 2017 and 2018 is similar to that of some 9,800 tons. I'll tell you what I'm worried about. A member of the Parliament on this matter and thus direct the committee to the question, as others do. Councilmen have established this regionalisation, whether it is necessary to have a roof in the area. While weather, fishing, and so forth may have considerable influence, the figures suggest that those who calm down in these areas at least have similar peaks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u114	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his answer. In terms of the size limits, I didn't mention that there are four rolls on each boat, so it limits the volume of fishing. I'm concerned about the separation of areas, and I guess there's only one pot, and I've heard it and I can totally understand it. It was a lot to talk about last spring that area A would remove the lung from the pot before the other areas got into a decent fishery. Experience shows that it all worked out. The senator there listed those who seemed to get up to 1 ton in calm, but there are fewer cods. I'm sure they had some kind of owl in a mixture or at least some swingers, I don't know. It's only a small amount of oil that makes you land more pounds instead. I think that's the answer. I can't remember if there were any more questions. - No. Then it's just arranged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u115	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech was Sigurður by Páll Jónsson. I would like to ask him: " Does the senator believe that the fish stocks of the country would be stopped if every boat got its 48 days without months or days? So it would be similar to now so that people could actually choose their own days. It would be a day's harvest but not a national catch and no regional division. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Is this some kind of solution that Páll Jónsson was talking about in the fishing season?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u116	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I believe it is safe to believe that it is not the fish stock to risk making it this way, if I understand the senator, she means that it would not be a pot or anything. But the fish stock wouldn't be finished. We have a catch, 20% of measured spawns are fish stock and we haven't even caught it in the past few years. So it would not be dangerous for fish plants to do so. I think this would have to be discussed at a council, and maybe it would. A senator introduces that bill in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u117	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson, a clear answer to my question, and who knows that unless I accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u118	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change in fish control laws, the fishing industry as a whole. It was last year that we agreed at the council to share a beach fishing bill with a change to continue with this proposal. A major change was that the fishing days were tied to 12 days of each boat each month during the four - month coastal fishing season and were valid until maximum power is reached. There was also a directive allowing coastal fishing boats to evasive as VS forces, and this force would not be counted as a reference within the maximum range. The suggestion in this bill is that we will proceed with this system, try another year, but by the change that we add 800 tons to the maximum volume as well as we add to the maximum set of resources in the equations. This is what we do, confident that last year was quite successful. Indeed, it is always a risk. The biggest and strongest criticism that occurred last year was that the coast fishermen in the B, C, and D area feared that this was a death penalty over the system where boats would rush into the A area because it would give more of themselves and the sources of the season would be recovered in the first two months, they would burn inside at the time that fish gave up, in those months before the east and south of the country. What, though, about external circumstances? There were various reasons why the entire pool could not be reached. It caught some 9,700 tons, and a total of 10,200 tons were allowed. In fact, it went very well. Perhaps there were circumstances that left the pot unattainable; it was worse than the other; last summer was not the brightest in memory. But then there was a reduction in the number of boats as a whole. The largest reduction in boats was in the area A. There was an overcrowding of days between areas. This may have been the main thing that stood up to you. I agree with what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Lingum as she speaks of the importance of the release of this experiment. In fact, we made it up to the job committee last year that it would be done, but this report has not been published, so it is very important that this work starts right after this period, if this is approved, and the system is taken out. There is a report on the development of coastal fishing during 2009 -2017 and the progress of fishing before 2017. This report is very interesting and delightful to read, as well as much in it. There are a number of factors - both how this has worked and what the origin of it was. That's where even the two of them come from. to increase the share of women, there are more women now in coastal fishing than there are in the past. That's why it's very important to say so, I think. But because we're going to keep these same areas, although it's one pot all over and we're changing the system a little here, these two years, 2018, and then again this summer, it's really important that we take it. Perhaps there will be other external situations now that need to be taken into consideration. But certainly, it's always a risk, whether the system will make itself in the coming summer. Outside of the world, there is little we can do about it, we can't attach it to laws; pleasure, weather, and fishing. It'd be nice to be able to steer this thing, but it's just not available. The last year, however, the price of fishing went up by the beach fishing boats, perhaps because they had a choice for the 12 days in the month and could control a little about when they went out. It was mainly the weather that guided it, but they could also take a little into account the days they knew they would receive a better price when they arrived and could gain better out of each ton than they once could when the race was only achieving that time, no matter what the situation was. It may have gone down to four days, I know, in the area of A, where there were many boats, and the race was about to start, perhaps catching both poor catch and less. Then there are differences in the manner in which the fish is changing. I've talked to a few people in the West, and they said that the fish was giving up very close to land. On the other hand, in the Gulf, they talk about how far they have to go to catch fish, even having a little pessimism for the coming summer when the hairy person does not show up. If it doesn't come in on the Hunsun, then the fish won't be there as it has been. As the risk continues, we cannot attach it to respond to it, unless we may take out a couple of courses. But I hope this works, I have full faith in it. I was a little nervous last year when we got this out of the way, how would it work. But soon it became clear that it was only very good. Even those who have criticized these things have said that it would be for working to try this second year. It's good to look back, how has it worked over the past year? In total, there were fewer boats on the beach. There were some explanations. Fish prices were minimal at the beginning, a better level of employment in general, and a great incentive to disappear and go to other things that would do better. All of them had less than 50 boats in the system. Of course, as I said before, it is not known when there is any change to be expected, whether there is an increase in boats, and if so, in which area it would be. Other factors, such as fish prices and other items, are sure to be uncertain, but there have also been uncertainty factors during these ten years of coastal fishing. In the last ten years, the pot has increased. In 2009, 3,400 tons of land and as much as 9,700 tons were last year, but the roof was not taken up. The year 2018 was the same as it was in the previous year, although its source was elevated. Thus, the coastal fishing system has been growing, and then we need to consider how to improve or equalize land - and - boat facilities. That is why it is so important to see how this year works. Like what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir said that the beach fishing is certainly a child of the left green, but I think all classes can sign that we have a little custody now and hopefully we'll manage this time and we're ready to take it up in case of an emergency, if it doesn't make sense, and we'll take it off in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u119	Madam President. First, I'd like to say that this beach fishing bill, if we call it that, a positive step in the interest of viable coastal fishing and positive regional policy, for that matter. But I would like to bring up a conversational product that we can mention about the environmental impact of coastal fishing, or ◯ Coastal fishing, in the light of climate change. If we look at one and another factor there, let's start, for example. In our own fishing opportunities, we can say that our own fishing instruments do not require much energy, e.g. The hands or anything like that, related to fishing tools. Unlike some other fishing instruments, they protect life on the bottom and on the ground and in other ways. We can look to the boats ourselves. They are relatively small, and they can be thought to be suitable for energy exchange. Already a boat's electricity has been tested either to load on battery tanks or to connect them like a car. It is also possible to think that some of these boats are well - disposed of by fuel. Then I'm talking about fire machines or even hydrogens, so the boats themselves are or can be for eco-friendly fishing. Then there is the fact that these coastal fishing are usually not always, but perhaps in the greater number of cases, that there is a short journey on the middle and thus moderate to low use of fuel as well as low or moderate greenhouse gas emissions. You can also look to your own resources. Let us say that he is usually very well - mannered for his own fishing methods. There's little casualties. There's a small waste when you're using it. So all of this is now looking for better conditions in the environment or in a climate setting. Not to be overlooked is the social element itself. You see, he's an environmental factor on the way. I mean, the country's inhabited by land is a positive thing for sustainability. It has short distances, whether in the job area or in the service territory. If the settlement is not combined on a few cores in the whole country, and you need to move far to get something or cross the core, i.e. if the land is scattered, this environmental factor is quite clear, and, of course, it builds in part, and will always build, in coastal fishing. We can then look at one negative factor that would be the whole shipment of goods or products associated with these coastal fishing these days, because now it is so that a lot of transport is being done on e.g. Of course, fish are on the roads of the country. But there is hope, both with more activity at home and perhaps with exports from harbors that are nearby, or airports in this case, that it will look for a little better. Of course, the transporters themselves are being modified, i.e. The cars, the environmental actions. Why am I briefly covering these coastal climate teams? I'd like to try to put it into the big picture. Then I'm talking about a global context. I suspect, and I see signs, that the demand for low food reserves becomes louder and louder. I'm not talking about a general demand in the whole world. But this is evident in many parts of the world. It is expressed among companies, among the public and equally well-cored organizations, members, institutions, that in the management and management of transport, eco-efficiency is as low as the lowest. It is obvious that coastal fishing can become part of relatively eco-friendly food production, so to speak, with relatively low eco-efficiency. I'm not saying anything negative about eco-efficiency, but a relatively low-level environ ment. The same can be true of a change in habitat where certain deportations occur. People are moving from rural areas for many reasons. There will be shorter distances that we will have to put behind most aspects of our way of life. So changes in habitat patterns, the deportation I mention, also fall into coastal fishing. Third, strong coastal fishing is an introduction to food policy in Iceland. I briefly discussed it here in a drunk a few days ago and mentioned that one of them, one of which and perhaps the most important for the long future, was food production. I am absolutely convinced that it is partly on high technology and part of it for some kind of thing - we can call it large-sized or wet in large units. But it will also be based on food production, where the manufacturer is close to nature and where the consumer is near the manufacturer. That is why I regard powerful coastal fishing as an introduction to the future food policy as well as the part to be exported. Finally, I would like to mention that I have always been a spokesman for the growing coastal, euphoric, social hosting in the fishing industry in Iceland. We can say he's now 5.3%, but I want to see him much bigger. Then I'm not just saying it has something to do with the increase in eating habits, i.e. the enlargement of the quathane, but simply a transfer between what we call a big company in the production and in the middle and the size of the company. I think it's time and it's actually always been the time to reevaluate this ratio, and of course it's probably if the whole party is getting bigger. I'd like to mention it here because it's one of the issues that I as a left man see as important. Then I'm going to repeat what I said about the bill. I think it's a serious improvement, and I expect it to be. A professional health committee shows this much understanding, and it is quickly and well - mannered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u120	A respectable president. He is always well spent, the time in the Generals conference room when there is trouble. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson speaking. It is interesting to listen to him and to listen to the friends he enters, although it may not be related exactly to the subject of the bill we address here. Of course, it does. The future food policy is based on ecology. We're talking about exactly this in the garden, in the lamb and what we're doing here within the country. I think we in general need to be aware of the importance of it. We're all on that way. It's also a pleasure to relate, although I'm not going to extend this meeting much, that I think we're a little in agreement on this and that we're on our way. According to the information I saw, and also the reason. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter and others here in the hall when we were in Norway at a convention where the Icelanders were foremost, that fishing for Icelandic fishing ships is always becoming ecological. Today, we spend 45% less oil each given to a ton of fish. So we're doing great things. I agree that beach fishing and hook fishing are included in that debate, like line hunting in general. That's why it's very fun to deal with this. I also enjoy it, so I also accept this brief speech, that it is a professional committee that makes this case, this second time. I think it's good for the members of the Committee to get us together and to work together, to bring it together, and to bring it to the council, and to show people that we are working very well together, as we usually do. This issue, led by the Chairman of the Committee, is one of the fine things. Here, too, we are taking steps forward, but we were not well predicted a year ago regarding these changes. Of course, I had doubts about part of it myself, but I'm just very comfortable with how it worked last year. It appeared in the number of the Chairman and his answers earlier that we are going to continue to develop this bill and develop this fishing process, improve the process, and meet the wishes of the sailors. There are many of these, such as those mentioned here, such as the timing of fishing in the fields and other factors that we will predict in the future. We didn't quite finish our quota last year. We're still going to add now, and we'll continue to add to the tab that will be taken out of the cod requirements for each fishing trip. That's a very good thing to do. We are grateful to the secretary for meeting us and the sailors in that regard. I think there's also words spoken at the right time. The spell has not been well fished, and much of it is dropped each year. So I think it's just the best part. I welcome this bill and the solidarity it holds. We're going to finish this thing in time. I agree with what happened earlier. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður, that we need to take a better time next year to go through this as we planned. Consider the changes we will see to it that we can make so that we can meet the sailors better. This bill is based considerably on the safety profile of sailors. That would be 12 days to choose. I feel that we need to continue to look at choices in days, that happened earlier, and at least not rule out anything in that subject. I know some of that may not be possible, such as on Saturday and Sunday during the summer season. But let us not eliminate anything further. I want to thank my members of the Committee for a good cooperation on this subject and most of the others. It seems to me that the committee is a unit in a number of cases, and it works well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u121	Madam President. We're here discussing the bill of a professional network on a change in fish control law, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes i.e. for coastal fishing. As we have noted, the committee was united in the contribution of this bill, but since it is not a custom to make a warning in the prime report, I thought it best to come up here and be informed only of the answers I would have made if possible. Since these comments were not in themselves material, and I'm on the ground, while we didn't achieve any further changes in the peddler system and all that, support the coast and therefore support the case, and so did last year when the committee proposed comparable temporary changes in the legislation. The biggest change now is that each boat can fish for 12 days each month, as long as the balance of total resources is not reached under the regulations set by the Minister for Coastal Fish in 2018. I think that there's an understatement when I say that it wasn't very happy about the change last year, it's just a very mild wording, I think. Happily, though, all evidence suggests that the past summer's experience was very good and therefore a reason to establish it. But I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir and Magnúsdóttir Hynu Rafney, felt that it would probably be helpful for us to finish the work to appreciate the results of last year's changes. Like the Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, a member of her case earlier, is expected to have time for that at work now, with a job committee, which is just the best. As I said before, the evidence indicates, at least, that the experience was good last summer. What men feared most, that the pot would run out, did not happen. As mentioned earlier, the pot is even more extended, so there is an even greater chance that it will do so, as I said before, even though it has now done so in the last summer. Madam President. But what I've been wondering about this bill is, in fact, how it's done here. We've been lying around for about a while. a year it would be useful to change the law. So I don't quite understand why we're discussing this so late. I also comment that the matter has not gone into a course that may be most normal, i.e. That the bill came from a sea chief. Of course, it is good and even important that the council take the initiative in making legal adjustments, but in the case of changing legislation of one of our basic work systems, I would have considered it desirable to go on their traditional route in consultation with other members of the Ministry, through the government and members of the United States, to get the focus and coverage there. Madam President. After this discussion is concluded, the matter is again to the professional committee. The committee will probably start by asking for references to the relevant parties. Finally, I would like to encourage all who feel that they have a interest in this case to send in reviews to assist the committee in the work ahead of checking the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u122	Madam President. We'll discuss this bill, led by the head of the pro committee, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, on coastal fishing. Although I truly support the progress of this bill and therefore have given my name to it, I have a number of criticisms to the bill itself that I'm going to trace below. A respectable president. I don't want to understand why all these restrictions exist, as well as a double sum of money. One pot for the fishing and the other, a pot for each boat every day. And not only that, you can only fish on special days of the week. If the weather is e.g. Not an advantage for fishing could be lost. days on weekends. And you can only catch with a limited number of rolls. For our cousins in Norway, there are foreigners who have moved to the country of Iceland, where they have placed their home. Seven months later, our land is in flourishing development, with as much exorbitant as they can, and then as much as they can, as a cod as they can, and then 40 tons of cod, which is added as needed. But here in Iceland, you can't even move between partners with the boat. First in 2009, Jón Bjarnason and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon were placed on the beach. It contained a license for boats less than 12 meters to hunt and remove 650 pounds [650 kg] of unbound codfish. This was the first step, and it contained 6,000 tons into everything. Other restrictions were that fishing could not last more than 14 hours and could only be fished between Monday and Thursday, which was a tiny chronometer, only to be fished while supplies lasted and barely were injected into the pot. The mat was then divided into land by some algorithm, which resulted in boats in area C and D being able to go most days without being stopped in the middle of a month. The same could be said of boats in area B while boats in area A received two weeks each month, if they were lucky, where the tickets were generous and the numbers were greatest. Last year, the law was changed, and the pot was built endemicly so that all were caught from the same pot. In effect, this means that in area A, a very good fishing grounds, you should be able to fish the others and finish the pot. The reason for this is that the last summer, when boats simply could not catch fish, was a hell of a hell of a lot of money. However, in the southern part of the country, less days were used to get used to the limit of 12 days per boat during supplies, some of which had been able to go for 60 days earlier. But the change was 48 days now for everyone during the supply. To make matters worse, zones are held that are not able to go to more productive tickets but, rather, compete between parts of the country rather than follow the fish as they used to. As the situation exists today, all presumptions of boats in area A take and clean out the entire pot before the others. Instead of having equal opportunities, Southland could lose its days to 40 because it works so well in region A. Therefore, President, the requirement is at least that all boats get their 48 - day guarantees, and the pot will be removed, with no connection with the reality of this country on which we live. As I learned earlier, people in Norway have an unlimited search for evasion and exorbitant, and they can take about 40 tons of cod and sometimes more. This can be done by anyone who lives in Norway for more than seven months. This applies to both line-and-hand hunting, but hand fishing boats are used as lineboats in the winter when it is dark and need bait to attract the fish. To say that free fishing boats will overthrow the fishing grounds, we have very little evidence to support, and we have an example in Norway. They are free in the sense that you are allowed to hunt, not that all fish can be caught alone, or that all fish can be caught. It is very difficult to cause damage by hand fishing, since the weather kind of detracts from winter, while it is dark all those days, during the days when the wind is more than seven feet [7 m] per second. As we all know, in Iceland, there's never any wind, dear President. No. So our policy should be to lift the central pot and add extra gases to get them ashore. Then I think most people would accept their share. There's no big jump. As the people of the world know, there is no hairy place to be found. It seems so unfortunate that it is the main food of cods just before the spawning. As a good baker would say, no cake without butter. It would be foolish not to catch more cod in this situation. We have overprotective the cod population for many years, and the consequences are apparent in the dwindling shrimping stem, the missing sandsil and the unrecognizable fur stock. So it is shameful reasoning not to go fishing on small boats. The weather, currents, optimal fishing instruments, and darkness prevent overfishing. If overfishing on another board is possible, it would be by means of a fishing instrument that only hunts hungry fish in good weather, in light, and in favorable sea tides. We need to get this on. But I'm going to add this to another one, I'm running out of time. I'd like to pray to you who have the nerves of the country, those who believe that they are the patrons of the country's ongoing dwellings, scattered farms in the whole country: take back part of the damage we've caused to the country's settlements with all too strict fishing systems, bring back life to its ports, give young people the opportunity to go fishing, carry the older sailors a way to finish the last few years of what they know and can do. We need to do so by having a realistic system. If we have a realistic system, we can do all of this. Without it, we can do almost nothing of this, just like that. 30 years. Nothing. Let's let 'em go hand fishing 'em free for all the people. But now I'm on my way to hand fishing, and we'll talk about beach fishing here. As I mentioned at the outset, it was the first step in this case all those years ago when coastal fishing was started. The next logical step is to free hand hunts. This is not a mutual rule, that the bill we're talking about today will be accepted - although the one here would naturally want to see these changes I've been discussing here - and that hand fishing will be made free. It's a good thing to do. A senator, our deputy Pirata, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, gave a bill a few days ago about free hand hunting. To me, the next logical step is to look at that bill and bring fish in Iceland's modern world. I got it. I got it. Congress officials and the entire body of Congress to look at it as a bill and take it seriously. There would be considerable improvement for the fragile areas that we discuss very often in this room. Only back to the area change, as well as to the logicalness. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and your bill carrier came on, based on something like that. Coastal fishermen want to be where the fish is, naturally. And with regard to the firmness as the dog. A senator entered them now, for example. Even if they are strong in a Western land, they still live on the Hornigrom, destroying their income there. The tents go where the land is. But the fish vary at different times in different locations. It's just a fair thing for the whole country, for the whole nation. I encourage us who work here to look at the land a little more as a whole and not divide it into a part of the country, which is just a competition between parts of the country that is unnecessary to me. I'm going to finish my business by just coming on to one last detail, sort of going on with this thing. Norway has now been making treaties with Greenland. We talk a lot about climate and know that the acidification of the sea and the rising temperature in the sea affects the environment and the sea level, and all of that. The sea's colding is possible in this respect. I wondered, would Iceland not be expected to look at this - no doubt at home in a ministry other than the State Department, perhaps more at the State Department, I don't quite understand who would stand exactly in such negotiations - but we have to think about the future, the future of this nation, the future of this sector. As it happens, there is still a situation where the sea is colder than around Greenland. There are countries that are making deals, treaties, deal with Greenland in this regard. I can't see why Iceland will go and secure the stability of these sectors in the future, for future generations, and I'll reiterate the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u123	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good and extensive speech. It is always a pleasure to have a place of speech with people and to listen to the language of someone who puts himself in a matter and has ideas about how they want to see things develop. Me and what. A senator and others are naturally involved in this case. The job committee allows us to continue our discussion within the work of that committee. Still, I wanted to ask him why. A senator only into her ideas that she presented here so well. There is no question that the sea fishing has been a failure to make peace since its arrival. On the contrary, a large portion of both politicians and like men outside these walls have simply been against coastal fishing. V.E.G. In this morning, a sea emissary declared that he had been against coastal fishing. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in the light of this, and in view of the fact that we are pushing ourselves on to establish a more permanent system than we have, unfortunately, lived on so far. A senator does not consider this to be a winner, though, even if not all the ideas covered in a good speech were developed. A senator, that it is a victory, that remains in the seat of authority here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u124	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson. Ottar's son Proppér's very special answer and for the beautiful words of my speech. Yes, indeed! That's kind of my short answer. I always celebrate when things move in the right direction, and I also realize that you don't get all the things you want, either in this council hall or outside. But I really think this step is in the right direction, and I'm glad it's going on. I'd like to say something like that. paritaprevir Friðriksson earlier on the job on the pro board. That's a really good and challenging job there. It's a pleasure. I welcome steps in the right direction and good cooperation, but I want natural things - much likes more - yet they get through the changes I traced back here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u125	Madam President. Of course. I would not necessarily say much more. Rather, idealists want to continue working to improve matters for which they burn. Hv. In his speech, a senator did well to discuss the outcome of last year's summer. I'm not entirely sure that we could draw conclusions as far as I thought it would be. A senator will decide what the next summer will be like. There are various variables in it. The weather is certainly a major factor, but I make at least myself a lot of hope that the improvements we put here - and the fact that, despite the weather, the entire product of last year was not reached - making a concern. A senator because it's gonna run out in one area before it comes to someone else, i.e. I hope the most distant part of the area is unnecessary. Here, too, the change is made that if you want to move between areas, you may have a delay to May 1. Of course, they can move between their towns and their territory, but they can also move into a certain area. That's exactly what I wanted to ask you. A senator noted that the power of last year was 9,380 tons, or 820 under authority, and now a total of 1,000 tons are added. But then, like a snooze. The director of the trade board went over here, is authorized to add, if it is in other systems, free sources. I'm asking if she doesn't think there's a chance it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u126	Madam President. I appreciate the second answer. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. Is that enough? As I said in my talk, I have basically published what I think is enough. No, I think the bill, in the picture it is now, is not enough. I don't have time, just to trace it back. I don't have to do that. But as I said before, Piratar and I have a bill on hand fishing that I see as the next logical step - because we're discussing a step in the right direction and a more complete picture, and then I just want to stress it. As I said before, of course I celebrate steps in the right direction. But if we do not want all the things we want now, we will continue to make the changes we want to see in society, whether on the air or on the uterus. Then we have to somehow try to get into the government next time, and then maybe we can fix all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u127	President. I'd like to join the discussion to break up some ideas and discuss the matter. This matter is that there have been a lot of debates about it, about the coastal fishing system, for a long time. The changes made last year were not completely at peace, but they seem to have provided an excellent outcome. The reasons why the results were as good as they were seen were in part because last year's weather was with the worst we've seen in decades, that was the summer that never came. Therefore, there is reason to wonder about our approach to the beach fishing system and its development - this has been called an experiment for a very long time - whether it doesn't have to be looked at precisely by what steps it is practical and political to take at any given time. This bill is a good step in that direction, it's a positive bill. But we must always take into account the viewpoint we have on which this system should go in the long run. I feel that there is a measure of surrender in the bill, which comes from a job committee, that no further efforts should be made, especially in the light of what has been presented, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Kolbbi Óttarsson Proppér earlier, to the highest. Not always, the seafaring minister is not in favor of that system yet. Then you ask yourself, Is the idea being given up without the need because there is some political impossible against a marine minister in this case? I don't know. I don't make a special stand for it to anyone, but I wonder if it would have been possible to go a little further. I'm not going to make any major changes to the bill and assume that the job committee is doing the work of this case as well as it should. However, I criticize that there is only one pot and that it was likely the weather that caused it to be just 800 pounds [800 kg] or some unused last year. How Would You Answer? One thousand tons - I say more than a kilo - is an excellent step forward. If the weather is going to be great all over the country for the summer, which I hope will become so that everyone can enjoy it, then people from the east and south will be more likely to catch simply because pots run out. But we'll see. The other thing that I would like to further mention from a recent discussion of climate is that small boats spend a considerable amount of oil on a given ton rather than on e.g. tugs or other larger boats. I don't have an accurate number, but this is a question of about 100 gallons [100 L] per ton of caught fish liters of oil per ton of catch fish. As a result, you begin to think: " Wouldn't it be good for nature to see us looking to the beach fishing system, for growth, and for building up? It has positive effects on the environment, has a positive effect on the environment. It's a bad opportunity. On the other hand, today there is the total number of electricity fishing boats 0 in the country. This may change, following the development of technology. But I direct it to a business committee to examine and discuss between myself whether it could be said that in the case of electric miniboats, it would not be allowed to increase the number of handle buttons to six, which is an incredibly modest and simple change that would lead to a positive impulse that would make this smallest and the most unnecessary part of the fishing fleet will still be greater in the future. These are just a few questions. I'm not going to extend my case any further. I second that men have many and varied ideals for this council. The climate is very high in the minds of many and is about to take advantage of it, but many people also love the beach fishing system because it's a great system. Let us discuss where we want to take it and how we can develop it and even try to take a little larger steps. Sometimes we need to back up if it turns out that going all the way is political impossible, but let us keep our ideals in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u128	Madam President. At the end of this discussion, I want to thank you for a meaningful and meaningful discussion. It's been around many places, both by professional committees, who are certainly transporters of this bill, we all are, and others who have put their words in the matter. All of this is about the use of the Committee's work as well as the future, as we have seen. I'm one of those who've been walking on board cards that's been standing, free hand hunting! My heart beats that way. I wanted so much that in the future the system could be set up to have a free hand hunt, but I know that the political reality isn't exactly there at the moment. So I am very happy that we have managed to get things into the way that he is now. I've also thought of Norway, what they're doing. We searched Norway for prisoners about the fish fire, and we were able to look to Norway on these too. I couldn't agree with that. Let us face this subject, but bear in mind that we can always do better in these matters as well as in others. I thank you for this discussion and stress that we continue to work well together at the Committee and finish this on time so that the beach fishing could start. I hope that there will be others, and that there will be well-fished this summer, that there will be good breeding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u129	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Committees on billing on vehicle insurance, case No. 436 p.m. 1,136, and a new budget. 1,137. The Economic and Business Committee called for reviews. Reports were received from the Federal Association of Iceland, Economic Affairs, Land Racers, The Union of Iceland, Business Association, the Association of Travel Services, the Association of Financial Services, the Landbourg and County Council of Western Iceland, as well as a memo from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs. At a meeting of the Committee, Sóley Ragnarsdóttir from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Vigdís Häsler of the Union of Iceland, Gunnar Stefánsson from the Emergency Department of Landbourg, Gunnar Valur Sveinsson and Þorgeirsson from the Group of Tourism and Vigdís Halldórsdóttur and Gunnar Pálsson, from the Association of Financial Services. The bill suggests the specialisation of road insurance and the improvement of car damage due to vehicles in contrast to the particulars being found in XIII. 6th of current traffic law, No. 50/1987. It is proposed that new traffic laws take effect, and older ones drop off while taking that bill, according to Congress No. 219 during the current council. Their value of law is delayed by the usefulness of the bill under consideration for XIII. Chapter No. 50/1987 will fall away at its execution. The first law on damage to automobiles was set under law on the use of automobiles No. 21/1914 so that a turning point will now be established if there will be a set of road insurance regulations adopted in 2019. In principle, it is not intended to abandon the rules of insurance and benefits of driving equipment. However, there will be some changes to the current implementation of the bill and will be referred to in chapter 3 of this series as well as the following. The changes the committee suggests after discussing the matter with guests are the main: Conviction regulations for the labor of a vehicle in the rescue business. In accordance with local regulations, the responsible driver of a vehicle that draws another vehicle should be subject to harm due to the resulting damage, as shown by 2nd Job 1.mg. 88. g. traffic song. The rule is clear, including. Face it with criticism that as a result, rescue workers are afraid of hauling vehicles in rescue work. It is assumed that the principle will still be the same as in this regard, as expressed at 2 Peter 2: 2. 4. Article 2, but the second of the matter is proposed to be the exception of a vehicle owned by the National Emergency Prevention Association for Survival, to be avoided in terms of damaging responsibility when they drag other vehicles to rescue with the true consent of the owner or driver of the vehicle. The committee, however, received some indications that there was a need to clear up the range of conditions of this entitlement so that it would not only reach the Landsaving Prevention Society but also to other reactants, such as firemen and police officers. The committee agrees with these views and suggests a change in the wording of 2nd issue. Section 4. The bill means that when a vehicle is removed from another vehicle because of a rescue operation, it includes the authentic approval of the owner or driver of a vehicle. The committee considers such agents as established rescue forces and public response groups, such as police, fire departments, and ambulances, who may need to ensure a zone for the spread of fire or the like, can fall under the authority of the law. It should be noted that with this exception, the car driver is not going to allow another vehicle to be a exception to the general criminal rule but only to the objective responsibility laid out in the 2nd issue. Section 4. The bill. For example, general rules of the damage court are expected to still apply to cases of deliberate damage or gross inadequacy. Commenting on the Association of Travellers to the Committee, it is concluded that violating legal requirements for safety, e.g., should be considered a gross failure to violate legal requirements for use of safety equipment. a seat belt in a vehicle, and this would increase the incentive to use such equipment. This would result in a lack of respect for regulations 4 mg. Section 4. The bill. We discussed this, and in a memo to the Committee, the Ministry pointed out that a change in this being would prevent physical damage from obtaining damages or the loss of an agent if they didn't use a seat belt. The Ministry did not agree with the view that not using a seat belt should be compared to driving a drunk, under the influence of drugs, or using violent driving, which is then classified as gross indiscretion. The Commission agrees, however, that there may be some ways to encourage the increased use of automobile safety equipment, especially a car bell, but it points out that it is important to take a moderate measure in the implementation of regulations and direct it to the Ministry to take the case into consideration and shape suggestions on this situation. A comment from the European Union on who should be the responsibility of insurance companies on the payment of firefighters'expense to traffic accidents was also made. On the part of your community society, it is based on the point of view that if such assistance is necessary, the costs of such assistance should be dropped because of the insurance insurance of the vehicle or after the accidents of a vehicle's insurance system. This indication was not inserted into the bill, but it was reasonable that the Ministry would also take this indication for observation. Among the comments given to the committee and found by the Committee on the matter was that in this country there is a shortage of resources to respond to the panels or drivers of vehicles on the duty of threatening vehicles. Were even. It was noted that in the North countries, insurance policies had brought good results. The Commission insists that it is necessary to examine carefully the way in which resources can be used, such as insurance bills, in order to stop unconvinced vehicles from driving, resulting in annual damage to large sums, thereby increasing the levels of the industry. A memo received from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs states that the Ministry has a view of appointing a team who are responsible for this role. So direct the Committee to the Ministry that such a task force will be appointed, and the task must be sought to ensure that the Minister gives this bill to the next legislature. Other proposals by the Committee turn to the letter that it was directed to Article 3. Section 4. The bill would need to be briefed to make it clear that vehicles were attached regardless of whether the device was drawn, as shown in the original version of the bill, or if it was attached. These are such devices as snow teeth, taps, and other such. Having agreed with the Ministry, the Committee suggests a change in the wording of the law for this purpose. It has also been pointed out to the 2 mg/m2's accessories. 1 1. The bill, that vehicles solely intended for driving out of road or in runways and that are registered as instruments that are restricted to insurance insurance, should only have reached the responsible insurance insurance policy of a vehicle, such as Article 8. The bill, but not for accident insurance, compare 9. g., as far as it is concerned, the current rules on this issue were not to be ignored. The Commission therefore suggests an appropriate modification of 2 mg. 1 1. The bill for this purpose. According to 1st mg. 14th par. The bill remains responsible for damage to a third man who, although insurance insurance is dropped, remains until four weeks from the start of an insurance company sending a Community notice on 1 mg. 13th par. According to 2 mg. The law is not responsible for an insurance company on the basis of a driver's accident insurance and owner's insurance policy, such as 9. .............. 13th par. has been sent. The sources of financiers pointed out that the same rule should apply if insurance falls down during registration of registrations to a Community agency and that the Ministry agrees. Adds the committee to the appropriate change of 14th paragraph. In its review, the F.A. pointed out that each reimbursed to 2 mg 3 is unclear. Twenty-niner. The bill could be directed. The committee suggests a change in wording of the law that makes it clear that a insurance policy that has paid compensation after insurance was canceled according to Article 14. If you have a requirement for someone who has caused harm willfully or willfully fail. Other Commission proposals are technical and not intended to influence the subject of the bill. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in a special Senate document, No. 1,137. The writer of Ásgerður Gylfadóttir, who was in charge of the case, was absent from the committee, but literature was considered to be based on a 4 mgr source. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. All the members of this committee are in this committee body, Óli Olei Björn Kárason, Director of the Ásgerður K. Gyphaddótttir, Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Wílílíksson, Brifur Níelsson, the daughter of Álfheiður, Eymarsdóttir Haraldsdóttir, Einar Kárason, Our Þór Gunnarsson, and Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-21-82.u130	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill to legalize the automobile insurance and some minor adjustments. One of the changes is, as the bill puts it: Thirdly, the expiration rules are set aside. Now all the requirements begin in the four years from the end of the calendar year that the demanding worker learned about his requirement and was able to seek it fully. But at the latest, the requirements persist in ten years from a devastating event. The bill suggests that a four - year expiration date is not relevant for physical damage but is required in ten years. The bill and reviews list many, but none of those who care for damages or public interests in this subject, e.g. Like the Netothal Association and the Icelandic Automobile Association. My suspicion of this bill is also that, despite this change in the rules of Old age, it says: ▪ This proposal does not allow for any additional measurable effects on the payment of insurance insurance insurance companies. In other words, these changes are not expected to bring back any damages made, but I fear, as usual, that these changes will bring better results to insurance companies. When driving, insurance companies are obliged to deposit money on credit, a so - called insurance debt, on the social security number of the victims. And then the battle to get benefits begins. Sadly, the fact that it doesn't matter whether the individual is the only person who is a driver or a double - dog driver in 100% rights. It always seems to be the insurance company that controls it. So it's a little funny when you read that insurance companies have the same rights as any other accused of defending themselves in a damage case. That the right to damage and insurance company is the same, it doesn't make sense. It's never like that. The insurance company with its entire budget and lawyers is always superior, especially when the state sees to it that individuals do not get the urge to fight insurance companies. It doesn't seem to matter what you're trying to do, it's so hopeless to get a nurse today. It may take two, three, four years to fight health after poor road accidents, and the financial situation in most ordinary people has disappeared. It tells us that such damages and benefits are not really for ordinary people but for those who can afford to spend money fighting insurance companies. Then there's another weird thing about this, i.e. Access of insurance companies. They seem to have unlimited access to medical information and appear to be with doctors who can access medical information without having to write it down, without signing it, and then use it in order to repair damage tolerance. Then it's amazing that you can read data from an insurance company that is simply saying wrong things, e.g. such as moving the person from his own car to another car to create low energy injuries. When it comes to insurance companies, they say: It just doesn't matter if they were low energy injuries or high - energy injuries. What the insurance company says is all that matters. This also discussed the use of car cows. It was basically a group of such offenses as those who drink or are under the influence of drugs and who do not take mean measures there. The insurance companies don't follow a moderate degree. Insurance companies depend on how they can avoid paying. And they will do all they can to make sure that they pay as little as they can, and if they do, nothing at all. We often forget about insurance and road insurance damage issues, that the cost to the individual is high because of physical therapy, medical training, and so on. Usually, people will be stuck with the uncrowded expenses, even though they have every right to pay. It is said that not until 1 0 years from now, but it doesn't matter when you get into that the expiration rules are just a determination of certain doctors, which are usually chosen by insurance companies. People are on the wall: Either you accept the compensation or you just don't get anything. And the cost, e.g. for hospital accidents because of massive traffic accidents, the community does not hit the insurance company. Even so, the funds and insurance insurance debt are swelling out, that's billions. We know one of those things that disappeared in the collapse. He ended up as a luxury apartment somewhere in China, came back and ended up as a pledge to the pool on Elfune. These appetizers are never renovated. There's nothing in Iceland that obliges insurance companies to reimburse the funds. In Europe, this is probably taken up every four to ten years, as I understand. This is the main collection of insurance companies, these appendages, or whatever they do and make. The more insurance companies can add to the credit fund, the more they can make up for it. As a result, they reason: Okay, let's get everything into the credit fund, we don't pay anything out. I've been fighting insurance companies over the past few decades, and I've met hundreds, if not nearly a thousand people who have been hit by traffic accidents, and I've studied their cases. Yet, I have not met a single one who has been pleased with the benefits he has received. That's why I say we have to, and we're supposed to make sure that, if we're on another level doing damages, and by reforms so that people are guaranteed, they'll pay their insurance and they're entitled to pay their bills, and somehow make sure that people get paid out of insurance. So must we, and the government, and all of us to make sure that those individuals who cannot fight insurance companies because of lack of money are subject to failure. It has to be guaranteed. I say, there's gotta be a law in it. A fund or part of it can be used to make it clear by law that the damage suffered can be paid for, can ask for, can be judged cooks, can ask for just treatment. While we don't have it in these matters, we're always breaking down on the underdog, because we know it, and it's just a fact, that normal people can't fight insurance companies who have their own strings and can pay anything. How pathetic it is to know that you can get involved in taking your medical records and adulterating them! You want it. You'll report it to Pernon Protection. You win the case because the law clearly states that it takes my signature to get my personal information from medical records. It wasn't done. In order for me to get the same information as the insurance company's confidence doctor, I needed to show my ID. I had to ask in writing to get a copy of what he was quoting. I had to wait a week for that. I had to come back and give my ID and sign it again. This could be done and slided from their office in the Power House to the orthopaedic department of the Land Hospital, printed out, used without asking anyone, king or priest for it. A personal protection said it was illegal. What did the person do? Yes, he's sullied me and Peritoneal protection to the state. What did the District Court say? No, it's illegal. The case then went to the Supreme Court. There, at the strange fair point, the Supreme Court said: "It's okay this time. Somehow, the Supreme Court managed to say that, because I had signed an agency for my lawyer to protect my interests, and if I have renounced the right to protect myself from personal information in medical records. While this court's judgment is in effect, I'm just saying, "Guð help us." There is another in these matters that is serious about medical records, i.e. that they are wide open in judicial matters. It has very sensitive personal information completely open to all, by name and social security number, by address. It must tell us that there is more than little in our society if we're going to have things like this. Somehow I have the impression that this bill, considering what is being done there, is like another one, i.e. They're doing something for insurance companies, and they're gonna be able to use it in some way and thus avoid paying for what they're supposed to pay legally, according to what they should be. Sadly, though, there seems to be always some way to avoid it. In B. to help in Section 3.2 of the report is: A person who was harmed or killed by a deliberate or overwhelming failure could be reduced or brought to a loss of physical damage. Also, if damage has resulted in deliberate or accidental damage, the damage rate can be reduced or canceled. Of course, insurance companies will take advantage of it. They will do everything they can to point out that it's just out of the situation. I've seen the success of insurance companies, the burden of proof is often focused on these insurance companies. Instead of proving that the person has done something wrong, you have to prove your innocence. I hope that one day it will be so that we will create laws and review insurance laws, on damage laws, and so that the public, ordinary people who pay their insurance, drive out in traffic, will both be safe as drivers, and if it is damaged by 100% rights. It doesn't seem to matter. In all three struggles I've had, I've had 100% rights. My car was hit. But have I been replaced? No. Am I in debt? Have I lost this? Yeah. That's a lot of work. The most amazing thing in all of this is that no matter what you do, even things can grow old, they begin to grow old at the same time as medical treatment. How can something begin when the person is not even healed? But it can be done. It's done. That's how insurance companies work. It sucks to know that we have such a system that those who are sick, those who can't really defend themselves, cannot get lawyers because they don't get a job from the State. They can't get benefits because they don't get a job from the State. They cannot fight insurance companies because they do not receive a government application. They've lost everything. Economics can go, and the state says no, the insurance company smiles at other times, the funds are swelling out. And where should they go next? To Tort itself? We must think about that, because I remember that the late Pétur Blöndal ever talked about the funds and insurance debt as money without a shepherd. It must also be strange that I asked what was on my social security number or in the cashier's collection, whether it was 100, 200, 300 million. It's on my social security number, but I can't get that information. At the same time, a doctor was able to enter my medical records without anyone to stop him. It shows that we are so far from keeping these matters straight.
