ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u1	Now it's the end of the previous round. the financial programme of 2020/2024, with representatives of all members of the Parliament and then financial and economic ministers being given ten minutes each to complete the discussion. Those answers will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u2	Mr. President. First, I want to say about the financial agenda that it is designed in many ways suitable. It is helpful for members of Congress to be able to direct to individual advisers on the subject of financial programmes on the affairs of the Ministers. Despite the positiveness of the government budget, however, it is established on grounds that are likely to be broken. The repeated questions to the minister on handling such situations have been met by saying that the rest of the budget can be followed. As they have been said, it sounds as simple as drinking water. It is not, however, that as such a decision calls for a more intensive review of the core financial agendas, but it will be shaken out of control, just like that. This is known to all who have studied government laws. In fact, the social groups of possible maintenance measures are unsettled. Mr. President. The plan can't be better than the groundwork it's built on. We're here talking about some very important factors, which, as it happens, are very uncertain. In this regard, there are the effects of loss of air traffic on the job of a large number of people and on the number of tourists in the country during the year. There is also uncertainty about the outcome of a discussion. It is shown that both expectants and prices providers can be quite different and even broken. In fact, there has been no adequate analysis of the schedule how to respond if you were to form an airway that would result in significant reductions in passengers to the country. As a result, the news of the day as bad as it is, it is difficult to reach a conclusion other than the fact that financial programs are undeniably on a very weak foundation. Mr. President. It is mandatory to recognize that in many respects the status of the Kingdom treasure is strong. Is it especially happy how fast it has been to pay off the debt of state funds, especially because of irregularity of income, such as a stabilisation to the demands that have been made after the crash? This improved debt has set up a government fund from the almost unbearable position that prevailed when the largest part of the budget was paid interest on loans. At the same time, however, it must be said that the strong position of the state funds is at high prices when it comes to considering that the government's funds are highly dependent on taxes from the lowest salary. This has been failed by a synopsis proposal for low income taxation, i.e. the income that is under the established government forwardership, as it is for the introduction to the Ministry of Health. This suggestion means earning less than 300,000 dollars. Wouldn't be tax-free. The key option is to increase the personality discount to that end, but to drop it by increasing income - although in the income ladder, the situation is about to disappear around the income of about 560,000. Behind this proposal is what I could do, that it's very uncomfortable, to say no more, how dependent on state funds is on taxes from the lowest salary. And so the other was clearly shown in the very useful report of the European Union of Iceland, published in August 2017 on the development of tax burden. That report covers the year 1998-03/2016, and it shows that tax burden has increased in all income groups - but most for whom, Mr. President? Yeah, the lowest earners. The shadow also hangs over the state's position that it is bought with the price that social security has not been paid for, as has been repeatedly pointed out by the elderly and many others. It makes things worse for people in this situation to be made difficult, to speak out more strongly, if they have the will and ability to improve their employment with more work, because they deal with impairments, with great intelligence, and with hardness follow them. For example, the vacation market that claims to reduce employment benefits was successful in getting the government to raise the target to 100,000 dollars, to which credit is due, from this $25,000. which was once valid. The person standing here has given much credit to the loss of this target with the argument that such a operation will cost no government funds. There is a detailed report on this subject, which takes into account additional government funds from increasing income and making use of it. Have not been influenced by this calculation - but perhaps rather acted as if they had not heard what has been said about it. It should then be possible for the notorious decrease in social security benefits due to income payment from a pension fund. This arrangement eliminates the abuse of pension by people who have paid for long periods of time and includes a type of property. This refers to payments of low incomes. When that is true, you live with the same income as a man who has never paid for a pension fund. This has undermined the treasure of pension, and they have considered this in public areas, and they have brought down the people's faith in them. Must be counted as this action, of course, that has a long history, thought rash, and unrighteous. Of course, on the income side of the budget, there's a lot to say, but I just want to know that a new tax step will appear in opposition to a declareding policy of a simple tax system that may have been the case. Be more intimate to raise personality discounts. The general increase in income taxation that reaches to the highest level of income is in my mind critical, and one must ask: What is the basis for not losing a marriage mate? Why does it cloth like that out of dry water? On the other hand, the income side is held firmly to cancel the bank tax, as if it were urgent, and to do good with the banks in the process by reducing the fees to the FDA and the deposit of depositors. Since we're on the stage of the banks, Mr. President, I'd like to see that the insurance that's not covered in this proposal is a very burdensome influence for government funds. I remind them of my inquiry, which is becoming six months old to the secretary of finance for the cost of the state's funds for the housing team, which has placed virtually unbearable burdens on the homes of the people of the land. Finally, Mr. President, I want to know that in the financial program, there are ways of gratifying the unfundable commitments of the state funds to the Department of Pension of Public Workers. This is a very big case that must be discussed in detail because these pension bonds look completely different when considering the future's life prospects and not just looking back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u3	Mr. President. The economic foundation of the government's budget was smiling before it was discussed at the General Assembly. After the last news, it is obvious that it cannot stand as it is and that it will not be accepted as it is. Uncertainty grows. The government has set up its national policy in a straitjacket that will bite young people, people with low incomes, microplies, older citizens, and those who most need State service. The priorities of the programme are unrealistic, and it is obvious that there will be a cutdown or a payoff at the financial policy established by the government itself. The ASI and others have severely criticized the policy - it works as a balance in terms of government. In order for expenses to remain within the standard established by the government, 2% of the budget is set up. This will be added to the inevitable cut-off if the collective agreements of public servants lead to an increase of more than 0.5% in pay. In addition, there is a need to deal with the decrease in foreign tourists, in hairy restrictions, and in evaluating the impact on the state policy. And what will be the reaction to the highest. Governments? V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said that if economic growth becomes less than the basis for financial programmes, he will see no alternative than cutting down on the charge side, cutting into the welfare and infrastructure. Together, there will be uncertainty about flying, failure of the government's hair and financial policy, in order to make the crisis even deeper than the financial agenda assumes. So it will not be accepted as the same. If the government's reaction to the downturn of the economy is like financial and economic secretary has said it will be a reflection of an irresponsible right policy that will take on them as much as it should. The United States believes that the government's financial policy should be changed, changing government laws on public finances to allow space to reduce the damage to the decline. Thus, tax reforms and investments could be helped by subsidies, by subsidies, by subsidies, by smaller and medium-sized enterprises, and by ensuring the well - being of the country. It is in the down cycle that the government's financial policy begins to bite. The government's response will be tested, whether those in need of the State's service are in the front, or whether the dream of independent people to the less government activity and to the increase of personal welfare services comes up through the nation's trials. The budget does not work against inequities and stability. During the next few weeks, members will further review the plan, read the reviews received, and discuss it at the General Assembly. It is quite clear that the Conspiracy will provide changes in the budget for the future. The government's cutting policy on the welfare system is not to be taken lightly. The 1st. has been picked up on large conversations at the highest level. Minister. The main criticism of the organization of the plan as it is currently being made is as follows: 1st The additional requirement for the Ministry is slided into a financial programme, so if the remuneration of the state workers between 2020 and 22022 will be higher than 0.5% in excess of the financial price required by the Ministry to cut down the cost. This could be a substantial amount, e.g. Within the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. The government expects government officials, including the great women's classes, to increase no more than 3.8% in pay between 2019 and 2020, but if they reach better treaties, those who need their services will carry the cost with increased pressures - or the women's services. In a conversation or two. Councilmen and the Supreme Court. One health minister made it clear that not all of them realized that there was a beginning on the road that could cause significant cuts in the welfare system. Each percentage of the pay paid by a state worker costs about 2 billion. There is a large uncertainty factor directed to the national welfare services, the account that the government intends for those most vulnerable and in need of welfare services. 2. Government funds are still weakened. On it. The upcoming years of government income have been systematically weakened by the detriment of resource taxes, the reduction of hunting costs, and the consumption taxes, as well as the government's lack of income for travel during the years. Although the plan allows payment on tourists, I think that all of us can agree that there will be nothing of that payment now, much more than when it was better. The weaker income stocks can subtract from failure to finance a system of welfare that can be promoted by a welfare community. 3. But overall housing costs increase by 3.8 billion for the next five years. Thus, there is no intention of rebuilding the growth reform system and support for the first buyers is not found in the program. The proposed proposals of an effort group on housing are not financed. Everyone claims to agree that the problem of housing and the cost of covering the head is of the magnitude of the problem that only government care will be solved. It is obvious that there will be an increase in the budget proposed by the government, whether on the economic side of the host's house or on the welfare side. 4. There is no plan for further improvement in the child-replacement system. The objective of the government continues to be that the child - welfare system is a kind of poverty rather than a general support for children's families. This year, 13,000 families receive child support less than in 2013, and the total amount is lower in real value than in 2013. 5. Once again, old age and disability are to be left behind. They are still to wait for righteousness. True, this is expected to be 4 billion more because of changes in the social security system, but it will be enough if the costs are improved to some extent. Money from people living together doesn't reach the minimum. It is only those who live alone and get household chores that then cut off a dollar from the minimum. It is shameful for us, this rich nation, to live so badly that micropairs and older ones, those who rely almost solely on the insurance system. 6th The government doesn't show enough ambition in climate. An emergency that confronts us becomes more severe. We need to do better in transportation, where there is a great deal of emissions. We must increase energy exchanges and look at all transportation from work to global warming. We need to work a great deal against the rise in carbon footprints of food and imported goods. We simply need to do much better. 7. The plan shows that public plans are blurred and adhered to to extra room for investments. It suggests that banks and parts of the government are to be sold in companies to finance infrastructure without further implementation. 8. The contribution to the County Fund is to be reduced by 3 billion. The role of the equation is to finance a portion of services to disabled persons and the necessary services of rural persons who are in a poor financial state. But that's where we're going to get the money. That's where the government wants to get the money, to the locals. We in the United States believe that this budget of government with all its flaws and uncertainties will not be accepted as the same. I trust it to the highest. A government has drawn up stagemaps, set down processes that have no left to address what will inevitably happen when WOWir retires. I trust it to the highest. The government will first look to where the plague will be greatest in the coming days and weeks - to the southernnes. Of course, because the plaque will first arrive there and work will be reduced to the terminal. The statistics that you would like to consider in terms of the problems of people who are losing their jobs in the next few weeks and months include a total of 950 passengers in the air station alone. We need financial, president, and financial policies that ensure economic and social stability. We need a government to make sure everyone's in it. That government won't. The policies and plans of the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u4	Mr. President. Hv. The legal committee and the other committees of the council are waiting for the great task of identifying and discussing financial programs. I want to thank you for a good discussion at the General Assembly for the past two days and for the general involvement of the council. It is important that all of us in this room take this assignment together. Few things are more important. An advanced financial strategy shows that government funds and financial matters are strong, and the situation has changed in recent years. Despite economic setbacks, the wealth is well equipped to handle what is waiting for. Growing up is a real challenge. Much growth also follows the loss of potential efforts to improve the business and the responsible use of taxpayers. We must never forget that we are here discussing and investing the money of the people on projects that we all expect to be efficient and to keep tight on the welfare community we want to build. During the first day of the discussion, there was much discussion about the basis and economic outlook. As we discussed in the discussion - and many of us were approaching - it is important that we have a balanced view of our prospects and circumstances. The main issue is to sense and assess prospects responsibly, to work on them to reduce fluctuations, and to take care of how government funds will be directed by responsibilities. The budget is the plan and the nature of the estimates is to identify potential anomalies. This strategy is designed to follow such an aberration analysis. The risk comes with a great deal of growth, especially when it is built on a weak foundation. Hv. paritaprevir Over the last two years, Ramídi Friðbertsson has been tireless, pointing out the system risks of rapid growth in air service for the Icelandic economy. Sadly, this article does not look well, although hopefully only temporary setbacks are involved. This teaches us the lesson that we have the best way of doing and that we succeed when we create a situation for variety of employment and solid foundations. So now, as always, it will be that a financial committee reviews the basis on which the matter is based and operates the research needed to explain the picture more clearly, for many people feel that it is unclear. The discussion of the past few days does not give me reason to say that there is a major disagreement on emphasis, beyond what, of course, may be perceived by different categories and the emphasis of individual senators. The categories listed here laid the basis for these emphasis changes about a year ago, and they continue to be processed here. As a result, budget 2020-2024 is the continuation of a strategy we discussed and adopted a year ago that put new emphasis and policy change. At that course, we're still working. So here we have been wondering what tools we have to deal with. I traced it into my speech, not repeating it here on long terms, but reminding that the plan is set aside for a nice change, some 30 billion dollars, which is in line with government policy. A reserve fund is put here, but it is absolutely necessary to legalize public financial matters, as well as to have resources to determine by their actions how close it is to government policy. The budget enhances government investments in recesses and when investments are made in private markets. It thus supports the economy through investments in infrastructure, whether in social or economic infrastructure. Most important, however, is the reversal that has been in the debt of the state's funds in recent years and with the reduction of his financial expenses. I don't think a lot of people actually dreamed of it for a few losers that the State's debt rate could go down to 17◯18% of land production at the time of a financial program we're considering. This situation, for example, has severely reduced the financial cost of domestics and businesses in the country. This is the key to building up a demand for a standard of living and increasing the competitiveness of an enterprise that the state's budget builds up a continuing decrease in interest. In a recent bond tenders, a fruit requirement for a secure bond category was about 1.2%. This is of utmost importance because it is the basis for the loan of homes that are financing for housing, as real - life rates have dropped dramatically in recent years. That's what we do best to defend, benefit everyone in this community. But this development on another side also provides a basis for the fact that here you can continue to reduce spells on people and businesses. It provides an opportunity for us to turn the Kingdom's interest costs into investments - on roads and on their maintenance and other infrastructures that we need to improve. And to improve our basic systems in social, educational, and, especially, health matters. With increasing economy, everything can change in a short period of time. How important it is, then, that we keep our financial resources strong and keep high on government matters, as a matter of principle, in dealing with the coming time! We never put too much emphasis on putting this into practice, for there are enormous sums of money that have been released when we look to that plan. It may then be estimated, as discussed in the plan, that the annual budget for the state at the end of the programme has dropped by one hundred and twenty-five billion dollars. Mr. President. During the discussion and especially during discussions with individual ministers, there were a number of projects that need to be considered and discussed in the treatment of the council. I'm not gonna count them all together here. We know them a lot from the discussion on the budget. In the autumn and many of the problems that we need to be able to analyze and work harder than we can do in the fall. However, I am reporting such projects as financing of nursing services, and I am reporting the use of new transport funds, how to use them, and how this use will be used in connection with other potential funding in road management and its interaction with the pressures of traffic - and especially how we use them in connection with new means of improving the country's environment. I'd like to finally, a respectable president, thank you for a good and perfunctory discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u5	A respectable president. In recent years, I have been bitterly complaining about the lack of government law. The answers have probably been that some induction process is being carried out. But I've never been allowed to see a government plan when it's time to comply with current laws. It is now, for example. New traffic laws are being won. Will the people of the land have the means to produce laws? A few years, even? If a driver is taken with 0.3 Prombl per breathometers, can he only say he is using new traffic laws? ◯ I'm down to 4.5 now, so that's 0.3? I'm just putting it in, it's not exactly on my schedule. What I have most objected to is the shortage of cost - analysis of government policy. In order to explain my case in a clear way, I simply want to read from a bill's cover on public financial matters, in particular from 20. g., a fairly long quote, by permission of the President: The law recommends that a part - time minister is responsible for policy development for issues and litigators under his direction. Ministerial planning shall include the objective and emphasis on the structure and development of each subject's activities to at least Five years old, as with the duration of financial planning. The provision contributes to the overall long-term strategy by looking beyond the coming financial year to policy-making policies and providing a timely priorities for projects and funding. Fundament and priority of projects. It should then be determined whether planned action and emphasis requires adjustment, or if there are other direct or indirect effects on practices within the topic field or other sectors of society, including private activity. At the same time, there are goals and emphasis within each topic field for the next year's budget and the way the proposed measures will contribute to the overall improvement, increased efficiency and development. It is if you are so generous to say that your introduction to most of the things listed here is over. But this is just the beginning. For further explanation, see the report again by permission of the president: It is possible to create an overall picture of the government's activities in all areas of long and short term. It also allows the General to better assess the basis for a financial strategy [...] based on their coverage of a bill for budgets in the overall context. Moreover, in view of this, each minister should prior to June 1 each year publish a annual report on the effectiveness and benefit of the provision of budgetary measures in relation to set objectives and measures [...]. This contributes to increased maintenance, including the implementation of funding, the assessment of policy and priorities within the sector has been made and the actual effectiveness of measures have been performed. In this context, it is important that both general and specific targets, including quality and services, be clear and clear. A annual report on the results and benefits of the provision of funds? How can this be done when there is no expense? What real success will the government's actions bring? It came, for example. conducted in the highest talk. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers that the goals set out in government policy were just predictions. No, a minister should convince us that the policy that a minister puts forth better results than not doing anything. Thus, a minister should convince us that the funds a minister asks for on the project laid out in order to test government policy, will bring us the results set out in accordance with government goals. The report continues on policy measures, again by permission of the President: Despite the nature and scope of the work that will depend on the individual topic areas, the same view applies to the preparation, implementation and implementation of policy policies for all sectors. In this context, emphasis should be made on clarity, simplicity and transparency, including to prevent abnormal overlap of targets for individual language groups. Who is going to sign that this financial program we have right here in front of us is ◯ explained, simple, and transparent in terms of government policy, as far as it goes, and how it affects our society? No one? No, I thought so. Who will argue that this financial program meets these requirements? You see, just as a former justice minister recently learned, it is two different things to sign and reason with them. If this part of the production bill on official financial law is not clear enough to the government, it will only have to read a little more, as it also discusses the production of government policies in a numbered list, which reads, by permission of the president: First, policy measures are aimed to ensure that the objectives and priorities of each subject are identified and that there are clear priorities. Second, policy measures include formal analyses and assessments of the status of services and activities of the individual topic areas. Such analyses may, e.g. showing that there will be a reevaluation of the criteria for the scope or arrangement of a particular service. Third, policy selection involves a decision on which way to follow to achieve set goals. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their differing factors. Fourth, policy measures include the final design, defined and priorities of the analyses work done. Targets should be obvious, objective, and measurable. Special emphasis should be paid to define the quality of the service to be performed in relation to the amount of funds designed for its purpose and to specify when setting goals should be met. To improve the rate of success, goals need to be adjusted. Fifth, the tasks and actions, including the adjustment of the law, must be defined in order to achieve set goals. It is important that procedures be consistent, that the responsibility and function of different parties are reviewed, and that key risk factors and challenges are generally assessed. sixth, a strategy for the implementation of the individual aspects of the policy must be submitted, ensuring harmonization and setting priorities and setting up deadlines and a planned cost. It is expected that the implementation of individual projects and initiatives in Member States' policies to three years of age should be agreed by the local minister. This is a paper on the current law, about 20. it's a government law. This is not an article on an induction program for public financial legislation. I could state that there is some lack of precision to begin with - at least That the spirit of the law, the foundation of their purpose, is reached. But when it is as important as the cost of action is missing, I must make a serious remark. And here she is: an important observation. If we have a cost estimate and priorities, we are much easier to deal with the economic changes we see today. If your priorities are set, you will simply see what is happening when it is well - worked or bad. They need a field-of-view analysis. But there's one field-of-view analysis here. The important thing is that in the report I read, there is no forward analysis of what the economy looks like, what the results look like, without government policy. So that we can compare: ◯ This is how the situation will be if governments do nothing, just move on in our present course. But then the government's further: ◯ We're going to do this in order to be more effective. Then we can compare: What are the benefits of government policy against doing nothing? We will be able to compare ways in which we can achieve government policy. What's it like, for example? ... withthepantryofours? What are the benefits? Will the benefits be equal to the percentage of parents who take birthworm? Is that your goal? Is this really possible? What evidence is it short? These are the questions that need to be answered when setting goals and budgets and when compared. For example, simply increasing the birthoral strength could be compared. What would be the result? Would it be more effective for the goal of increasing the proportion of parents who take a baby's ordinary? Data demonstrate this. Not to extend the ores. But there are also rights to extend, a good goal for itself. I can sign that. Are you sure this will achieve that result, or what? What about single - parent families? It's more complicated than it all looks, and that's why government laws have to be followed as planned, as the report indicates, so that we really can talk about government policy in one way or another. We have an old-fashioned financial plan, as I've said before, because it's missing. Hence, after all, we cannot talk specifically about government policies. But I can criticize the fact that law is not being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u6	Mr. President. This is the fourth time the budget is submitted, but only the first time the same government provides a revised plan. Already the first round. As to the financial plans of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir has come to an end, there is every reason to say thank you. Councilmen and the highest. advisers for the discussion. It is also important to maintain the comments that have been made about the work programme and the implementation of the programme. Fundamental committees have called for careful analysis in the financial fields of the consultants, how to work more systematically, and how to do better. There will come a time when there will be a time when there will be a time when there will be an experience with these laws. The discussion has been good and perfunctory, and the arrangement has been excellent. A good time has been set aside to communicate, and I think it's going well. But in order to include just what I take from the discussion, the view of the need to look for additional concerns because of the uncertainty of the economy has come up. It can be said, especially in the light of tomorrow's news. For quite some time, though, it has been clear that the economy is becoming cold. A professional investment is summed up, one of the Icelandic airline's gone under, and the hairy just didn't show up. As I came into my speech a year ago, it is important that the economy be restored in a soft way. But this has been an exception rather than a rule in Icelandic economic history. Economic forecasts indicate that economic growth in this year will be considerably lower than predicted when financial policy was established. The difference is significant, but when economicism was set, economic growth was foretold in 2019 2.6%. Now the forecast is 1.7%. Other analysts talk about even less economic growth and analysis of the Orion bank that this year's recession to two percentages of WOW's next pass, which was so experienced this morning. You can agree with anyone who says it's a state of uncertainty about the rest. I also agree with the words of a financial minister here this morning, who spoke about, of course, that it would not be wise to have a goal of living up to 0.9% a year, where the economy is much less or even growing less. What I believe is the greatest weakness in the long term, however, is the recession of the job investment. In the commercial investment of today, there is an increase in production and production of tomorrow's day. Just because of this recession, it is so important that the government increases its investment, to make good use of manufacturing factors when the tensions relax. It could never go on in the long run that the economy could grow by 4How5% a year. There is no state in our part of the world, I think, which has grown at the same rate as the economy in Iceland has grown over the last seven years. Actually, it's perfectly normal to give up once in a while in a tiny, open economy like Iceland. That is how it has always been here, and it is in either ankle or ear. The best way, then, would be to compare economic swings with small cities rather than millions of people. But there is something else that will lie with us. There's room for money policy. Most of our neighbors are in debt at zero interest. If they in Black Air assess that there is room to lower driving growth in order to allow oxygen to enter the system, it can be done. A respectable president. I agree, though, with the President of ASI who spoke of it last night's Cutty that there's no need to predict some more severe landing. This can be used for the use of the government's financial resources, to steer the wind into the wind, and to use them as economic instruments. This is a stable position, a national service service has been suspended for years, we have a valid currency reserve after our travel years, we have more abroad than we owe, and we already have a debt. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's an assignment to face this successfully, and we can deal with it. Mr. President. The budget of the King of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is a building program. The course established by the financial programme of the year continues. We are making significant more investments on all of our most important activities; health, environment, education, transportation, and innovation, to name just a few. There is now a collective contract between the employer and the employee's representative. Contracting between these parties on how to divide the value of which to own the companies and those selling their jobs is a great deal of work. Colleagues have stood firm on the view that the lowest remuneration can be lived, and I accept it. The government, although not a member of this agreement, has funded massive measures to cover collective agreements. The response to the efforts of the labor movement leaders to maintain social and economic stability, including government, has been positive during these last days. by helping the labour market party to increase the provision of people's resources, by continuing to restore social housing and finally extend the birthworm, by reducing the low tax rate, and by bringing on a more righteous, progressive tax system. This is a success in terms of equality and well - being, is a step in the right direction, and makes people's lives better. A respectable president. I'm here to present some of the principal issues of the government in this financial program. The focus of the government and health minister is on the health - care sector and there is still a substantial increase in donations for public health care. There are continue to be a reduction in the reduction in health income support and 9 billion will be spent during the planned period. Mental - health issues are focused on the quality of the health care unit as its first stop, which is in harmony with the mental - health policy and plan of action. This year, 650 million have been spent to increase the number of psychiatrists in the medical profession and have established mental - health professionals all over the country. In the years that follow, additional donations will continue to be maintained to promote mental - health activities of 100 million people. K. every year to 2024. There will be an even greater growth in nursing planning. The total number is 27 billion. ... tothisimportanttime. This means that 133 could be built in addition to the 790 spaces already planned throughout the country. And I must also say that construction accounts for about 1.5 billion in the Akureyri Hospital. A respectable president. This amount of money has never been spent on the environment. It is very important that resource management become sustainable and that climate change will be addressed by man and the financial programme will clearly show the government's priorities in handling matters. Over the next few years, less than 7 billion are expected to take special action on climate issues. It is a complete revolution in Iceland's environmental protection. However, there is reason to note that this is not a total financial level to climate, since public transport is expected to include less than 2 billion and more. Then it is noted that during the days, environmental and tourism ministers reported an distribution of more than 3.5 billion dollars. over the next three years in infrastructure and at the same time, it is estimated to be about 1.3 billion dollars. Especially landkeeping. The government's emphasis is on advancing education in the country and is beginning to shape education policy to the year 2030. Education contributions continue to increase, and changes were proposed to the LIN, to a great advantage for students. Research and innovation are highlighted, and it is important to note that the prime minister has set up a team to evaluate the distributions of scientific and technical funds. It will be interesting to see these findings, especially with regard to the country. In the discussions with the Minister of Education here yesterday, it was found that it is important to increase the number of graduates from the field and technical education. Even there, I believe it matters. looking forward to the fact that students are often small, and they need to be adjusted accordingly. A respectable president. The program has special emphasis on children's culture and affairs in the Icelandic language and is expected to be 15 billion to this area each year. The wealth of artists' collections and professional employment and projects fund, which is set up and set up a new fund of support for the publication of Icelandic books and a temporary contribution is made to the New Children's Culture Fund of Iceland. The greatest challenge lies in ensuring that Iceland will continue to be used in all areas of national life and in the digital world. It has the key to the grammatical project, and it is funded. It refers to national storage problems and will focus on solutions such as telecommunications. There I would like to consult the country's settlements, where such facilities can be obtained or built, and at the same time create jobs or add to existing ones. Mr. President. We all know the discussion about the state of the road system. Too many roads have been badly lost, we do not talk about the increase in tourists on the roads. In the years 20200/2024, estimated 132 billion are being made in investments in the road system. Here, I have reviewed it in short, that we will use the space available to bring a powerful injection into the economy now that economic growth is contracting faster than forecasts have anticipated in the past few months. A respectable president. A financial committee is now getting the situation and is called upon by experts to evaluate the issues of uncertainty. Things will be explained in the weeks to come. I haven't felt that there was a particular disagreement in the discussion. People agree that there is uncertainty in the economy. Of course, it doesn't matter whether the glass is half full or half full. Some feel that the bow is too high, that others want to add, as is the case. There's a lot of food for the Committee job and a lot to look at. I trust we'll do it well and we'll do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u7	A respectable president. The leaders of this financial program were smiling before coming out of print. After tomorrow's news, it's kind of a great fictional story. This financial strategy, which is put forward by the government, I think, will serve as a permanent reminder of its complete incapacity to the economy. When this government business was established and the government repeatedly introduced its first financial program, it was warned of how unwary and really irresponsible it would be on the part of the government to direct this government as if we could enter the eternity to 3% interest, it would not be at the rate of baseline law on public finance, a baseline, such as the long - term sustainableness of the state's financial affairs, a measure of skill or firmness. It is good to remember what was in the past on this road to reevaluation of the law on public finances. This was so that in a time of economic recession, we would always have to take a cut in terms of government or tax gain or both, that the last cent in the savings bay had already been destroyed. Not surprisingly, this government was not to be surprised that the Icelandic economy is swinging. It's the economy of the Icelandic crown. We have the most swinging economy in the Western world. To have no table for which to deal with what at the moment seems to be going on, on the Icelandic scale, but still, a relatively soft landing, despite all. There's no need to paint the devil on the wall. We've got a feasibility report, e.g. Advertisements published yesterday morning by Arion Bank, which assumes that on this scene, WOW is gone to the head, will become a recession in land production by 2% this year, and perhaps by more than 1% on the next one. It's not the end of the world, but it has a huge impact on the survival of a government fund, so it's measured into tens of billions. The picture that the government invented in this financial program is actually a dream one, which, though, assumed that toward the end of the budget would be the result of a government budget of 60 billion dollars. less than this is expected. Interestingly, for the government to be sustainable in the long run, another two must be done. The spending level of this financial programme must be fixed to what is consistent with sustainableity and long-term awareness of the government budget or to raise the taxes in handsome terms. We, the reveries, kept asking about the financial program during the past two days: If anything ahead of giving up this financial program, whether the representatives of the government are in charge of plans for a tax increase or an expansion? In the vast majority of cases, the answer was: There is an agreement about the tax reductions planned. They support tax deduction plans. It is often said that there is never the right time for tax doctors, but when the economy slows down, it is probably the best time to pay taxes if at all possible. I think it would be a very good time for the tax decline we're going into right now, to ease the burden of the houses just right away, to make it easier for the households to cope with the economic blow we're going through. Let us remember, too, that in Crenchland, the same type of hit is always the same. We're going to get gang damage and inflation shots, and we're going to raise our loans. The burden of our payment is increasing, the power of our income is reduced. Under such circumstances, it would be very good for families to have some tax reduction in order to help them cope with that blow. This is supported by our firm stand on the woodland. The problem that we face as we look at and treat the budget committees on this budget today is, of course, how much this government's budget has been paid, how much has been added to the government's pay in short time, how much has been promised in the additional budget increase, and how it is to shoulder the responsibility to adapt the economic reality that we face, while defending the plans for the tax reductions that have been made clear and include. a part of the government's involvement in the solution of collective agreements, which hopefully end up in an agreement at the labour market. I don't really get myself discussing the financial program of this much materially. It really is completely unrealistic. I've found a bit interesting to listen here to the representative of the greater part of her talk, and actually just a private discourse, as if nothing ever happened, when it's perfectly obvious that we're facing a completely different reality than before. Of course, it is of interest that in spite of the huge expansion promised in the budget, despite the fact that this is raising the original budget, I think of nearly 100 billion dollars. However, a fixed price per year in the duration of the strategy is not an indication of the existence of funds, e.g. to deal with a new biofuel system. It is simply not financed in this financial program. It is financed, according to some accounting effects, that there will be a sudden reversal of the rate of disability - which is completely unrealistic, especially when we face the prospect of unemployment getting worse by the shock we're going through. And not only that, but that it is also promised that there will be an attack on our education system and that, for example, there will be an attack on our education systems. in the university, the average OECD countries should be donated to a student's donations. However, the budget does not contain any information about once the number of students at the university or the current level in this regard. We talked at the highest. The minister of education was not to see that any such information could be drawn out there, either. Of course, it is a little difficult to set goals if we do not know which point to take. We know, however, that our university degree is currently dealing with the adjustment of high school level and has a double year to go through college at the next semester, which must include a number of students. There's almost no increase in expenses. So this promise is not financed in the financial structure either. Then the plan assumes that remuneration of public employees and pension workers will be in a way that differs greatly from that of the labour market and of the economic leaders of this financial programme, such as they are now, allowing for all other remunerations as well, much higher than the government intends to improve the social security or pay of its own employees. So even though the economic premates were completely unrealistic, those who paid for it were also the promises made not even abdicating at the feast offered. I think it will be an inevitable project of the budget board, since the government refused to face the economic reality - and I'm going to say that the government failed a financial test. It's not a management, chief. Secretary of finance. This is not a ruffled way to use the government's funds. We are faced with a problem that has always been the same as it has always been when the economy is slowed down. We need to deal with the task of cutting down the state funds - a high-priority project, pardon me, Mr. President, one more trip. We really haven't learned anything. However, there will be an inevitable material application to this financial program that needs to be reassigned. There we will use the projection of a tax shrink-infested projector - but it will be an excellent reminder of the total failure of the government's financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u8	V.E.G. President. We're about to finish the first round. On the top of the budget budget. Katrín's government, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has been talking about in the last two days and until the evening. I'd like to say, the discussion's been good, it's been very objective. There are many helpful suggestions on a number of aspects and projects that this extensive schedule contains and that are therefore presented in the discussion. It is so natural at the end of such discussions that we ponder over it, a respectable president - and, indeed, always - what form would be appropriate for such discussions, for such an extensive and important matter as a five - year financial plan. Ministers need to come and discuss policies and plans and responses for the issues and issues that they hear and are responsible for. That conversation must be conducted and made inevitable -- for as important and targeted issues as the strategy is. This may be the most appropriate form of conversation. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers that members of Congress would want more time for that conversation. I'm gonna think about it here, so I'm gonna point it to the highest level. President looking into it. At the same time, though, I say that I feel that the form is clear in this regard and that I have been doing well and that this conversation has especially been made with members of Congress and Ministers. I watched the discussion very carefully, and a number of factors were established in this program. It must be kept in mind that the financial program is getting a lot of space at the council program, which covers over three days, and thus there is an inevitable limit of time for debates. However, the participation was more general. The number of people in the discussions is positive. That's fine. So it is that the matter is now very early for the council, and that is well said. A great deal of work has been done in institutions and conferences to bring this into the council on time. I also want to thank you for the presentation and distribution of the case, unusually for the previous. I now felt that the discussion was positive. As to the topic of discussion, economic presidents have been greatly discussed and in line with government laws, in order to form the baseline values and the financial rules or conditions that must be met with policy and plan and budget. I get that discussion well with these economic criteria, less economic growth than many in recent years and the underlying uncertainty. However, it is important to keep in mind that a plan such as this is just a tool for getting a clearer picture, thus creating a rather firm and responsible quality, since economic developments will always depend on uncertainty. As a means of public finance, such a plan will help us to face changes and developments in the economy and to make better informed decisions on the provision of public funds. In this connection, as I did in the previous talk, I want to draw out what is to improve the rest of the plan from previous schedules. I would like to mention a straggler analysis, as found in boxes two and three in a paper with the synonym. They're a great improvement. In this context, 8th degree. the law on public financial matters is about economics, and it stipulates that public interest and national interests should be based. This strategy is based on an up - to - date National Organization of Iceland from February 2019, which also takes into account the economic impact of government plans. We must not forget that during the discussion when we talk about uncertainty and why this forecast takes into account the economic impact of the activity being proclaimed. It is important to keep in mind that the expressed growth and investments support the circumstances in which we live. Further, this plan is based on the Treaty Treaty and the current Strategy and the current programme for 2019◯23, on the legal resources adopted by the Council in December. for 2019 who are developing as late as the year goes on. This will be the nature of the case in terms of certain uncertainty issues over which the source and authority are actually in reality in the process of a trial. The Habitat project for 1.7% economic growth already anticipates these factors, reduces the number of tourists, reduces the rate of private consumption, and decreases in sectoral investments. This economic development, therefore, is already in the interest of the financial agenda to this extent, and it was found at a meeting with The Habitat on the economy in February. However, it is our assignment during the council and why. The legal committee is calling for information and data to further explain this picture. It may be noted, then, that in a dynamic economic environment and an open economy, we should look to factors that build for future beauty and economic growth. Economic and economic values will develop by such factors and by increasing production. Here in this program, we can look to many factors that promote such a trend. I give policy measures and proclaim changes in education and increasing education expenses, changes in academic loan systems, major increases in transport, an additional 4 billion in addition to the current programme. It is of great importance that large numbers of contributions for innovation, research and development and knowledge are being developed and are now being developed into a complete new creation policy and design policy. I also have the hope, a respectable president, that public clusterism can become part of such policies. The tax returns for research and development costs have been improved, as well as for the research, development and innovation environment involved in strengthening and strengthening. This applies not only to fields of knowledge and starters but in a number of areas in more established industry and to solutions to social challenges in welfare. Such emphasis is one of the main prerequisite options for our increased production, fortification and competitiveness, and thus for a more favorable economic development and long - term improved biographies. This link to the future is important, as is being proposed in this programme, increased contributions to environment and climate and protection of natural resources and focus on sustainable efficiency. This is important when looking for security and sustainability in employment such as tourism, agriculture and food production and future development in fishing and fishing. We are also required to maintain it, a respectable president, as we discuss this strategy, how the economy is stable and put together, what we have accomplished so far in an effort to strengthen our economic resources. These include delinquency of capital scaffolding, detoxification, and the equalization of pension rights to a labour market. We've promoted the terms of government funds by legal laws on public finances and increasing national espionage. We've set up financial standards. We have introduced an army war force in a financial market and passed laws on the increased financial standards. We've earned money on pension bonds, emphasized debt subsidies, thus reduced interest load and achieved a stronger state's position. At the same time, however, the position of the foundation economy, households and businesses is stronger. One measure of it is the debt rate, the proportion of GDP, now to produce less than in the up - to - date in the economic crisis of more than tens of years ago. Thus, we have increased strength, a stronger position, and a more solid arrangement to cope with relaxation and to ensure continued growth here. Thus, we have transformed economic, national status, national interest savings, lower debt and lower interest burden, and are in a strong position to cope with the failure and slower economic growths with increasing and intelligent donations for theinvestment of investments. I concluded my first talk here, a respectable president, by promising a letter from nowhere. The budget for other committees on arrangements and cooperation ahead of us is our discussion of the matter - which will now be considered after this discussion. We will take a few weeks into this discussion, considering that according to what happened, the regular committees give some comments or indications. On May 10th, next. But now we have a lot of work to do, gather information and comments on the matter, and I expect to cooperate with the committee's committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u9	A respectable president. Then we are here at the end end end of the reign of a five-year financial programme, a financial plan that we knew all the grounds were smiling before it came out of print, even if only to an uncertainty show such as the mismanagement that Happen had not taken into account in its economic forecast. She's not going to publish it until May. True, it is difficult to understand because it was known that the hairy skin was already present. We got some bad news this morning. It must be a shock to us to face the fact that there's probably going to be 1,000-1,200 people out of work because WOW isn't working on the market anymore. We've been able to hear here in all of our advisers, have had the chance in the last two days to respond to them in order to participate in their litanys. We have seen the glory of the government, which in many respects shines through. You can't just be here with negative feelings about, really, government optimism, optimism about the state of the world. We have a very strong financial situation today, stronger than most of the time. We have paid off debt, and at the same time we have made more money to consume because we have dropped so much interest costs. But what would it be in this financial program for five years that really beat me down? Yes, it is clear, and there is no doubt that those who are remembered, those who are kept here in deep poverty, are still taxed. It is still shown that if the poorest people in the country are not taxed, the only thing that will be left on the side will be the national sink. Is it not a sad, respectable president who has to face the fact that we have to tax poverty? Or is it true that our money is priorized so that we will rather turn down bank taxes, spells on it, and those who can succeed, and then show that we are going to take it away from those who cannot afford it? We repeatedly show that the bent banks can always be turned more. Sometimes I think with myself, a respectable president, " What is the cause? ' Is it the reality of those who rule the land? Is it because they have never been in the situation of the poorest people in Iceland? We know that over 40,000 Icelanders have fewer than 300,000 dollars. paid for a month. How in the world can you imagine anyone who could live on and support himself properly on such a skinny thing? Of course, it does not imagine any human, but it seems that governments cannot imagine how difficult it is, how scary it is, and how miserable it is, to wake up the next day, to look at their children, and not to give them what is commonly considered normal in society, perhaps to have a genius in some area, a future musical genius, a future athlete, but not to finance it for their child to come up with a hobby or to associate with what is commonly accepted as a child. We have a children's contract, we have a human rights contract, and we have minimal forwards. What do we do with all this? At this high council, all of this is taken to the poorest people in the land, and it is trampled on. This is made clear in this five - year financial program, which, in fact, has nowhere to deal with correcting one or anything that attracts these poorest people. A report was published on February 28th. which the welfare watch had won. Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson introduced it. It shows that the situation of Icelandic children is generally considered to be economical in comparison with the international community. Great! So what about this record, which says is in poverty here? What about them? There are several ways that we can - and the highest - of which we can call for guidance. Secretary of finance asked me: Hv. Senator, what can you see? Is there anything we can do? How are we going to do that? How much is the package gonna cost? Of course, we begin by setting priorities where money is most needed. The nature of the matter must be the most reasonable, reasonable, and justest. One factor that seems to be to be off duty is a crown against a dollar's decrease. I don't know how many decades ago because it took just one minute to get her on. It also took one minute to take it off the senior citizens on January 1, 2017, but for some reason, the sufferers always seem to be a group out in the community, apparently to be punished because they are not acceptable enough. Why was a cent against a dollar's decrease, e.g. Is it not just a relief from them at the same time as old citizens? Why not? Yes, they were not ready to submit to something that they did not know, which they did not trust - because of their lack of faith in the desperateness of what is being done at the high Council when they were being included in the boundaries they have had to live and stay in these last few years. I say, most respectable president, it really doesn't matter. I've come here with solutions. They're talking about the power load. They're talking about the incidence of disability. The number of micropunchers is growing way too fast. As this increase grows, the Kingdom treasure increase will be overwhelming. It is said that in the years ahead, we will likely have to spend some 80 billion a year from a wealth of money. Why, then, not to do something about it but to scare off microorganisms? (b) What questions might we ask ourselves? (b) What questions might we ask ourselves? (b) What questions might we ask ourselves? Why not just put it in the hands of this group and say: "Please, you men who trust in you, go out to work, participate in the community, pay our taxes. We'll give you a lead-in period to show you what you're up to. You poor people are the most inclined to judge and to appreciate your worth in a job market and why you trust yourself. Why not create a real safety network that encourages them and motivates them? In microsurgents, it is our great lack of human resources, and it is here at the Great World Council to step outside the box, meet them, and draw out all the best we can, for according to the report I mentioned, that Dr. Kolbeinn Stefánsson introduced us on February 28, 2000. It turns out that the social group that has the most important thing in society is a single and desperate parent. The children of these social groups are the ones who count 103/4,15% of children living here in poverty. What can we do? It speaks of raising child - welfare. Does that save anyone from poverty? There's talk of lowering taxes on the lowest salary. No, meet the lowest wage to be paid. But it is also met with the highest ones, to the top of a crown, exactly the same amount. It doesn't matter whether the person has 10 million a month or 200 thousand a month, he gets exactly the same tax reduction. Is that justice? Is this a normal setting for financial gain? I say no. We've also talked about seniors. The report I am referring to shows that the situation of older citizens in Iceland is generally very strong. This does not change the fact, however, that within that host there is a certain group that is extremely difficult, isolated, anxious, even badly fed. It is our honored president, our generals and the government to join us, wherever we stand, and to acknowledge who we're working for. We're working for all Icelanders. We're working for the people who go to the booth in good faith that they're choosing rulers who will stand up for the entire nation rather than just a few chosen ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-28-86.u10	A respectable president. The end of this first siege is near. The financial agenda, which is certainly put ahead of any uncertainty in the economy, but the government is doing what is being proclaimed, based on public economic forecasts, and I don't think that this has been the case. to any other standard would be to use. We also publish variations in this program that can have their opinions on which I have heard in this discussion that it is too optimistic. But this is the only real foundation for making a plan for the next year. Then I have to say, it's disappointing to see the WOW airline business stop today. We'll have to take it into account. We need to evaluate the effects of it for income and expenses - and I expect to be able to cooperate effectively with the committee in this regard. What brings my attention to this discussion is how great the sky is between individual groups and the ocean. May I mention the viewpoint the Conspiracy is entering the debate based on the fact that the government has placed its national estate in a full - scale rush of economicism, a total straitjacket, and now it is the welfare issues it will address. What has the government changed since its arrival, if we consider making contributions to the welfare issues that the United States is most interested in? For example, from 2017 to the next year, the government has raised contributions to health care, according to the schedule we have here in front of us. Health contributions have gone up to 31.1 billion. It's the thrill of health care. This is a 14% increase in donations. For societal reasons, donations have grown since 2017, when chosen, about 29.3 billion, a 16% increase. This does not directly describe a society in a social straitjacket; on the contrary, we are in the middle of a parish. That pursuit is being continued in this program. It is also claimed that the state's income stocks were clearly weakened. I just have to say, this is some kind of ideologies I don't like, that every time we leave more room for people or companies, those who are working to keep the family on a fleet or take a risk with their own resources, every time we try to reduce the curse on these groups, it's named in the Conspiration systematically to weaken the government's income agencies. For us, it is a promise to provide oxygen to people, to help them with their relief, to help them reach their goals, to support their work in the country more fully so that they will have some value to meet all these needs for new expenses. There's obviously a lot of ideological differences there. I have to say, though, about the viewpoints expressed by the convention that there are quite another tone. We haven't put a nation in a straitjacket - we've spent too much of it. That's the problem with that category. We've put too many crowns on the outpost side. It's like the Conspiracy, and the trip just looks at its own government budget. But all right, ask yourself, " Have we kept things that way through the good news that we have spent too much of the benefits of debt and economic growth and when the economy begins to slow down? ' I'd like to mention some of the factors that indicate something else. First, we have in recent years, if we take the replacement team with us, running a government fund with hundreds of billions of rests. That is a key reason why we have managed to reduce debt and interest. But even if we look past the singles, the remainder will not only divide dozens but likely about 100 billion in recent years, even though we may overlook the monomers. Thus, we have run a government fund with leftovers year after year, building up resistance for a time of less economic growth. We now have a plan in our hands, which is based on the fact that next year there will be good rest, which follows the same path. It shows that if anything comes up, if it reduces the income, if, as humans are saying here, we have broken, we have exactly a table for a table. I also allow me to mention that, despite growing income, the mediocrity does not grow with economic growth; so we are not burdening the wealth of state. Then you might ask: Have we been running what the restoration calls a tax crisis of fiscal government Does the theory of debt indicate that? No. Does the country's interest level indicate that people look at this economy and say: "This is, of course, a financial failure? Does it indicate that in the interest of growth? No, government funds are receiving today the most favorable interest we have ever received. Does the government's credit ratings indicate that a person will take a look at these financial matters and say: "Here are men walking off the precipice? No, we have a better credit score than we used to. What about inflation? Is a government fund getting money out of its savings so that it just fuels inflation? No, inflation has been stable. And how has it been possible to improve the benefits of people whose work is all about this? In recent years, vanity has rarely increased. I have to say, I think it's a very small reason for these big, heavy words that we've spent the last crown. We haven't spent the last crown. We have turned the interest rate into a welfare business. That's what we've done. Now we're getting into a debt ratio - we're reaching around the 20% credit limit according to the debt rule, if we're paying for it. By the end of our last year, we went below 30% and predicted that we could plan toward 20% in this strategy period. It would create a right about 300 billion allowances for the government, state, and societies before the debt breakers, i.e. The debt endpoint, the 30% point. It shows how well we have lived for the future. If the government's budget needs to fall apart in the production of the land, we can turn the state upside down for a while and get out of it lightly - if not another major blow. I have to say with regard to the international tourism: Who doesn't believe in it here in this hall that for a long time the opportunities there are beyond question? Who will believe that with the fall of one airline, the faith and interest of tourists in coming to Iceland in the future will experience the natural and global conditions here? Who really believes that in his heart? Of course, all of us are shocked, but we must rise up and look only to the future, a longer time, and ask us what we can do today to make that opportunity a reality in the future. I think it's obvious, and I don't believe anything other than that there are people here to agree more than the discussion shows that the future, despite this shock, is amazingly bright. This has also given a viewpoint - as in our last talk from Floki's - that the problem is that we do not have more expenses, especially those mentioned among the hands. I'll always be just as amazed when there's little to it that we're going to turn down the spells on them and say that there's not enough. What's happening in this business is that we need to put more into this and more into it, that there is a lack of all serious debate on valuables in this country, what we can do to increase export costs, increase production in the country, including the public, that the public becomes more efficient, flexible, serviceal, that we do not have more people on the payroll than the project calls for, that we use the useful technologies to provide better service in a more efficient way, more efficient, more efficient way of making the country, getting more money in the country, make investments in more areas. This budget is the most powerful facet of innovation that has been seen and thus lays the groundwork for this most important aspect, production, and value development in the future. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your excellent discussion, and expect a good cooperation with the committee.
