ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows. Today's votes are expected to be about the 2nd and 3rd session after the discussion is concluded and a new meeting will be started, where these matters will be scheduled and then continued with the rest of the program for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u2	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 1117, on the cost of the Ministry and the subsidiary, the use of Microsoft software, from Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u3	Mr. President. More than five months ago, I asked for a written answer to the highest degree. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers on sales of source-priceed electricity. The request contained six questions in which I might even ask. to see if these national energy companies sell on the source of electrical responsibilities could possibly affect electrical prices in this country. The request was submitted on November 7, 2018, and the highest. A minister has not realized why it has not been answered. According to 6 mg. 57st. Parliamentary ministers usually have 15 effective days to answer but otherwise a minister should inform the president of the reason for the problem. Minister has not done so as to know. So I want it to be directed to the highest. The president has to follow the application procedure according to the Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u4	The President will investigate this case, including the highest level. Minister's wanted more than once. If not, it's more serious than a natural vision. You're right next door. Senator, this has become quite a delay in answering.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u5	Mr. President. I want to join my partner. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, I hate to have to wait for questions like this. I've only been hit on that kind of thing, and now, for example, I'm lying down. ... fora written request from me for a financial and economic minister for a prior start in the tax system that has been running out of control since then I think it's early this year. Not long ago, I had to ask my fifth question to the Fourth Minister about the best holding of the apartment loan that is now at the Minister of Justice, had been there for three weeks. I don't know that any of these ministers asked for time to answer the queries I've been asking about this and the one I waited long for, as I say, for a year. I direct the prayer to the president that he will take these matters more seriously because this is becoming a burden, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u6	The president would like to reiterate the emphasis on the council's request that the Ministry be asking for longer time if they fail to respond within the specified time, as well as the effort to see that there is no excessive delay in reply to inquiries, but there may be reasons, as I know. A senator is well aware of his great struggle to learn the full potential of an apartment loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u7	A respectable president. Today, there are about 1,000 people on the waiting list for a replacement surgery. Of course, these figures say little about how many people really wait to find out, and some simply give up on the wait and others pay from their own pockets. We know about Ragna. She was offered an immediate operation on an independent Chinese society in this town where she would have had to pay 1,200,000 dollars. From your own pocket. There is no agreement on health insurance, nor is there any procedure that has long held by a waiting list, so Ragna went to a private hospital in Sweden where the operation cost the State 2 million. K. Ragna one's lucky. She's a mother of two, and she's finally allowed to run around with her kids. She's well enough to endure a trip to Sweden. But if the arrangement is thought of for the individuals who may be remembered, and I would have thought that those most needed should be thought of, then it doesn't do too much for that group, i.e. seniors or individuals with other or underlying diseases. They are simply not authorized to take such a journey or to rely on it. They're just told to wait at home, to stay calm, and to melt. I'd like to point out those who are here at the council and think they're the guardians of the taxpayers, that any operation in foreign lands on private cocaine that can't be talked to at home costs well over 2 billion. K. To protect all fairness, the state gets a thousand calls back. Actions here at home cost 1,200, as I could before. Well, a government fund gets back up to half a million dollars in the form of tax pay and credit. Again, the system says, "Just wait and melt. " We have your social security number. Everyone can see that this isn't going to work. During the resurgence, along with other members of the council, a prime bill in the beginning of November asked to handle the matter accurately, but the Council of Congress says, "This case is not on the agenda. " There's more political messages in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u8	President. During the last few days, however, the energy of senators and society has become involved in reasoning facts. Although the role of the Generals is to discuss matters in the background, I find it kind of hard to see members of the council using the time to create misleading, even dangerous speech when the council does not seem to take time to discuss two basic rights. We should not have missed these matters, for they have been repeatedly brought to the World Hall. First of all, I'm going to name a subject for international protection. Their pleas could be as clear as the government has decided to ignore them. People's rights are being violated. So let me give you a few examples of those who live on Ásbek do not enjoy freedom of privacy or freedom of movement. The police have abused their authority on peaceful protests, and hopefully they have not overlooked any of the overforwards that the police have used as Protestants. In addition, it has been pointed out to the oscillating administrations established by the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs and those applying for international protection. And what do we hear from the Council? Nothing. The silence is so ignominious. Human rights are international, and the United States has to respect everyone's human rights regardless of whether they have any Icelandic landmarks or not. Second, the house has been a regular youth strike for climate. Young people around the world have expressed serious concern about the climate. We are now called for immediate action. And it's time we can't let this worry go away. They are absolutely right, and all of them should be aware of the serious situation that exists today that has led to young people not to see the possibility of a secure life, either in Iceland or anywhere else. While some members of the council here present facts in a talk chair and others use their time to refute the errors, the rights of the most vulnerable individuals and the environment are violated. [[The president calls.]] When will we talk about it and bring real solutions? We're running out of time, and we're gonna get all of this back if we don't take action right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u9	President. Yesterday I, along with other members of Pirata and members of the United States, put in motion the bill for setting up a legal committee. The Commission would have the responsibility to determine whether the legal bill before the council is compatible with the Constitution and the national commitments of Iceland. The objective of the bill is to promote further quality of legislation, to ensure that the bill meets the Constitutions and meets Iceland's international commitments. As a result, careful treatment of a law source project can be promoted at the General Assembly. The bill is based on the proposal of a legislation on law in the bill to a new constitution submitted at the Council of 2012. Unfortunately, the fact is that at the Council has often been passed laws that do not pass the constitution, international commitments of Iceland, and even the rights of certain groups. It is not until many years later that the Supreme Court pronounces the final outcome that confirms the violation of the Lawgiver. It is our duty to work here to ensure professional and good legislation, which does not violate the constitution or rights of individual groups. If a professional is to be formed, which can make the council feel like that, this may prevent the council from repeating their past mistakes and establishing laws that do not pass the constitution. If we are truly interested in protecting the European Union's human rights guaranteed in constitutions and international human rights agreements, we must unite in ensuring the conduct of the case at Congress. I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to call the church's attention to youth law, but they've not been revised from their approval in 2007. Similarly, Iceland is one of the few countries who have not set their own policies on the affairs of young people, with the exception of Youth Council policies from 2014 to 2018. Thus, Iceland is aimless when it comes to young people's affairs. The first objective in the policy of Youth Council in Youth Services is as follows, with the permission of a president: (b) How can youths be helped to become Jehovah's Witnesses? ▪ The exchange of youth people is nationally compatible, contributing to the cooperation of all members of the youth - oriented community. It also states, by permission of the president: ▪ It is important that the environment and the organization of young people be in constant development, taking into account the needs of the day. Hence, adjustments must be made in the organization of young people. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. proposed to revise youth protection laws but, in fact, a professional called upon to reform the legal environment when the policy process began in 2012. A respectable president. The current government has a significant growth in youth in the terms of the term, including increased financial support for the free groups working in behalf of young people. Yet, social activities in young people still have an unstable foundation. Therefore, it is long time to revise the law, especially in view of the fact that both children and young people are now concerned with two advisers, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Today or tomorrow my inquiry will be made to the Ministry of Education and Culture, on whether or not to review the law before further policies will be undertaken, distributed. I hope that policy will be complete, uniform, meet different needs of young people, and be actively involved with young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u11	A respectable president. Yesterday, the D.A. issued its decision on an equal rights committee and published its official Web site. The decision says, by permission of the President: ▪ One woman, a dear one, felt that the law of No was against the charges. 10/2008 of the equal status of women and men at the appointment of a man in the state of national parks on the Capitol. According to the Commission, the probability of this has been linked in an understanding of 4 mg. Twenty-six. track No. 10/2008 that the accuser had been discriminated on grounds of gender, so the obligation would be laid upon the charge to show that reasons other than sex would have been the basis for his decision. A comparison of objective factors proposed in the advertisement of the job indicated that the person had been as qualified as the man. Under these circumstances, there was a need to be especially careful when assessing mental factors that were to be proposed according to an advertisement of the job charges. On the other hand, in view of the charge of the judicial committee, it was not sufficiently charged. The case concluded that the charges could not have been made to show that reasons other than sex were the basis for counseling in the National Parking Work, cr. 4 and 5 mg. Twenty-six. track No. 10/2008. So they claimed to have violated Article 1. Twenty-six. track No. 10/2008.How can I help you? A respectable president. It's a huge offense, not just to the Constitution committee as such, not just to the chairman of the Committee, but to the entire body of Congress. What are we going to do, a respectable president, in order that these things are not repeatedly revealed? It seems that we are easily and carelessly covering issues like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u12	A respectable president. The European Court's judgment on the order of the European Court of Human Rights took a considerable note of the activities of this important court when it fell. The fall of the sentence fell to an entire week, followed by four judges reporting further progress. It is important that this problem be taken firmly, but once again the government seems to have had no plan in these matters. It was as if she had not expected that this could become the case, which was just another possibility of two. There is still no objection to the restoration of the court to its full effect. Yesterday it was announced that this case should be appealed to the court of Human Rights. It follows that it will take some time to get a final result in this matter. As a result, the decision to follow did not follow any plans for bringing this important court to full effect. In fact, it was the highest. Ministers in charge that there were no plans for temporarily increasing the number of judges to do so. It is true to remind you of the concern expressed by the head of the Court in the press a few days ago, that the performance of the court was severely impaired, and that it would be a problem that could come up very quickly. So it is very important to be taken firmly. It is very serious if there is a significant delay in judicial hearings for this matter. It is very serious if the decision of the Court of Human Rights is further damaged in our legal system than necessary. The government has to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u13	Mr. President. Older citizens are not a uniform group. There are different incomes, social conditions, education, health, different interests, and interests to work ahead of 70 years. It is, as you know, slowly in the private sector. That's where it comes from, but it could be higher. The official sector - 70, then you're out. I'm going to read from a good teacher's e-mail, Sigurður R. Guðjónsson. He says, with President's permission: ▪ I turn to you with confidence that you will repeat a case recently discussed at the General Assembly to increase government ages so that the state's ideal employee is not forced to quit when his 60's is reached. Come on, he says, with President's permission: I am a teacher, and I do nothing more interesting than meet students and try to get them to any maturity. Then I think I'm dating newer employees at school and I'm trying to use technology so I don't think my colleagues and students would say that I was burned out and made up of the same print. Mr. President. I generally agree with the teacher's words and urge that once again the sewing of this matter will be done and that older citizens in public service will be able to engage in more than 70 years of employment with their precious knowledge and experience. In many articles, in education, in health, and elsewhere, many employees are fully involved and could work for so many years, but they do not have permission to do so. Of course, this requires adjustments, but in many areas there is a need for good workers to be able to do so. I believe, Mr. President, this time it is due to apply. So much has changed among the older citizens today, and it can be replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u14	V.E.G. President. I'd like to take up a discussion about the 86th Environment and Transport Committee, which is a national contract for the future of Reykjavík airport. The occasion is good, the mayor of Reykjavík has been working on it in the past few years, and it is clear to press on to the field. The powers have been placed under strict conditions. The runway is closed, and you have a feeling, in accordance with planning, that it should be placed on track by cat. It is not divided that the organizational authority that it is, indeed, in the countryside, is different from that of many other rural communities, but the city of Reykjavík is different. This is the capital of Iceland, and the capital of the country is its nature, according to its functions other than other independent societies. There would be no comment on the fact that Reykjavík was in charge of his affairs to form in the Ballet Park or that Kópavogstown was in charge of Rustótun. When it comes to transport activities that concern all the people of the country, the situation is simply different. There is a wide range of functions at Reykjavík, airports. To form the domestic flight, its heart, its teaching flight, some of which are, a visual display flight, aeroplane, aeroplane to work, a medical flight, Iceland's Marine Department. Our high - tech hospital is in Reykjavík, the management board in Reykjavík, and Reykjavík is an important reserve airport for international flight. The state of the field and the track is unacceptable today. Aircrows need to expand, and there could be a densely populated area, i.e. ... already onthefield. I strongly encourage the General to accept this matter when it enters the council with a decree to make it perfunctory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u15	Mr. President. This week the convention published its new annual report. Strategies are the grass - based organizations that fight sexual abuse and provide assistance to people who have been subjected to such violence. There is good reason to express appreciation for all of this great work for the world's far more than three decades. The annual report summarises a wide range of dramatic sexual abuses and clearly shows the prevalence and severity of such violence. The figures show us that the Council and the Government must do even more, and there is still much more to do to stop these crimes and help those who suffer the violence as well as those who use it. The report shows that of the 359 violent individuals, 311 women, 47 men, and one of the other sexes. Men were therefore nearly 96% violent, while women were about 4%. The most common use of violence is domestic. The home of the violent person is the most common one, and the second most common is the common home of victims and bacteria. For the first time in the previous year, over 70% of the people who went to the Hormours were under 18 years of age at the time of violence. For violent age, it is observed that about 17% of violent people are 17 years of age or younger and are children. Just what is involved in reaching out to young people and discussing healthy relationships, unhealthy relationships, and violent relationships. Its goal is to teach young ones about boundaries and agreements, with the result of preventing sexual abuse. The campaign's motto this year is: "I respect my boundaries and yours. [[The president calls.]] Once again, I would bring the Rivers thanks for the priceless work and struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u16	A respectable president. I know that there is not much manners at the High General Assembly that the so - called government opposers and those sitting in the smaller parts of the day are kissing a great government or counsellors. I'm gonna break the tip of my show, and I'm gonna do it now. I'd like to commend the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur the Einar Daðason, for his well-work and his contribution to the job since he began. This pleases me very much, but I was a member of a council during the 2013st year,2016, and I was then one of the chairs of the children at the General Assembly and made such matters of great concern to me. I feel that he has dealt with these matters with a sense of urgency, and it is a pleasure to see what he has been doing. You can read the page of the Department of Social Affairs on those jobs and what he has been doing. To say that, I want to encourage the highest. A minister to force and speed up a proposal for Congress resolution on the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people submitted on September 14 led by a dog. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur, the son of Ágústsson. The sooner that deal is legalized, the better. This is one of mankind's most important contracts. Just as I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to use himself in the affairs of single fathers. As for me, I would like to quote an article by Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who sat here at a council for a number of groups, which appeared in the newspaper of News this week. It says in the conclusion of this article, with permission of the president: ▪ The books of the system do not really contain single fathers. The children are not registered in their home. So they are singles. The system says they don't have children. So they are not supportive. This group includes the poorest people in the country. Few have the same shit as the plague of income, moneyless fathers, who want to do everything they can to be a part of their children's training. On the contrary, they get no support. They have to pay. No matter what happens to the labor leaders in the armed forces against poverty, and government will raise parental support, this group - fathers - will be buried and forgotten. The view is obvious and remarkably cold: They can eat what is out of the water. [[The president calls.]] The children suffer most from this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u17	Mr. President. Last night's Caslight made this statement: It's because of something that the carrier capacity of the proposed Northeast line that lays on, is greater than we need, but could fit for sea cable repairs. Last night's discussion, when we discussed the third energy package and the case related to it, when we discussed government policy at midnight last night on the construction of electricity transport systems and changes to the Senate resolutions we agreed on in June last year, similar comments were made in connection with this, i.e. That the purpose of the Cruces Line 3 in the northeastern country was to link it to a sea cable that is discussed. That would be the point of laying the Devil's line 3. I can admit that I was quite angry with the comment about the state of electricity in Northern countries and about the lack of electricity and electrical security for about 10 to 15 years. I called in for the comments that fell yesterday, whether there might be more discussion in the council on these matters, the electrical issue. I remember the discussion. In June, when we discussed these matters quite extensively, we agreed on a proposal toward the electrical transport system, that it was primarily part of the national council that participated in it. How important it is when we discuss as much serious things as we are here for this discussion, which is electronic, based on the circle and transport capacity, that the discussion is based on facts. The discussion that was here last night, and last night at Cast Light, it's just a hell of a panic over these matters. [[The president calls.]] I really don't like it when you're having this discussion at last when you're about to start at the Cruces Line 3 in the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u18	V.E.G. President. I was going to move on to three things, but now I'm going to do what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson gave me his first talk so I can just skip it. I was going to write about this good letter from a teacher who suggested that the official age be increased, so that the state's full - time employees are not forced to stop working at the end of their 60's. So I'm going to point out that the Central Party bill is now on the committee and hopefully get positive financial support at the council. I am absolutely certain that this will be so, especially since the superintendent stepped up ahead of me to discuss the matter. Another subject that I wanted to introduce to a Senate is an interesting method, a new divorce law in Denmark, in which parents are obliged to take a course before divorce. Thus, some 15,000 couples in Denmark divorce each year, and the main issue is the children. They are most understood by divorce, and in the new law in Denmark, children's needs and rights are put in first place. It is some kind of light gift. First, the parents take counselling and get yellow lights if they only need advice. If they need further help with the treatment of their children, there is family care. I think it's worth considering Dana's approach. We Icelanders and I have, as we all know, adopted various European legislation from Denmark. The third thing about which I have little time to talk about is the end of wetlands. I heard from the surgeon general that farmers had come ashore, sometimes without permission. In the case of more than two acres [2 ha] of land, localisations need to be allowed to do so, and a land - healing director says that these are a failure for his rural communities. Therefore, I would like to encourage research to see how important the development of the country is to the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u19	Mr. President. With Icelanders, our custody over the environmental management of the environment was lost to the Brussels government, so it is now mandatory that all activities being undertaken in environmental assessment are under obligation. We lost our authority over consumers, and as a result, special consumer protection has been imposed on the population. We can't even control it anymore, Mr. President, what kind of work law is it? And thus we can list all sorts of rights that the EU has given to the public. This is not necessarily because we Icelanders are unable to see our plans or to give up our sovereignty permanently or to tell us about our country in other countries, not at all, other things. The European Union, on the other hand, is the setting for sovereign countries where the rules of free market are created and that rights are respected and that no share can be done in the power of wealth and solid position. There are now issues about nature protection and consumer protection in Europe's energy sectors, which are attributed to a third energy package. And it's like the man said. People focus on an imaginary hall of sovereignty, but they see nothing of the legal rights that may be involved. We need to talk here at the General for a complete and complete discussion of how we're going to use and possess our resources. We need to secure the nation's authority over their resources so they don't get caught up in hand. The danger we Icelanders face is not because of outside threats. It's our own greed, our own immediate economic blindness. It is long time, Mr. President, for us to secure in the constitution that the nation's resources are always and permanently owned. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u20	A respectable president. Four issues related to the third energy pack have been discussed in the last few days. The discussion revealed much information on these issues but also on national energy and resource resources. Clearly, this discussion has raised in more than my thoughts to recite here today. Clearly, criticism of the matter has been taken seriously by the government and cooperated with it. It is therefore proposed that Iceland will not be connected with the internal energy market of the European Economic Area except with the approval of the Council and with the exception of a special opinion on whether the rules of the Constitution are met. Until that happens - if it ever happens - that the cables will be laid, the rules have no value and no meaning in this country. Now, at the end of the discussion, an important work is being done for the next few weeks to determine whether the presentation, the way in which it is presented, the one presented before the Council, is the best way, or whether other routes are really possible, and if so, if they are better or worse than the available solution. During the discussion, it was also well exposed to the American many politicians to refer to the EEA as to all the policies and legislation on energy and resource resources in Iceland. Maybe we should look closer and take up a discussion about the resources and electricity, regardless of this deal. We can do so much better in policy development and the shape of the environment's natural resources in this country. We need to ensure the possession of national resources on land, whether these resources are used for electricity production or other resources. We need to ensure a safe delivery of electricity across the country. We need to balance national electricity costs, and more would come up if we discussed these resources more and more. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u21	Mr. President. Whatever the opinion that men may have on the issue that has been discussed during the past few days, I think that all of us must share the vision that our resources of Iceland should be owned by the Icelanders, owned by the common people and established by the common people and ruled by them. I'm gonna share a lot of anxiety with you. People's members and the People's Party are concerned that this may come to some other place, that we may lose this custody. I think if we look over our major resources, e.g. The fishing grounds are the best reason to worry there. We hear influential people in the community, candidates, not speaking of those who make use of them, saying that there is no such thing as national property, and that the fish in the sea themselves have no name. As more than 80% of the electricity produced in this country is being developed by a very small number of powerful foreign rings, I am concerned about what has been discussed here. We need to be careful whether this is really in our custody. Let's be concerned that one of the three largest energy companies in the country, theatre of Southnes, has become private property, and I think we must ask ourselves, " Is the public company, the State, or the rural communities don't need to reimburse them? ' It may be of value to me national use, which is not a popular word of all. I think the conclusion is that it's a matter of utmost necessity and that we immediately introduce into the Constitution a law that the resources of the country are the permanent property of the nation and the public. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u22	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, coastal fishing. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of guests I will not list here. The bill was submitted by a work committee and aims to promote the changes temporarily made on the coastal fishing programme at the time. Section 6. the management of fishing during the 2018 coastal fishing season. The bill suggests that the switch between regional markets will be dropped, and the Fishing Office is authorized to stop coastal fishing takes the overall power of coastal fishing boats beyond the quantity required for fishing. They recommend that every ship be allowed to hunt for 12 days within each month of the coastal fishing season, i.e. May, June, July and August. Coastal fishing ships are also proposed to be authorized to allow countries to care for in accordance with the Minister's decision by the Regulation as a so-called VS Level, which is neither a maximum of the maximum resources of each hunt nor a maximum of the total resources. He shall be kept apart from the other labors of the ship. It shall be weighed, and written separately, and sold at the approved market, and its value shall flow to the seaside plant. The main changes from what was done for the 2018 coast fishing season are that, instead of Minister of Fish, it is granted to stop fishing, to cover the total power over the authorized volume, and that the maximum intensity should be determined by Regulation. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the safety of small boats by ensuring a number of days for fishing each month, thus preventing seamen from rowing out in bad weathers to compete in the pursuit of authorized fish before fishing is shut down. The Commission has concluded that this modified framework will lead to security, equality and development of the entire coastal fishing system, with increased resources and flexibility in the choice of hunting days with a safety objective. The Committee has concluded that the choice of fixed days may lead to a better source of raw materials spreading evenly over the course of the month, increasing the production of fresh materials during the summer, increasing the spread of stocks, and may also be involved in increasing structurality and innovation in the article. The Committee established a general sense of pleasure with the changes made in the management of coastal fishing during 2018. While there is still concern about regional division. It turned out to be a well reported warrant for last year, and it was expressed with pleasure that this warrant would be increased. In view of the experience gained by the fishing system last year, a little boat owner's relationship deemed the cell to bring coastal fishing to the small boat owners'demand for greater freedom to carry hand fishing. Iceland's National Guard believes that the experience of the last summer, where allowed 12 days in each month, was good and that hunting days were chosen for the weather and seawater, instead of competing for the assigned quotas in each area, as was the previous years. The fact that small boats are less on the sea in a broil directly and indirectly contributes to improving the safety of seafarers. By binding these regulations on the law, safety is assured even more, Iceland's National Guard considers it to be safe. The committee was advised to add a provision for reporting coastal fishing and for general fishing licenses during the coastal season. The committee agrees that such a warrant is correct. Although it is true that such a warrant does not take effect until the month after request of a beach fishing permit, i.e. if a request is made in June, a fishing vessel will not be permitted to start commercial fishing on other grounds until July, for example. A fishing vessel wishing to have their beach fishing license removed cannot be restored to sea fishing during the same beach fishing season. For the Committee, it was referred to as terms of Article 1. The bill would be unnecessary, since the ufs were no longer considered as a reference in total. At the very least, it would have to be made clear that in the case the total impact of hunting would be less than 650 cod readings, there would be no falling below VS levels. At the same time, there was a view to the Committee that the value of the ufs should be addressed solely. The committee believes that according to the bill it is clear that there is a maximum force. For countries to care for which VS forces should keep it separate from other sources, he must be weighed separately and recorded. If not, it can be counted to maximum levels, i.e. up to a value of 650 codfish according to the above guidelines. The committee points out that this warrant was available during the Pacific Fishing period in 2018 and will continue to exist. For the Committee, a fishing agency was authorized to stop fishing before the end of a beach fishing season. It was noted that by adding the law, Coastal fishermen would be guaranteed 48 days over the period. It was also found that deforestation of regionalisation led to competition with the country, rather than to be limited to certain areas. The change would be best for sailors in a certain area and could lead to a greater growth in that area. It would be better to extend the coastal fishing period so that sailors could direct fishing for themselves in the area. Thus, power would spread better in a fish market and bring in a better price. The Commission points out that there is a planned increase in markets between the 2018 coastal fishing period, with a peak of up to 11,000 tons and a maximum concentration of 1,000 tons. The Agency has concluded that there is a significant reduction in the likelihood that fishing needs to be stopped, as total resources for coastal fishing have been increased. In the opinion of the Committee, there is a chance that the additional documents will ensure that in all areas it can be fished for 12 days every month. The committee states that the minister is authorized at the station. 5. mg, sr. 3 mg Section 8. in order to improve the overall catch of fish for 12 days to be used for coastal fishing each year in May, June, July, and August. The committee suggests a change of bill. It is suggested that a new paragraph be added to Article 6. a The laws allowing fishing vessels authorized for coastal fishing and requesting that beach fishing be canceled and started commercial fishing if permitted. This warrant will take effect within the month after granting permission, i.e. the beach fishing permit, e.g. In June, a fishing vessel will be authorized to start commercial fishing according to another license in July. However, fishing vessels using this source cannot be restored to sea fishing in the same coastal season. The 1st matter has been proposed to the 4th mg. Section 6. The law, in accordance with the above. This suggests that much of what has been said about the subject is in harmony with many viewpoints. In the past few years, tables can be considered as to how coastal fishing has developed, both between zones and periods, and the usefulness rate permissible days. In view of what the trend has been in coastal fishing, this can be considered. The Committee held the opinion that the planned change would be better made temporarily and not permanently established until the analysis of the procedure was performed. The Commission noted that experience from the coastal fishing season in 2018 has shown that a change in arrangements has resulted in a greater calmness over calmness and fishing growth. The objective of the changes has been reached, so it is reasonable to establish the arrangement. The Commission further feels that success in summer will result in continued increase in safety, equality, and development of the entire coastal fishing system with increased resources and flexibility in the selection of hunting days with a safety objective. The committee held the view that all coastal fishing was necessary and that it would not be exported directly, since it would counteract the growth of value and value. The whole country had become one market throughout the fishing market, and it was important that everyone have access to the fish in the market. The Commission believes that the need to consider whether to ensure that marine fishing resources should always be offered first to domestic buyers and that the raw materials will not be exported to foreign containers. A product from coastal fishing is very important to a fish market when a recession is made in a catch from another fishing industry. More often than not, the product has been the spine in the process of making many fish equipment for the summer, and it has been a quality product. It has been noted that some external situations can affect the basis for coastal fishing. These are conditions such as recession in total resources, contracting of employment markets, weather, fishing prices, and fishing. The Commission stresses that the Ministry of Business and Development and the Work Board continue to monitor the development of coastal fishing in view of the objectives of coastal fishing, the development of smaller settlements, increased safety of small boats and innovation, and in view of opinions of national and regional equalities. The Commission points out that there is an agreement that at the end of the 2019 Coastal Fishing period, the Agency will make a detailed assessment of the experiences of the last two coastal fishing periods. The report needs to highlight cohesion, security, the results of different parts of the country, the flexibility of the system, and fishing in the fishing zones over the period. The results of this work programme will be used to further reform the coastal fishing system in collaboration with coastal fishermen in the four areas and their stakeholders for the coastal fishing period 2020 and have been requested to have no further assessment since February 1, 2020. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ▪ At 1st Gr. a. After the "B" team come up a new letter, as follows: to the 1st saying. 4 mg. add: unless beach fishing license has been canceled at 5 mg. b. After the c- space, there will be a new letter, as follows: After 4 mg. comes a new paragraph, as follows: No matter the 4th mg. It is a fishing vessel that has been granted permission to request that the permit be canceled and fish for commercial purposes as per other licenses. However, such deletion does not take effect until the month after request of a decomposition. If a fishing vessel's beach fishing license has been canceled, it cannot be restored to shore fishing during the planned coastal fishing period. Under this view, the following article, the one here, Njáll Trausti Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the case, Ásmundur Frildur Friðriksson, Ísleifsson Proppé, Áfurfur Murððursson, Elísa Þórðardóttir Thordurdótir, and Sigurður Jónsson, wrote in advance. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer on the pro board, agrees with this opinion, in advance. I believe this case has been won for a long time. This is a matter that the masses have a direct and indirect interest, and when a review of such a system within the fishing system begins, many and different views are naturally introduced, as they were here. But this is how the matter has been handled, from a different political point of view, the article itself. I believe it is very important that we now take the step to the full and validate the bill available here to establish the 12-day system, i.e. that it is permitted to calm 12 days within each month and on the same days as has been, to be selected these days within the week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Everything else that has been discussed will be examined after the assessment of coastal fishing after the two summers of the changed system, the system. We'll take a look at it with a view to improving and strengthening the system, which I believe is very important within the large fishing system on the rights to industry and innovation, and to strengthen these small settlements wide and wide across the country. It is also part of our culture and history, and it is important that natural income can be obtained, that coastal fishing can be promoted and supported by the development of the second part of the year. That's why I think it's important that men, just as they can today, begin later, be on a gray patch first, and later start beach fishing. If someone is suitable for starting and stopping sooner, there is a chance at the other end of the game to stop and go to another hunt. Many of these small boats have a chance to do so, have some greeting, and then can use the second part of July or August to pursue them. They are not bound by a four - month beach fishing program. All of this, I consider myself to be flexible, all of which do nothing but strengthen and strengthen the system set up in 2009 and was also thought to meet the judgment of the United Nations Court of Human Rights for Job's Rights. This article could be accessed without having to buy a source, as the reality of the system is over. Last year, it was only brilliant. Much more has been satisfied with this far and wide throughout the country, although not everyone is always happy, as is normal. But last year there was no need to stop hunting. We were authorized to hunt the maximum power of regulations. Maximum power in the system was 10,200 tons. Some 9,700 tons of evasion went out, some 9,300 tons were cod. Last year, the non-maximal catch of 700 tons per day, which was divided between 80% and 20%, respectively, of the VS. It will continue in this way unless we increase the source and submit to a directive allowing for a date outside the maximum supply of 1,000 tons. It'll be up. Last year's regulations of 10,200 tons of total maximum resources in the coastal pool are now 11,000 tons. Clearly, it is not necessary to fear that the days will not meet all areas of the earth every month, that is more than certain, that they will succeed. Then we know that a minister is authorized by regulations to make up for what has been done. In 2017 the world's peak improved. the local minister, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, in 500 tons in August 2017 by Regulation. It is usually a force not to walk out and otherwise burn inside. Coastal fishing is the only system within this part, 5.3% of the social part of the system, which, for example, can be used to produce unrepeated sources. in a cross-check. Now I understand that there are quite a lot of fishing clearances in line harmony that can't be useful, so there's a reserve in these materials if necessary. But I hope that as many people go on a beach fishing. They've been shrinking a lot over the past few years. Just in recent years, the number of boats on coastal fishing has steadily decreased by 40, 50 boats each year. That's not a good development. By putting these days on, you can have a better chance of achieving a full dose and cooling off in the good weather to obtain good raw materials, to strengthen the system. It is very good for both fish farming and fish markets to spread over the month as well as for the price of fishing. But I trust that there'll be a good agreement against politics in this case and that we can handle this at the council today and make it legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. The head of the Professional Road Committee, Lilja Electric Rafney of Magnúsdóttir, for the committee and her talk on these many subjects, to have this system in Iceland. We're gonna go for a second. A senator in common is eager to be a man of great interest in the town of strength, and he wants to see our country grow and thrive, and he wants to do everything in our power to do so. I wondered about the beach fishing: Have they yielded the desired results of increasing employment and employment in those areas? So I gave it a lot of thought. And if this system is really practical. I've been around a lot of places. Like what? A senator rightly stated that there are differences in opinions about the system earlier. Not everyone is pleased with how it is directed and how it has been. This has, for example, been observed. not increasing recruitment as may have been planned at the beginning. Isn't it just a waste to have this system? It takes way too much to get going on this one. And then you said "whipped." A senator in his speech said that boats were shrinking. Is it not because this is inseparable? Besides that out in the country, like the East, and the West and elsewhere, there's nothing being won't be done to catch fish. He's all driven away. It seems that the only men who get a job around this one are the elevatorrs who receive the fish at the pier when the twits come in, many of whom have their hunting as Hobbi, men who do something else. It's just the same with the settlement, too. It could be a question mark. They get the fish on the pier, they put it in the car, then drive it south to win it. I wondered, would it not be easier to take these 10,000-11,000 tons and to offer them and to use them to build up and to strengthen buildings and to increase the development of employment in other ways in the settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u24	Mr. President. I like it. A senator has given up hope for smaller seas and coastal fishing. I'm more optimistic than that. I think I have a sense of that, and I've had a good relationship with people in the United States, with little boat owners, and I've heard in the crowd all who are interested in this article far and wide across the country. It has been important to have a strong beach hunt. Of course, there are many boats that may only be on beach fishing and that do not make a lot of money. Still, it is making income in many smaller places that would otherwise not be possible to produce income and that would be more likely to move. We must not speak down something that may not be large. We know of many places, far and wide, that more than 30 years ago, each port was more severe. Small places don't have a chance of forming big and big structures. That's where I support the individual enterprise, that men have this possibility of making it, without going into big investments. Hv. A senator spoke of a lack of recent intervention. No assessment or study has been performed that it has not recently been performed. I know a lot of young men on the Westfjords who have gone on beach fishing, so I don't think that's true. But certainly, a building agency will make a good assessment of it, so we will see what the reality is. I believe that coastal fishing alone is a good addition to existing things. There are also many older men, who might otherwise be even a burden on the health system, who are just well beyond 80 years of age because of these coastal fishing. [[The president calls.]] I know a couple of guys like that, e.g. In Bolungarvík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Yeah, I understand it very well. I understand this view very well, wanting to build up the settlements. It may well be that this is an open life all over the country, but I wonder if it's practical, if it wasn't much closer to offering up this catch and then distributing it on ports and in these settlements, where the people of the settlements will just choose for themselves what it's going to do with them. It may well be that they want to be arranged so that they want to build fish or plants, and they are men who work secularly all year long, but they sometimes have to stop fishing early in the year because they don't have goodbyes. If so, they might have those greetings and could win and give it to them. It's just a question. I understand very well the attitude of a man. A senator, especially coming from the West, where there's been a lot of contracts, labor warrants, and so forth, that this is good. But I'm thinking about this practicality. Whether we are going to run a project like this today, because huge developments are in the sea, and technology is quite different, that somehow we have to try to get as much money as possible from the seaside resources and then distribute it to the owner, the nation. Farmers in the country suffer because they do not have enough employment. That's the key, that's perfectly clear. We built everything on agriculture and fishing roads, and this is just getting pulled together, especially the fishing grounds. We have to find ways to create more employment. I believe the money that would get from this resource into the communities that have a lot of painful ties, it's absolutely clear, that they could build more varied jobs if they had the ability and ability to do so. Be in fish, I don't say, but that's my opinion. But I will do according to all that the land is good; and the land shall be a good habitation, and every place shall be a good place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u26	Mr. President. I think we agree that we want the best of our country and we can live in as many places as possible around the country, far and wide, around the country. I'm in the middle of increasing the diversity of the marine environment, but I don't think we're going to do that at the expense of what's been building up in coastal fishing. It's the only way to get into the fishing system without having a lot of money in investments to buy resources and expensive boats. You can start there small. That's what the University of Akureyri investigated. At the beginning there was a large increase, but since 2009 there has been an average of about 103/45% recent in this article, so it is present. But I believe that auctioning, to go out and offer, let's say the 11,000 tons in the exchange, is not to strengthen the coastal areas of the country, that men start to fight over it. Each year, a wide variety can occur each year according to structure. I don't think the market route to the least is the right way to settle the game. I believe the beach fishing pays for the price of hunting just like everyone else. Coastal fishing has been bringing in a very good source of raw materials. They have been distributing the catch season during the summer, when many of those who have already caught, these big ones, have taken their goodbyes, and even place their boats and have great resources. We must not forget that in the last few years, labor markets have been tightening. Let's give it freedom. Let's get a beach hunt instead. I'd like to see in the future that beach fishing is a free hook hunt. [[The president calls.]] But we're in political reality, and I think we've come to a good solid solidarity about the situation as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u27	President. We'll discuss again the bill to correct the changing of fish rule laws, No. 116/2006, or the part of the law facing coastal fishing. This is where changes were made to the coastal fishing system last year. As we have seen, the biggest change now lies in each boat being able to hunt for 12 days each month as long as the balance of total resources is not reached under the regulations set by the Minister for Coastal Fishing in 2018. When these changes were made last year, they were highly pressured to be said in a mild way, but fortunately, the experience of the last summer was better than fear and supports e.g. The national relationship between the little boat owners is complete. Unfortunately, the report of the past summer's experiences, as requested, did not work out, something I consider to be a major problem of the case, and so it is on the committee's opinion in advance. Actually, I would have preferred that the change now be temporary again, as suggested. The report of the European Union's member states, and it would not be established until the results of the analysis were in place. However, the Agency has now made sure that the experiences of the last summer and this summer will be evaluated. There will be a reinstitution on the job committee in the next winter, and experience will be evaluated according to these findings. I believe I have the conviction that this will be and will follow it myself on the committee for the next autumn or the next winter. I have also made comments in the case of such an individual and have followed those comments, i.e. how late the committee came and that further aspects of the matter had been desirable, particularly in the case of regional equality, which occurs. According to Fonts, a member of the small boat owners of the Northeast, they believe that the change, to have the system in one pot, but still a zone, their territory, area C, is going to be very bad. Thus, it is feared that areas A, where fishing is good at this time, especially during the previous part of the period, could possibly finish the pot before the rest of the areas finish their days. It also points out that Fontur had to be examined with greater flexibility in the system, so that in May, little fish do not need to be caught in areas where the fish is much better fished in late summer. It's something I think it's important to look at when the next winter's case is reactivated, but the committee will hopefully have more time to go over the matter than it was now, but it's normal to have to be done before the beach fishing season begins. In order to cope with this, however, more food has been ensured in the coastal fishing industry than last year, and the Ministry has been expected to respond and add to the system if it appears that not all of its boats will be reached 48 days. Like what? Magnúsdóttir At that time, 13 reports were received, including from Iceland's National Relation Guard. There it was the important fact that the success of the Land Guard had been that this change had been possible, with President permission: ▪[instead of competing with other permit workers for assigned dishes in each area, [the change] seemed to result in the selection of days of hunting for the advantage of the weather and sea layer from the previous years. The fact that coastal fishing boats are less at sea when the sea is floundered directly or indirectly contributes to the greater safety of the sailors. binding these laws guarantees [...] greater security. That was exactly the purpose of the change last year, i.e. trying to improve security and reduce what is called the Olympic Fish. The review of the weekend service suggests that it has been successful in some way and that it is for a great deal of work. President. I don't have to go far over the language the Conspiracy has had about the fishing regime, but we've talked about a much more radical and more reasonable change in their legal environment, so we're going to continue. In this context, there is a bill at the highest level. Senator Oddný new Harðardóttir of the last council on the offer of a supplementary parvota that has contributed to the distribution of the last fishing year without cost. Coastal fishing has been a way of dealing with the views of those who feel the need for changes in the fishing system in order to ensure the population of all the fish. Sadly, this is not nearly close enough, but the changes will come slowly. Hopefully, though, we will soon take major steps in that direction by means of a new constitution, as the nation calls out, which will leave no doubt as to the ownership of our resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u28	A respectable president. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea. Their expectations were high at the time and appeared to be true of each other. So, you might say, the system has grown into fish around the spine, and more clearly, it has come to terms with the benefits. Of course, at that time a great deal of the sources that were originally set out for a beach hunt have been cleared up. In spite of this, we have been watching the decline of the system, so to speak, because fewer people have practiced this fishing than originally expected and could be based on the experience obtained during the first few years. It may be similar that the explanation is that there is simply not enough good in this system. But there's no debate that this has given certain people a chance. This has given rise to ports during the summer season across the country, and many of these are very positive. In this respect, there has not been much disagreement about the rightness of a beach hunt. I've been on it, and I've been on it along with others, saying that sources have been cleared in recent years, and the system changes made by experiment last year. This bill is being laid down, which is a very decisive and limited experience. There is concern that the assessment of the past year's experiences has not been made. The switch of markets, or the delinquency of this land change, was not an impact last year, but many were concerned, and it can, of course, depend on so many factors that from year to year it cannot be stated on how it works. Fishing, known as man - made fishing, music, even after seasons and between areas, is all that is needed. There is no indication of calming down in the matter, where you hunt at any time, nor can you determine how the weather conditions will be affected, what weather conditions will be like for sailors all around the country at any given time to attend sea. We've increased, as I say, the warrants. They are now being suggested for 11,000 tons. The changes have been made that there is an extravasation system and are measures that should result in an increase in cost of efficiency and improvement in coastal fishing. Some expectations are bound to that, anyway. A minister is then allowed to extend the fish if that is the case with all the means planned for this. That power is part of the social system of our fishing system, where 5.3% are taken from all resources and distributed into different indiscriminate factors. Coastal fishing is there, including innuendo, there's shrimp and clams, and there's more to count. This has been discussed in recent years, and efforts have been made to revise the switch between 5.3% of pots, but to no avail. In a board of committees why. According to the employment committee, the likelihood that fishing has to be stopped has been greatly reduced by this increase in fish markets. However, it is also suggested that a minister has the authority to increase the total demand so that all 12 days can be used for all four months below. That was noticed - at least in a talk I noticed. Chairman of the past - that she spoke of little boatmen being caught for 12 days each month. So when you start waking up, as you hear on subboat sailors, you'll expect that if the power finishes, the catch will be added. Last year was the highest. A minister would be very clear that it would not be done; the 10200 tons would be the maximum. So it is shocking to have the highest potential. A minister may not be there to answer for his position on such an important point in this matter, but he is a victim of foreign office, and I have a clear understanding of it, a journey that is important and came up with shame. But the minister's stand would have had to be established. There are aspects of this matter that need to be answered. Hv. The head of the committee, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, came into it earlier that it was headed for the survival of a so - called pot to line up a line that was a fairly high ton number, indicating that it could be used to further add to this system. But we haven't finished the social pot yet. We are faced with more problems in the fishing business than are those in the coastal fishing business. We're here to make up with a few farms in the country, even in the weak, that face the fact that the foundation of what has been theirs for the past few years. I'm witnessing here for lobster fishing. There was also the structure and seamen who felt that they were taking a very sharp item off the table when the lube fishing was banned at the so - called hiking. All of these companies have been denied some kind of compensation based on the lack of space in the system, but all of a sudden it's like an infinite amount of space to add to a beach hunt. It is not quite a sound picture in this, a respectable president, when this is done in order to promote small and medium-sized production, to make sure that the object that certain settlements have had as a means of living, when it comes to fishing, is not to be impaired. So I think it's very important that you look at it, if there's room to form in this fund, how you can solve it without just looking for some more in beach fishing. It is my opinion that 11,000 tons, plus the inquisitors that have been carried out with the Uranus, are very liberal sources into this system, within the social part of the fishing system. The committee's opinion requires a review of the matter. Such conclusions can be drawn from the fact that the matter is not perfect at all. It can be mentioned here in the Committee's opinion that for the Committee, the decision to make a temporary, permanent change is not made - and has been made to say that it has even been made. it's the European Union's attitude and it's waiting for this report. It is also unsurpassed, which has often been discussed, whether or not these fish should be used for the implementation of these areas, as we do with eutrophication, employment areas, or settlements in the country. Then, of course, it is even more helpful to support work and building in the weakest settlements and to make a big difference between it; or, as a strain has become, these elements are in a container, and they are going to Britain to complete their operations. This is unsurpassed, and the committee feels that this need to be considered and specifically mentioned in its committee's list that the catch from coastal fishing is very important to a fish market when a contract is made and that this may be a vertebrae in the processing of many fish industrys during the summer and the product is a quality product. Surely, it is to rejoice that the treatment of the fish in this system of fishing has improved greatly. A person realizes that the better the treatment of labor, the greater the value, and the more he comes from what he brings to the land. The Commission also suggests that the employment and employment agencies and the employment board continue to monitor the development of coastal fishing in the light of objectives for the development of coastal fishing, the development of smaller settlements, and the safety of small boats, and that agreements exist that at the end of the coastal fishing season will make a thorough assessment of the experiences of two recent coastal fishing periods and that the report should be available on February 1, next year. This is fundamental when we discuss this matter, and I'm here to say that it's not a complete case. This way, she's not perfect. In my opinion, this is not a reason to legalize it for the future, especially when there are so many doubts in the opinion of the Committee itself, from the majority and from the members of the committees of all, and in view of the fact that a building agency has to consider this in the main context of the assessment it will take. It's, for example. everyone realizes that the circumstances in which this system began at the time have been changed. I'm especially witnessing on the Westline, they're different. There is a new industry that I and many others expect a lot of, a profession that is not just valuable to these areas, to promote edifices and increase employment and valuables, as well as for national preparation. It's very important. I'm here talking about fish farms, marine farms. In view of new circumstances in some areas, could it be wise for the coastal industry to apply it that there will be additional access and space in other areas of the country that do not live on this structure, and this large, strong foundation that is developing in the economy? There's something we must ask a building agency to examine, that it will be examined in the big context. In effect, many of the weakest settlements are on the way to becoming one of the strongest settlements in the country with this new foundation. And it calls for changes that can take into account this fishing system, this social system, which has been thought to support these ill areas. It is necessary for me to know, and perhaps in the light of the experience of last year, to bind it only to this year. The strongest evidence in this is that when we made this experimental decision last year, it was conditional that an assessment should be made by the Sea Ministry before the next step. The report has not yet been made, and no effort seems to have been made by the Ministry or by any means. The job committee to follow up on this assessment. Of course, that's not a good practice, a respectable president. Are we sure that, if this is legalized now, we will not be able to do the same work? Some members of the committee have come up and said: "Well, we will follow through on this. That was also a vow wording about it last year. So there are things to think about, and it may not seem as easy as it looks to be, even though I am convinced that a good mind follows a case. I do not violate the main goals of this case. I'm not trying to resist the fact that we're going on a beach fishing trip and we're going to get them on a permanent path. But it's important, too, in view of the perspective of those who use this as one of the basics under small productions, there are certainly examples - and I think there are positive changes when it comes to allowing people to get out of the system. Many small miniboats that are at gray skirmish have the only basics under their system, and then they want to cross into the beach fishing for a certain period of time, but it takes them in the autumn to be able not to form a mackerel or a handbook when foie grass are in August and crafts can be in that fishing area, and they may even have some means to sell or obtain access to the rent that has actually been quite useful in this fishing year. With all of this in mind, I would like the bill to go to a committee between discussions. In fact, I would like to have a home for the committee to meet at a meeting in order not to delay the job of Congress. It is only a good mind that follows this suggestion. I think it is worth one Mass that the committee will consider whether the evidence I've presented here is not the basis for a man to join in - to ensure the progress of this case, to ensure the necessary assessment of this 5.3% in the major context - that the Council decides to solve the situation in this way this summer. We're going to collect from the probationary bank and are going to emphasize to the building agency that it prepares its work well in spring and summer, so that the overall context will depend on the assessment that would have to be completed before the end of this year. The government, the council, the Committee, and the Ministry need sufficient time to complete the future in this social aspect of the fishing system for the next spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson's son for an excellent speech. In many ways, he touched the factors I'm warning about, and I'll go over later. Regarding the request that the committee meet during a meeting. I may not have been so easy to handle before. Chairman of the Committee, especially for meeting times. But I'm willing to say that I'm ready to meet in order to review the factors as well. A senator was materially well - versed, weighing reasoning, as soon as we underlined - on the other hand, I would like to underline the boundaries we have in many ways prepared the coasts that it has been shown that since we have made a decision about a system, some call it a social system, we need to create some framework. It has been observed that the coastal fishing has yielded significant results, but I know that the European Union of the United States and the Marine Society have said that they should wait to legalize the situation. Yet, no one who wants to lose the beach fishing is thus out of the social package. But what I think is most important is the overall picture that is not available. It is shocking that the analysis did not take place. Why that is, whether there is a priority in the system, the Ministry, let me not say, but I agree with the senator that this is the way it should be. Right away. A senator spoke of the social system, when he didn't agree that I also need a review on the general basis of the operation of the specific part of quatane, which has been successful in the graffiti? [[The president calls.]] Its suggestions are natural.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u30	A respectable president. Of course, the graffiti called graffiti is part of the 5.3% system. It was tested on the tip of the highest. Ministers to start them working for the winter, and it was signed together with other members of Congress, but time has not been achieved to get men together. We tried to do this, if I recall two or three times right in 2013-2017, to get all the work done on this system. But it is true that much has suggested that in some cases the arrangement for deforestation has helped. But this too is critical. Therefore, we have reason to examine these overall effects and how we can best ensure that this vast amount of value, with 5.3% of our resources, will come to the best of our country's resources. That's why I talked about earlier that it had to be in the big context of a living agency. These factors need to be examined. This is also important because of the visuality of these small and medium-sized structures. In the ruralo system, for example, to form a respectable president, the reference is not to rowing between years and years, and it has not been able to provide such a firm basis for a particular period of time, e.g. to renew or repair their boat and go to a set cost, because they have not been able to rely on this income from year to year. I agree with that. A senator's need to be intertwined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I also wondered about other matters about the beach fishing. The wish was made in the case of certain groups that all the power of longboats is available in the market. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's what a senator is for. I think that what we need to remember about the social system and this large part of the financial sector, 5.3%, is that we still demand that we make the highest value and value in relation to the 5.3% share, and that they will be the most, the value being the most created. I wondered if all the power in the market is part of it, if it is realistic, or if it is possible. There's a senator coming in. I reiterate that I agree with the senator that I believe it is right for the committee to look at this before the Passover break and is ready to meet at the council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u32	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with the view that we should just try to think about this system so that the benefits of this will be the greatest for those to whom we direct this action. In this regard, there is certainly a point to consider, whether there is going to be full force on the market. I'm not sure in all cases. Yet, it can be said that when the system started off, it was an effect, due to the way the system was built up and has been made of changes these days, that the prices of markets went very low. In fact, those who did not hunt in the first few days of their lives stayed in the country even because of the high costs being dropped by coastal fishing boats. Of course, in that sense it was unacceptable to all. The daily distribution is positive in ensuring the smoother flow of the day - to - day process, resulting in good results from the natural process and the entire industry. But, yes, we have the goal of strengthening the structure and type of sea parish. Part of developing a structure is clearly trying to contribute to some kind of processing or more of valuables in the local place. But let us not be grudgingly aware that modern technology in the fishing industry and in recent years has been introduced, except for a very specialized process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u33	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill about changing the law on the control of fishing, which turns to coastal fishing. The committee has completed its mission and is presented with a committee opinion. Last spring, a controversial bill was passed at the General Parliament on coastal fishing. The main changes were that the fishing days were tied to 12 days of each boat each month, the four months of the Coastal Fishing period, and were valid for maximum intensity. There was also a directive allowing coastal fishing boats to evasive as VS forces and this force would not be a reference to the maximum power. Then it was emphasized that there would be one pot over the land. With this bill, we sort of repeat the game last year with some changes, but we tried that there was quite some opposition to the changes in the previous spring, and we received harsh statements. At the end of the day, there was a general pleasure with the system. When I talk about general pleasure, it's by the greater part, of course, places and people who don't like it and want to see some changes in the system. It included many ideas, even moving for four months, not always being within the four fixed months but being able to move for fishing or when the fish would give up in each area, etc. But on average I think it was pretty good, which showed that these 12 days of a month could be relied on in all areas. That's what matters. When this bill was submitted last year, we talked about the security issues and I think the conclusion was particularly in favour of coastal fishermen, that they were not running into any weather, that safety was guaranteed in the areas where they went to fish. In particular, you could mention the area of A where it was a real appeal to reach the first few days and even went down to four days before the pot ran out. It makes sense that being first down to the dock and out to get some value of those days is important. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the safety of small boats by ensuring a number of days for fishing each month, thus preventing seamen from rowing out in bad weathers to compete for or fishing for authorized fish before closing for fishing. The marine guard who observed this came to this conclusion, and their experience in summer was that it had worked. Number one, two, three, this is very important. Of course, circumstances vary around the country. Each port has its own place, and the boats that row from there. Therefore, it is not possible to ensure the complete equality of all parties or all rejections. Even in the hidden harbor, it matters how many hours it takes to get to the sights of the fish. Even if we are trying to reach it to some extent, we will never reach perfection. At any rate, we now have more money to play, bigger pots, or 11,000 tons. The 9700 were caught. There have been many conflicting emphasis on this, whether it will further shrink in these coastal fishing, or if there will be an increase. Some feel that there is more to it because they cannot rent goodbye. But as with the weather or the fishing industry, there is no certainty in it. But the important thing is that we are now establishing this system, which has been at the hands of a nation for 10 years and has proved to be that coastal fishing is of great importance to all ports and places. I thought it was a little special to hear from a couple of guys. The members of the council who spoke before that they were very different in how important they were. At any rate, I cannot hear from my work on the Committee that this situation is of little importance to someone, since everyone had an enormous view of it. This emphasizes the importance of people. This is where it matters. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson spoke of this as being less important in the West as it was entering a major industry, i.e. the salmon fire. But it's something we have nothing in our hands. We're working on it. It may be in the next decade that the profession will prove itself. Coastal fishing is also important in the tourism industry or just for the space, cultural values are high. I have seen in the places where shore fishing is practiced, even though there are only two, three boats, depending on the size of the harbor and where they are, that it is extremely important both for the local people, for the people in the space, and for those who visit the place, to see this life on the dock. We are also stressing the cultural background of the people here, that even if they are small boats, people are going to the sea. It is not just large tugs that arrive in the country every week or every month to return the catch, but it is that life on the dock that really matters. We must not forget in this regard. That's why I think it's very important that we establish this system. Some people are concerned that the system will be reduced to stone, and this will never be undone, and this will result in in inequities, a pot going out in the A area, and they'll all be caught there. I'm not so worried about that because we've been meaning to take out these two years. I can assure you what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says we're going to walk after that. The committee and I agreed that this assessment would be done after summer, and it just didn't work out. The Committee has now agreed that at the end of the 2019 Coastal Fishing period, the Agency will make a thorough assessment of the experiences of the last two coastal fishing periods. The report needs to highlight cohesion, security, the results of different parts of the country, the flexibility of the system, and fishing in the fishing zones over the period. The results will be used by a professional committee to further reform the coastal fishing system. I don't know how this can be any clearer, if we need any signing person who promises to do this, but it must be enough of the commission to review these factors and to consider different changes that matter all over the country. I can't see any reason why we're going back into some room to discuss this further. It is the sincere will of the Committee that the assessment takes place, and we will monitor it. The marine fishing system cannot grow without being followed and monitored so that any changes that arise can be dealt with, whether in different locations or in the whole country. It is of utmost importance that all of this be followed. I see no reason why this is more about the committee. We're going into Easter break, but it's May 1. If we don't agree with this until after Easter, we'll have two days. Those who plan to go fishing must have to prepare, or at least have the assurance that we can provide for the way they should fish. The changes made in the bill include The VS levels, but it is clear in the bill that it can be counted to the maximum intensity of the day, but that the countries should care about which VS forces should keep it separate from other sources, specifically weighed and recorded. This is a change for the better. There are areas that have specifically called after these changes and think they're different from the table. They may have been able to take advantage of the extra money to earn and profit in the system. I think it's a good change, as well as we're increasing the pot 800 tons and the high price for a fortune of 1,000 tons, 700 tons a year. We are trying to ensure specific 12 days, and the committee notes that a minister is authorized to expand the total value for the 12 days. I don't quite understand the fear that's happened in two years. People who came before, say that we're going to a peak or put some variables that don't make sense. I don't think the beach fishing is a threat to any system in the fishing road, it's just a reference, and I think we're particularly focused on the weak settlements that have made good use of the fishing. I'd like to mention, for example. The North Fair on the beach, which we can probably call the weak. There have been boats, but not many, but this has been done there. And even if it all goes into the market or through a container and goes anywhere else, it's not quite working at that point, it'll add life to the harbor. There are always some around, the beach fishermen have to get in and stay, and they always roll the ball. I think there's a way to count it to work everywhere. I don't really understand this fear at what's happening. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, that there are some settlements to get too fat in the West that don't deserve this. I don't know exactly where he's going, unless he's gonna make sure that there's something going on in the ocean. It's just good. I think it'll happen on its own, and if they don't think they can guarantee better living there, they won't disappear from loyal jobs to go to the beach fishing. I just want to stress that we're going to stress that this review is being done by the Office and I trust them perfectly to do so, and we can then discuss the matter after that review comes. It came to the Committee's opinion that the planned change would be better temporarily and not permanently established until the review. But I think it's better to watch two years, then move your course on. I think it's very important that this system is here to stay. In the last 10 years, the pot has grown, beginning with 3,400 tons and up to 9,700 tons last year, and meeting each other in 2018, the same as it did in the previous year despite its rise. Thus, the coastal fishing system grew and grew in all parts of the country. I don't think I have many more words on this subject. We've been very synchronized with at work on the Committee. Of course, there have been only differences in emphasis. But we were all writing on this committee opinion, even in advance, and I think we should take advantage of it and make it work and get it right from us and put it out to the borders of the country so that all the people can safely prepare for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u34	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill on changing the law on fishing management, coastal fishing, a case that we brought to the Committee last year to meet a very clear view on the part of our rural society, but also on coastal fishermen and most small boat sailors, that needs to be considered. Safety reasons and increases flexibility within the coastal wave system. Well, it's been quite a while since the beach fishing was started, but right in the beginning it's over. I think that during the time they have been around people, it has been shown that few want to put down the fish. However, we as legislatators are under obligation to consider these factors more clearly. Then I hope we don't do that from average glasses, but from the whole point of view, including We who own the resource, so we insist that the resource is well-new, that valuables become the most important and that those who practice the article, have a job of it, at least in part, you can have specific warnings, safety reasons you might have and you can be ready to listen to what you can do better. This may vary depending on the rules. There's no doubt about it. Looking at it from the southwest corner, it is clear that the viewpoint of members of the Parliament differs according to the source of their country. Last year I was in the case. I'm on the opinion now as an officer of the hearing but I'm going to make an account of them here. Last year it was suggested that this was an experiment, a temporary project, and that the assessment would be performed. I find it interesting that the lawgiver, as well as the executives, has room or tools to develop, to develop both the administrative and our systems, whether by health, by sea or by agriculture, that we try to develop in the form of a series of experiments, which are developed and then we make an assessment of what can be done better. I also found this interesting because I took my heart to the basic viewpoints, especially the security issues that are very clear and clear. It's hard to ignore them. I'm sorry, therefore, that my first emancipation has not been made. While the assessment has not been made, I find it hard to see that we permanently validate this authority, that it is not temporary. I don't think it's a good thing for that methodology, if I'm supposed to say exactly what it is. This will lead to the beginning of interesting ideas about changing a part of the fishing system or the agricultural system, or any system, you are automatically protected. Is a person being accepted into a project that will be legalized in a year, regardless of how you feel about the project, regardless of whether the report has been made on the project? I don't think it's good enough. I would've seen nothing to have contained what it is but without a validation, i.e. that it wasn't in position. I'd like to agree with you. In regard to what the European Union considered to be a team member, it worked together with the seafaring community. They now believe that it is premature, with the permission of the President, a legalized coastal fishing system when the assessment has not yet been completed. It is part of careful legalization to examine the impact of the bill, social and financial factors. Therefore, the Union and the organisation do not support the progress of this bill on the same basis and consider it more reasonable to consider that the provisional regulations will be extended and that the assessment of the arrangement is immediately carried out. I would have wanted to keep on making provision so that it would be a real burden to us and the pressure to make an assessment. We now have the experience of one year, and no assessment has been made. We have a discriminatory statement from the Based Office, but if a minister's viewpoint is that this is not a priority, the assessment may not be done. By provisional regulations, we would have had a measure of pressure on the whole system, the review is to be carried out, as it is unanimously that the Commission wants to make an assessment of this experiment. I'd like to draw out that the majority of guests are quite satisfied with the effect of the changes, but it is also appropriate to draw out to a number of people, such as Cruella, a small boat society in the East. But even People who had a lot of warning last year admitted that with the steps taken by a professional worker in making the beach fishing more flexible, promoting a safety point, the safety motive has been reinforced. It's, for example. I'm quite clear in the state guard review. It's a cause for rejoicing, and we're supposed to watch it. That's what my biggest agent is doing. I don't think it's a good idea to legalize coastal fishing. I would've wanted to see it first. Second, and this may be related to the review, I would have liked to see - I know that there was a particular review or report of the general rural area, led by Þóroddur Bjarnason, on the short period of time I was in the Ministry. The graffiti-venting process is divided, i.e. The specific and generalised eutrophication. We can have opinions about whether the system should be like this or not, but because we have the system, we have the job of trying to get it out of the best way. The more specific localised groundwork and its implementation have been successful in the construction of a home. It has been so that there has obviously been a greater agreement for this arrangement in marine areas than about the general rural area. I believe and am convinced that we will then have to make a definite assessment of the general population of the country. One assessment is available. One report is in place, and the red strand in it is concealing the rural communities to account for the extent to which they have or receive the general rural area. It is up to them to appreciate what is suitable for each other's community. And speaking of the West, there is one arrangement that would be suitable for Sufjörður, according to the governor of the country at its time, and another that would be suitable for the Sugland land or for the South. I would have been thrilled to see further progress on that subject. My lord has even fluffed it. that I had wanted to get a clearer picture of the whole thing, a complete picture of the social system, and that I agree with that view as a question. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson brought you back earlier. The third point that I would like to point out is not better. It is not to say that I did not discuss it specifically within the committee. But I would have liked to see that we had a better discussion of the environmental issues that we could build into the system. It might come out of a full re-examination, what might motivate us to build into the system for submarines on the environment. We know that the electricization of the fishing fleet has begun. Apparently, the big fleet has reached out of its carbon leg by connecting the fleet when it's in the country. But it's a huge project. It has taken a very important and responsible step, one that is exemplary in my view. But I also wondered about the motivation within the small system of little boat stars. It's a little bit slower, tell me what techs it is to create ideas that would make it possible for the little boat sailors who went out on electric boats to get either more days or more inquisitives, just so that environmental movement would be inserted into the system. I would have liked that discussion. There may be a better time, but this is still a point that will hopefully be taken into the system assessment as such. I also think it's important and hope that when this year's review is done - and we have to keep an eye on it, that's clear, that experience in the past year shows that what the system says, the government says, whether the assessment will take place or not, so we need to press it - we'll better go over if we have part of the beach crew going on studying putting all fish on the market, making that requirement. At any rate, we need to see what we can do in cooperation with our communities. That's why I think we need, and take it under the wishes of him. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, meeting on a professional committee and reviewing the points he mentioned and the ones I have drawn and also taking care of a path so that we can convince people that the way we're going is right now - although I don't agree with the legalization of time and would have had this provisional principle - and the wisest in the position with regard to the development of rural communities, considering the processing of the labor, in view of work. Why do boats cut down in the coast fishing fleet? Why is that, although it has not been necessarily in its final year, e.g. in region D that the number of boats has increased, yet the yield has declined? These are things that we need to get better answers to, and that will only be done with the review we agree on. I believe it is important that we meet at the end of the summer or at the beginning of the fall council, even before a council meeting, to find out what the situation is. Otherwise, the situation is: We took a certain step last year, and we face it. Will that system be maintained? I say yes, but only temporarily until the assessment has been made. There are some things that we need to review, but the big picture is that the security role, the security policy, the security issues have been reinforced by these changes, and that is especially why I support this matter, except that we are putting more emphasis on the principle of the coastal fishing process. But I also will be careful of the council, because the councilmen, and especially of the provinces, are content, and understandably, in this matter, to be ready to receive the matter, that it might be broken down. It must be reasoned specifically if there is a further improvement in this part of the fishing system. Therefore, it is important that we be evaluated so that we know exactly what steps we need to take to strengthen our whole fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney for lead-up on committee opinions on the employment committees to change the fish management law, i.e. changes in coastal fishing. I've previously established a warning that we are supporting the now existing coastal zone or that was on the coast for the past year and is expected to be permanent. The reason I have made this statement is uncertain about how the arrangement can have different effects in areas and even communities. I see, however, certain advantages in putting things together and keeping a closer eye on the progress and how the arrangement works, for this means more confidence for those who are involved in the beach fishing. It has been confirmed in the work of the employment committee that there is more security in this system. It seems that this method can ensure a more expensive catch, and more has been identified there. I also agree that it is urgent that this year's coastal fishing arrangements will be taken care of as soon as possible. It may not be later that we publish what is now taking place in spring with the modern - day group. The majority of the additional resources that came into the system in the previous region of A, and thus it will probably be also this year. In itself, there is nothing wrong with the present situation. What I'm worried about, however, is that if the outside circumstances change, e.g. If there is a decrease in total resources in all the fishing system, this could affect the maximum fishing resources in the coastal fishing system and it could be difficult to make sure that all areas reach all the days they can catch. Thereafter, changes in labour markets can lead to a greater trend for fishing. Weather conditions vary between parts of the country and influence one another. Fish products can be both discouraging and encouraging, and so fishing has a bearing on areas, of course, an impact on the parish. Fishing may vary according to season and depend on weather and so on. It's just like everything we have under nature, we can never accurately predict how things develop. It is also foretold that people are concerned about this arrangement and have criticized it. They come primarily from Southeast and Eastern lands. However, it seems to me that this arrangement is more settled than it was at the same time a year ago when we were discussing the experiment that was then being made. It was a key step in my mind to obtain an assessment before taking this decision. Unfortunately, I have not been able to accomplish this, but I am very pleased with what is being said in the sectoral committee's committee's committee's committee's section on developing coastal fishing in view of the objectives set out in the bill on coastal fishing, building smaller settlements, increasing safety of sailors, and support in the light of national and regional cohesion. Of course, it is very important, and of this we must all unite, that the assessment will be done as discussed here on the next winter on the system, and it will specifically evaluate these factors. It is also important to have regular evaluations for the future, whether every two, three, or five years, since changes may occur with little advance. It is crucial in the case of those who are considered to agree to highlight this assessment. Therefore, I will support this bill in confidence that this assessment will actually be done on the effects of the bill in the light of these goals and equality. Coastal fishing is really important for the industry in various smaller settlements, and there is nothing necessarily the smallest settlement, it is just a set law of habitation on the land. Perhaps that sort of assessment will help you to see what structure this is that has a significant impact on it. It's not obvious when you watch the Iceland card which places it is. And others have what? Congress arranged a small amount of 5.3% of the catchmark, what has been called the social part of the fishing industry. I agree with what has been said there, that it is very important to follow the work started on the future development of that system, how it will be used to strengthen buildings, to strengthen innovation, and to develop small - boat development. I agree with that too. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came into this office, that at work it is important to look to the building agency to see how the specific settlement could possibly be used to promote work in the seas, but also to strengthen some other aspects in the community by ensuring that the interest of the fish that arrived in the country, or the food that was available for provision in that system, yielded to some other structure in the rural communities, e.g. to support other economic development as well as coastal fishing. Because it doesn't matter whether we're supposed to think of Iceland as a whole or a single subspecies, it's always that the more support we're living in the commercial world, the stronger we're living in. But I repeat, the basis for me to support this bill is for a real evaluation next year and then for regular monitoring of trends, including in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u36	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to correct a change in the law on the control of fishing, called a beach fishing bill. The bill aims to establish the temporary changes made in the coastal fishing system last year. I agree with the critical conversations we've heard from some members of the council about not doing this again on temporary occasions, i.e. not to extend these temporary regulations, but not to establish them. I agree with them because I do not believe that there is enough experience in this new arrangement to do so, although it has been successful in the last coastal fishing period, i.e. last year. I agree with them that I think the arrangement should be reassigned temporarily, at least the next period. Mr. President. I'm very happy for a lot of things you can find on the bill. There are many benefits. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. Work committees for the work the committee has put into this case, especially seeking to accept different viewpoints. In this regard, I would especially like to point out that it is intended to increase the maximum amount to 11,000 tons. The increase has fallen to increase the likelihood of my greatest concern, that in all areas seamen can go for the four months in which they are allowed to hunt each month before stopping the fishing, because at the same time, the maximum levels of employment are allowed, the Fishing Room will stop the catch all over the country at the same time. What a marvelous improvement it is that the coast fishing fleet can land up to 1,000 tons of economist without inducing that intensity to be counted at its maximum level! The share of ship-making is 80% of the catch, which, in my opinion, is acceptable. I would also like to point out the fact that the new number of days and maximum forces over the entire period contribute to the safety of coastal fishermen and are largely off - limits in the media. That's most valuable, Mr. President. To allow marine fishermen to stop hunting and cross into another system, I also think there are improvements, as there may be a number of reasons, such as. that it is not entirely possible for all to engage in coastal fishing for the whole season, and if so, they can move to other fishing places. Mr. President. It is my hope that with this bill, more people will be able to do this fishing and that more young people will see an opportunity in this hunt. These changes will also contribute to fresher and more precious raw materials, where the coastal fishing system is more available and is much more open and able to improve its quality. All that makes the small population around the country stronger is improving. The commission stated that the Committee and the Ministry of Employment will continue to monitor the development of coastal seas and that the Agency will make a thorough assessment of the experience of the 2018 and 2019 coastal seas. Based on what it needs to be considered, such as cohesion, security, the results of different parts of the country that I am focusing on, the flexibility of the system, and the fishing development of fish in the fishing areas during these two shore fishing periods. It's supposed to be a celebration. According to the National Committee's Committee of Professional Roads, there has been a general sense of satisfaction among clients with the changes made in 2018 and that the last period of beach fishing was successful. However, there were some who expressed their concern specifically regarding regional division. That's exactly what I've been pointing at. The main problem with this system is that it is indiscriminate in areas. Seamen in one area may need much more time to get the same thing out of the sea than in another area. It also depends on summertime, where fishing may vary according to the timing of summer fishing. This is well illustrated by the tables attached to the Commission opinion that after the recording of this system last year, it is now only one reference year, hunting days increased considerably in region A, but more significantly in the other areas. These tables appear to show that coastal fishing boats were quicker to complete their quota in area A before these changes occurred, while sailors in other areas did not achieve the same results in the same short term, no matter what the blame is, no good or the weather. I'm going to put this up in a little parable that I feel will sum up with what this change will mean. A person who was able to catch 6 tons in eight days before the area was closed profites more from the growth of days to 12 more than one who needed 16 days to catch the same number before closing the area. For the first, there is an increase but a impairment in the others. This sums up what I have criticized the most, that the average day - to - day peak varies from place to place, and it is seen on these pills. Actually, if I've looked at it correctly, I'm gonna need the catch. These are mostly the days. Mr. President. I also described my concern about totals on the same occasion last year. This may result in the loss of the total strength before the period is over and fishing is stopped. Not only does the parish but it also governs outside forces, not only the quality and the weather, but also the price of fish. When fishing is stopped, some areas have not achieved any hopes, e.g. Because of the lack of fish or the weather. This is in itself fine while there is enough overall power, but since complacency or weather prevents man from catching a convenient day's resources, it can cause him to simply fail to catch a fair share of the coast.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u37	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a committee opinion of changing the bill's proposal to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, coastal fishing. I'm on this committee party. My name is there, and I agree with it. I'm just going to review key points in the opinion of the committee that I highlighted, agreeing to appear and discuss it. The first is that during the last summer, as allowed 12 days per month, it was good, and hunting days were chosen for the weather and seawater instead of competing for the assigned quotas in each area, as did the preceding years. When this conclusion or a very joyful announcement was made, the National Guard received it out. I also heard from the locals that they said that the atmosphere was calmer. People wouldn't be rushing into some nonsense in bad weather. This was the basic theme of the last spring when this case was recommended and in the work that took place in connection with the safety issues being taken care of. That's good. That's an extra pot, 10200 tons, last year in the pot, 11,000 tons. The cast of 700 tons last year is increased to 1,000 tons. This is improved and makes it more likely that men and women and all who go to shore will make their days available and not be closed in any area before men finish their days. That's what you've heard is that there are a lot of concerns in many areas, that the pot run out, but last year it was allowed 10,200 tons that there were over 100 tons left or more. It was caught about 9,000 tons. Besides shrimp and shelling, it looks like there's going to be some change in line integration this year, and there's the authority to use what's left over, if necessary, to add to the beach fishing. As it looks now, it's 1,500 tons or something like that. We could be talking about some 12,000 pounds and 13,000 tons. Although there would be an increase in boats, it should not be, in my opinion and in our committee, that the pot would run out. There are also other changes proposed to change the bill, which I am very pleased with. The committee stops, for example. so that there can be a break-off in the season and a different fishing process, e.g. of May, June, July. If a boat goes out in June, it'll go down next month, then it can go into another game of hunting. This is in the spirit of the one who was present on the bill that failed to arrive last year, it was a matter of fact, that men could quit the beach fishing and go to another hunt. It hasn't been like that. If you stop fishing, you'll have to wait for the next class to start some other fishing. But there it is. On the inside of the breaker, e.g. The gray-free period until August. You can start on shore fishing and then go on a gray break. Those who are concerned that macrolides could stop e.g. in June or July and into the mackerel. This allows time for more attention to what they consider to be of benefit to people, since not everyone who has a lot to do is involved in what he does. What a joy that is, and how happy I am of that change! Then there's something that's been set up in speeches today, that they're putting this on, not on temporary or one-year-old as we did last year. I quite admit that I had something in me that we couldn't begin to discuss the matter before the winter and work on tailoring it as we actually promised in the spring. But for some reason it did not enter the committee until not long ago, so time is short, since beach fishing begins May 1. It was adopted by the Committee of most people, some being warned, that the Agency would make a thorough assessment of the experiences of two last coastal fishing periods. The report needs to highlight cohesion, security, the results of different parts of the country, the flexibility of the system, and fishing in the fishing zones over the period. The results of this work programme will be used to further reform the coastal fishing system in collaboration with coastal fishermen in the four areas and their coastal interest group in 2020. It will be requested that this assessment be performed no later than February 1, 2020. I'm gonna let me believe that by this price, and I'm not gonna doubt that we're on this. There's one good thing about this, so fixed seen, then there's two years under, two summers or periods, and shows more time. They complained a little bit about in some parts of the country that it wasn't a lot to mark the last summer because the mood would have been bad, and the boats in the area of A, where, often, the best fishing in the spring, couldn't have done as much as they could otherwise if the weather had been better. It may be quite different in the summer, so it reveals what it is like and can be taken into account. I trust that this work is being carried on by a graffiti, and I'm not going to say anything more about it. There's been some killings in the preceding talks. I noticed this in a talk by reason of it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson that he mentioned another fishing thing that would match the frame of drawing for goods because of all kinds of things, e.g. are forbidden, lobster fishing is slow, and the fishing work is bad, and so is the street. I've suggested that the hatch be opened as a series of lines, hooks, and all fishing instruments, it be allowed to land in VS or something like that. It's not allowed today. At least, the full power of the tail goes back to the ocean. We can't let land pass. You don't know how the situation is on the hatch, nor has any investigation of the Marine Research Institute. There's not been a request for them to investigate this, I'm giving myself that it's because of lack of money or anything like that. However, if a hatch was allowed as a means of landing, it would be a picture of how the situation is concerned. I've been in line, and I've felt the last few years that this is growing. You know, it's getting big and it's a mess not to be able to touch it, because I'm letting you know, there's not a lot of nerds that survives even though she goes back to the sea, and some of it's just dead when she comes up. I suggest that a lubricant hunt be allowed back at full force. This was a reference to land in the home and then for development and as much as a canal export. It would be a great improvement if all fish, because we're talking about beach fishing, the country would be in progress. If this were done, it would be far more valuable to each structure. But it may be hard to put it into law, I don't quite realize it. It's probably not that simple, but it would be good if it were possible. In terms of smut exporting, it is not worth much, nor is it at all in a container of exporting fish. It's not a good example. But it has, like other things, it may be difficult to forbid it. At any rate, however, it is possible to take steps in that direction. We are, given that this matter will be agreed upon, to take the step of establishing a beach hunt in law. It really is a milestone. Coastal fishing has proved itself to be an excellent system, so it is content with the article all along with this national system after the arrival of coastal fishing. I was very cynical at them at the time, but there's also some things that have been better, the power's increased, and the way it's done here, there's been some fixing. I hope there'll be a better way to clean this up when it comes back in the fall. I express my joy with this step, hoping that a world of Congress would agree with me in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u38	Mr. President. I thank you for the head of the committee opinion, huh? A fine speech, as soon as I thank her for her leadership during the course of time, is presented by a member of Lilja Hyn Rafney Magnúsdóttir. A professional health committee. My fucking mates, what. Councilmen Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Sigurður Páll Jónsson have given us much emphasis on this matter, so I can stay on a general level. As noted in a committee study, the bill aims to establish the changes temporarily made in the coastal fishing period of 2018. The bill suggests that the switch between regional markets will be dropped, and the Fishing Office is authorized to stop coastal fishing takes the overall power of coastal fishing boats beyond the quantity required for fishing. They recommend that every ship be allowed to hunt for 12 days within each month of a coastal fishing season, i.e. in May, June, July and August. The primary goal of the bill is to improve the safety of small boats by ensuring a number of days for fishing each month. It prevents fishermen from rowing into bad weathers to compete to catch authorized fish before they are shut down for fishing. The Commission has concluded that this changing system will lead to an increase in safety, equality, and development of the total coastal fishing system with increased resources and flexibility in the selection of hunting days. Here's a safety guide. The Commission has concluded that the choice of fixed days may lead to a more efficient level of raw materials spreading over the month, increasing the availability of fresh materials during the summer and increasing the spread of regions. This can also contribute to an increase in structure and innovation in this article. The Commission points out that there is a planned increase in resources from the 2018 Coastal Fishing period to raise maximum intensity to 11,000 tons and an increase in the maximum concentration of 1,000 tons. According to the Commission, the probability of stopping fishing has been substantially reduced as the total resources for coastal fishing have been increased in this way. In the opinion of the Committee, any additional documents are likely to ensure that in all areas fishing is possible for 12 days every month. The Commission noted that a minister has the authority under the stated regulations on fish management in order to increase the overall catch of 12 days to coastal fishing each year in May, June, July, and August. I call attention to important and informative data provided by the Committee's opinion where sea fishing days can be seen on coastal fishing days from areas and months in 2010-03/2018, and the use of permit days and the recruitment rate of days permissible in the season of 20136/2018. The aforementioned opinion is very revealing about the various indications that have been made and the reaction to them. Among them are anxiety over regional exchanges, such as whales. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiç in his talk, which I think is understandable. An important factor in the case as currently established is to agree that after the shore fishing season in this year, the Agency will make a thorough assessment of the experiences of the last two coastal fishing periods. The report needs to highlight cohesion, security, the results of different parts of the country, the flexibility of the system, and fishing in the fishing zones over the period. At the end of the day, there is much to say. The employment committee has the opportunity to work on further improvements in the coastal fishing system in consultation with coastal fishermen in the four areas and their interest groups for the coastal fishing period 2020. It will be requested that this assessment be performed no later than February 1, 2020. Mr. President. The bill includes establishing and strengthening the legal setting for the coastal fishing. There are several factors that are lacking in this subject, but I believe that there is high expectations for the assessment of the Agency and the development and improvement of the legal environment. Work committee in view of these assessments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u39	Mr. President. I believe that there is a reason to come back up here and to challenge my position on several aspects of this bill, first of all, that the coastal fishing arrangements, as it was changed to provisional last year before the 2018 Coastal Fishing season, will be established. I simply don't think that there is enough experience in this new arrangement and that it is more successful to allow the present arrangement to be temporary, too, in the summer. I count one coastal season simply too short the reference time. I'm also going to make a small decision about the regional division and the dangers I spoke about the division between areas and regional differences regarding this arrangement. If we look at the table, we will see that area A, if we aim in 2010-2017, the new arrangement has increased. The number of sites A has increased significantly to 48 from 30 C.E., considering the rest of the years. In section B, the number of days has been pretty much in place. In areas C and D they have decreased, from 55 days on average to 54 to 48. There's quite a difference between areas, there's a lot of increase in days in one area, there's a significant decrease in two others, but there's a fourth. This is what I'm talking about. Also, I call attention to 2017, where it's a bit different from other years, especially B, C and D area in terms of number of days. Likely, this is probably a lack of selfishness, so it has been a long time for them to reach the territory's quota and have required intense attendance. That's exactly what I'm pointing at. The illustration I'm going to repeat is this: A person who could feed six tons in eight days before he was closed profited, of course, more by the growth of days to 12 than a person who takes 16 days to catch the same amount of fish, i.e. These six tons, before his territory is closed. For the first, there is an increase but a impairment in the others. Can a business committee that has done a very good job - and I'll be commended. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson son of Isun to the professional committee for adjusting this bill, as it really is, and in many ways is a marvelous improvement. It may not be simple or easy to figure out the problem I'm talking about, but this can become a realistic problem if a total kavota is achieved, which has actually increased to 11,000 tons, before the beach fishing season is over and fishing is stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing. A professional committee, and especially her chairman, huh? paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, congratulations on this great phase. I'm gonna start by saying what. Senator: How come my name isn't on this bill? I would have been a bit happy with it. For some reason it has washed up, and I thought it was hard to --
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u41	We'll fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u42	A professional health committee has received 14 introductions and reviews with the bill. When I was as active as I was at the back of my head. There was no question about the job committee that if they really tried to accept and follow up on them, they would be able to appear before the committee and discuss things - many things are done and all are really tried to meet everyone's needs, but of course it can't be done. A group of people have a set course in coastal fishing, wanting to give beach fishing a free hand. That's another story. But I would like to discuss some comments, especially three or four of our reviews, which were very interesting. I'd also like to mention, before I think any further, that I heard in the manager of the small boat owners, the Örn of Pálsson, in thebet, talking about the position in our life, that the cod stock is probably at the most historically high. More than 40% of the cod fish caught over eight pounds [8 kg]. We know that it's a hairy failure, and it turns out that these giant cods are full of little cods. I'd like to refer to the review of the country's small boat owners who have thought this to be an improvement but still want to focus on the 48 days allowed to go to the hunt where it is contained so that it is 12 days per month, which will not be moved between. Although the weather is only six days in June, they are not allowed to take over six days in July. I think it's what's put out of it, that they don't have 48 days and get to take advantage of it any way they want. While it is talking about security and preventing the so - called Olympic fishing, there will be a tendency to do so when a battle must be fought with all force to reach 12 days, whether the weather will not allow it. They are more likely to be left in doubt, in any weather. Let us give ourselves an opportunity to go to the end of the month, perhaps seven days after the month. At that time, the natural person will try to fetch the water no matter what the weather may be. One of the inside narratives especially attracted my attention. I'd like to refer it to you for a second. It, on April 3, 2019, writes Jón Kristjánsson, a fisherman and Þórðarson, a former senator and biologist. It is safe for us to pay attention to what it says. Although they are not employees of the prestigious Marine Research Institute, they are worthy of listening to what they have to say - the evolution of the marine environment has been in order that there is a reason to listen. It is their opinion that in addition to increasing the production capacity of the crops of the land and increasing power of the marine habitats, bodyfish needs to be greatly increased in shallow areas and in particular onindustrial soils. That's what it says. We know of these small fishing villages all over the country where all life is almost lying down. There is no foundation anymore, and young people are moving away. The average age in these little spaces has grown pretty tall. I'm going to go ahead, with President's permission: A report published by the Summit that the shrimping stocks had yielded to the increase of cods and exaggerators, but the application of the groundwaters has been greatly reduced, including Because of the limitations of the eating system, the fishing of small boats. It says that there were outstanding changes in life in six beaches and fleas on the West and the North in two decades since 1995. A shrimper has been in a state of protection because of the growing robbery of cods and exaggeration that ended by the collapse of the shrimping stocks on these shores. During the early 1900's, shrimping power could be between two and three thousand tons, but in winter it is permitted to fish 456 tons. In the face of the worst conditions, no fishing has been allowed since the turn of the century. For a more detailed discussion of this report, see the February 21, 2019, issue under the title: The robbery did not treat the shrimp. - With the proliferation of cods and exaggerators on the shores and fleas west and north, shrimp stocks were left behind. The bottom line of the matter is that with the development of peristaltic systems and a large cutdown section to try to build up the ◯ Soil, it has greatly reduced the attendance of infertile cod, with the result that shrimp is eaten and, indeed, the lobster in the South country as well. Then, too, he has a good meal for flat fish and other species. The Shrimp department has been pointing this out for decades but has little to do with the cod ward of Merro. To deal with this, fish fishing should be free, that would give more fish and more shrimp. The cod is far away from eating up the fur, finished with the shrimp, the lobster, the cloves, and the flatfish on the shallows and youngs of their own. The question has been asked whether the free fishing of small boats will not lead to overfishing [and therefore] is to answer that a few years ago the absolute bioavailability rate of the seams has been determined to decrease since it was 353/40% of the population size for decades to 20% to build up the strain. This 35% use of money gave 4003/4,500 y'all. a total of tons per year, showing that the strain was well tolerated. The reduction rate was also reduced after the recovery rate was reduced. This is because the ocean's food supply did not allow such a huge stock, and he began to eat under him. A respectable president. It is, in fact, strange that we always seem to be talking about the same thing. Not much of a change. We need to face the problem of living things around the country. We're looking at a failure of hairy hair. We look, as shown in this review, whether we look at shrimp, lobster, flat fish, or anything else, to the seriousness of our situation. There's a serious situation where the codfish is eating from itself. That's a serious matter. Maybe it's time for my good head of the pro board, huh? Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, step outside the box, and be a little brave about this. I'd like to join her for at least Testing at any point where we can really look at these things. We know that it would not be a beach hunt or a skiing of small boats that would destroy the beach. But when we look at it, as we have seen, that over 40% of the fished codfish are more than eight pounds [8 kg] - they're not even small, and they're full of themselves, cods they've been eating because they've gone away - we've got to get in and do it with some force. The above reference continues: The size of cod has reached its potential peak, and the powder cannot grow any further. While the recruitment rate is not up, the codfish does not exceed 250 levels. ton As noted earlier, that same force was in the years before 400,5500. a ton. There are no pennies, no small interests, for national purposes to cover this. Here, I am not saying not to sacrifice the results that have been managed by the resource, not at all, but perhaps it is time to consider the consequences we see now, whether we may be able to reverse this trend, to listen only to others, but always to the same ones as at least. Compare the evidence, weigh and evaluate it, and get the conclusions most people can have with pleasure. I'm not going on much longer. I was in a meeting with a guy. Business committee the other day. You also hear voices that aren't too happy. There's been talk of discrimination between the areas we're building on, area A, B, C, and D. There's also been criticism that this is one common pot. It went very well last year, and the experiment we started taking them to bed. Business committees, and very well, were successful. There are voices with answers on their hands why it was not yet possible to catch the catcher that was authorized to do so. It is said somewhere to look for an extremely bad weather on virtually all the land that inhibited the resource. So to speak, after a year of the experiment, we've been establishing this. We could have met some more and continued this experiment, having added even more and more to the codfish. That's fine. We'd have had waves if we hadn't given it all up but continued to adapt for one year. The weather may be better this summer than at least Therefore not to spread the claim that the harvest has not been obtained by smooth weather and difficult sea travel. Cruella is known as the miniboat owner's company, at the Cape of the Hornfjord. It describes the need for Coastal fishermen to set their days aside, not limit 12 days within each month, but, for example, 48 days over the whole period. The little boat society Fontur doesn't support the bill. Its review states: Our area of C has called into question the changes made for testing and is now to be fixed by law. - i.e. by having the system in one pot. ▪ The month of Mai is not a good tool hunt, where fish are passed and very slow hunting, the small fish that yields very low prices, and is not practical to fetch. I'm counting on it. The job committee will do even better. You can always change and improve. And even if we're supporting the system -- which I would have liked to have a year of adjustment - we can still see how things are going for the summer, and then we'll just change. I wish our beach fishermen good luck for the summer, hoping that they can enjoy pleasure as I challenge the Council to step outside the box and see all the views and to think if we can, perhaps, increase the resources in cod and so forth, change the trend of life that is developing around the country. It's not enough just to collect cods that eat themselves. We must just look outside the box and have the courage to make decisions, even if not everyone agrees, to try something new.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u43	A respectable president. I repeat what I entered in a talk with a 1st. The Council for the proposed change in fish management legislation: I am amazed at all the limitations in the bill, such as it is a double catcher that exists, a pot for fishing, and a pot for each boat every day, as well as that it can only be fished at the special days of the week, and with a limited number of rolls. I'm at a majority party myself. Preoccupation committees, whose main focus is that there is no legalized arrangements on which there is insufficient information to provide enlightened grounds for the building of permanent legislation. In view of the social systems of fishing, and in view of the vital discussions that often take place in a Senate hall, the situation turns so hard that the interests of those in which we often discuss and us lawyers are simply a problem that is most important in the nation's great interests. It is not a good thing to establish permanent legislation that does not provide basic information when, as in this case, it is possible to acquire it. The publication of the Agency is not completed, and it is therefore premature to establish the legislation permanently. As mentioned earlier, my priorities were focused on the majority opinion, mostly on that point. The report of the past year's experience had not yet been reviewed, and the nature of the situation has not yet been determined, and we simply lack the information that the assessment would have provided to make informed decisions as lawgivers on what might be the best possible arrangement for them. Where the clock is ticking, and the fishing season that the legislation turns to is about to start within a few weeks, I give the emphasis as the head of the river. The employment committee has arranged to complete the case for Easter and to allow access to the ticket. However, there is no good chance that the council is partially set against a wall with a time pressure to finish establishing lasting legislation. This can be added with temporary re-improvement of the changes until the results of the analysis are available. It would be possible to make a suggestion for a permanent purpose. I expect professional and careful management to be held in and above the council and that once the results are presented, the legislation will be reviewed in view of that information. I'm happy to hear what you're thinking. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son to discuss the matter with a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. so that this point can be taken in particular at the moment. A professional health committee. In view of the fact that several members of the European Union are on the committee opinion on this matter in advance and that members of the United States have taken this notice in the public hall today, it must be clear that it is reasonable to assume that this is being taken up on the committee with the intention of improving that point. Similarly, President, I have criticized the large area in this context. Without my going deep into it as far as I did in 1st. this is simply a violation of equality between areas. This is something I would have wanted to see another arrangement on. Our policy should be to reroute the central pot and add extra gases to get it ashore. Then I think that as many people would agree with their share. That wouldn't be such a dramatic jump. I also put a question mark on the secretary's authority to stop hunting. As we have seen, peace has been gained on this subject, and we see a more flexible system here. We see security issues strengthened as well as the safety of little boat owners. That's a good thing. We see far more peace, to say no more, with what happened last year. Commenting on the national policy of subboat owners, it declares support for the bill, the bill goes sea fishing closer to the demand of small boat owners for increased hand - fishing freedom. For the council, Pirata and I have our bill of free hand fishing, so the person here is considered to be the head of the council to complete its bill and soon enter Iceland's legislation on the control of fishing. Coastal fishing was started in 2009. Now we see the next logical step on that subject, and I'm truly glad to hear it. I reiterate my position that the next logical step is our Pirata bill for free hand fishing. The fact that free fishing of small boats will overthrow the fishing grounds is very little reason to look to me for the best we can know. We have an example, e.g. In Norway. It would be very difficult to cause harm by hand fishing. In view of the weather belt we live on this island, as far as I know, there is no danger of harming the tickets by the legislation allowing free hand fishing. Once again, I welcome this logical step. I am ready to grant the wish that has been shown to meet at a meeting on this matter between 2 and 3. I want it to come out again and again that it's the right step, but it's better if you can manage a fishing operation in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u44	Mr. President. I thank you for the excellent discussion here regarding the changes in fishing management. Several points have been presented in the discussion. Unfortunately, there is not a table in the Committee opinion that shows the amount each area had to do with 12 consecutive days but not with a force in each area as it has been over the years. The joy of making that goal in each fishing trip in areas where there was certainly a chance of making more rowing, but that was not to say that men would row for 16 days, even though the rest was not finished in those areas. Of course there were things, especially the weather. I have information about last summer. All over the summer of 2018, with an average of 655 pounds [655 kg] a day of cooling, I ask members of the council to notice it. The maximum amount is about 650 kg that can be brought ashore every day. Since the beginning of coastal fishing, there has been no greater daylight. I'm stressing this because there's been concern that a certain area is being affected but that there has been no greater daylight average since the beginning of the coastal fishing season than when the 12 - day system was installed last year. Last year, the yields of coastal fishing boats averaged 17.8 tons, 1.3 tons more than in 2017. The number of boats was 229 with a power of more than 20 tons over the summer, i.e. the number of boats with more than 20 tons over the summer. There are 24 more boats than the previous years. This simply underscores what has been said in a committee program, the idea that people could row during the days when pleasure was a good one, the possibility of a good fishery, and a higher catch. It matters. Certainly there were fewer days in area A. If you look back in time, then there will be more days in region A as time goes on. We're here to talk about equality. This area was far behind other areas in terms of the volume of the area in order to go on the same number of fishing trips as in other areas. Now I believe that the equality has been increased between areas, as well as human possibilities, to get as much profit in each calm as well as the best wage in terms of price. I think it's very important that we put this bill into law now. There's been good experience with coastal fishing, experience that was good last summer. The majority of those who came to shore fishing and the largest organization, the national union of small boat owners, recommend that we establish the arrangement in legislation. The work board has agreed that the Agency should now ensure that the review of the two summers will be made and that we can bring in corrections and reviews as appropriate in the case of the results of this assessment. However, it is important that the waters of a beach fishing project and our building on that foundation have been established. It does not necessarily mean that we will if we have it back temporarily. It is not by any means possible to grasp this matter in the same general terms as it has been achieved, among the stakeholders and members of the council, from groups, so it is a fixed line dance. I think it's good to land the stocks that have fallen into port, but to aim for the rest of the country, we can work on increasing equality and strengthen coastal fishing and watch that we can have the flexibility in the system needed and that fishing is different from land level, that we can adjust it to the possibility that there could be some flexibility between months or statues in the period, these 48 days, or extended according to each area. This will be done well on the job committee. But it is vital that we keep building on a solid foundation. That is why I am stressing that we have legalized what is now, for the fact that we are entering a 12-day system is not entirely critical, but we want people to see things in these matters. It's a lot different what it's after land, as it goes. But when there's more to this from a democratic ideal organization such as the United States Association of small boat owners, it is urgent to secure what we've come together about, and then we can build on top of it. Then I think the lawgiver should listen to it and finish what we have now and continue working together to do it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u45	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct a change in mail service law, No. 19/2002, with subsequent changes (reports and electronic transmissions), from the Environmental and Transport Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and was assigned to Särf Þór Gunnsteinsson, the Guðbjörg of Sigurðardóttir and Unnur Elfa Hallsteinsdóttir from the Department of Transport, Ingimundur Sigurpálsson and Tryggvi Þorsteinsson from Iceland, Hrafnkell Gíslason, Geirsson and Friðrik Pétursson from the Post and Communications Department, Stefánsson from the Society's Team, and Breki Karlsson and Einarsson Bjarni from the Neyturist Association. The committee received reviews from the Post and Communication Institute, the Neythal Association, the Trade and Service Association, the Contestance Control and the Professional Society. The bill suggests changes to the postal legislation, including That the operator will be allowed to post a deposit for foreign mail e-mails which will meet the actual cost of shipments, as well as changes in which Icelandic mail law is preferrent to international mail bonds. This will take into account unsurpassed real - estate costs for foreign shipments regardless of the rules for end-of-state contracts. It was noted at a meeting of the Commission that it is necessary to deal with the losses made by Iceland it would have been necessary to carry because of foreign mails and to make appropriate legal adjustments so that the company would be able to collect bills from foreign mail recipients to cover real expenses, including the actual cost. The processing, possession and distribution of the shipments. The committee was told that according to the Iceland E-mail report. Prior to 2017, the loss of the EU military and communications agency due to foreign mail was a result of competition in the international service for a total of $71 million and was mainly due to adverse endpoints. The international network business is increasing. The committee feels that it is important to control the increasing loss of mail because of such shipments and to ensure that the loss does not fall on public services funds or on government funds. The government should not be paid with foreign mail because low endpoints do not cover real costs and accept the committee's need to respond to the situation. Then the Commission points out that there is a significant negative environmental impact on the number of microspheres flying over half of the globe by using a hydrocarbon link. The Commission was told that the income of the Marketing Authorisation Holder from the end-of-the-art fees under the processing costs and distribution of only about 30 to 35% of the cost of shipments derived from Asia. Incomes of shipments coming from Western countries were below about 70% of their cost. Iceland funded ohf. had not felt that the funds were permitted by the current law to collect charges from the recipients of foreign messengers in order to meet costs that are not covered by low endpoints. The Commission's rights to the target of this bill are aimed at improving the loss of the current employment Marketing Authorisation Holder, Iceland St. o.o., because of the adverse endpoints recommended in international conventions. The Treaty is divided into states by geographical areas, depending on how developed countries are considered to be in accordance with the WHO assessment at any given time. Substitutions take into account this regionalisation and are lower in developing countries, which are consistent with messages from Asia. The endpoints are higher in developed countries. The loss of the Marketing Authorisation Holder, therefore, varies according to the foreign state or region of the mail. The Commission stresses that foreign mail currency should reflect this unimproved real cost of the labour of the marketing authorisation holder resulting from insufficient end-of-the-end fees. The return should take into account the source of the shipment if it affects the unsurpassed actual cost of the company's Marketing Authorisation Holder. The Commission has a right not to use this charge to cover any cost other than the one directly involved in the foreign mail. The loss of Iceland's e-mail e-mail. Because of other factors, this price cannot be met. The committee emphasizes that before making a donation, it will be clearly presented. It is urgent that consumers, in an easy way, familiarize themselves with the exact amount of money they pay for their foreign mail shipments and that they recognize which service is paid each time. The 3rd issue says 4th. Section 16. legal is authorised by the Post and Communication Center to require that the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder be informed of costs based on their registrations. As noted at the Committee meeting, this is done on the basis of a lawsuit or as an initiative check by the Agency and may take a considerable amount of time. To ensure the initial payment of the currency is based on the actual cost, the Commission proposes it in 4 mg. Section 16. The Act that the Marketing Authorisation Holder should inform the Post and Communication Office of the cost of foreign mail fees no later than five days before it takes effect. Therefore, the post-authority and communication agency must have in advance monitored that the registry will take into account the non-impliatory physical cost that the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder assumes to be derived from local mails. It's about execution and law, it's like: It's already 8 p.m. The bill already gains the law. If the bill is legal, the Marketing Authorisation Holder will be allowed to collect a new price for consumers. In view of the Commission's opinion, this will be presented to consumers in a clear way so that they can have the cost in relation to the purchase of the site. Therefore, the Commission suggests that the law will be effective about a month after it is accepted, as the Marketing Authorisation Holder allows an opportunity to introduce its plans for the changed currency and the pressures of the budget, and consumers have the opportunity to reevaluate their purchases or even to cancel them if necessary. In view of the views on legal rights, the committee also considers it necessary to state clearly which mail is going to reach. So the committee adds the laws to sections 4 and 5. The law of the law on foreign e-mails stamped by date in foreign lands after midnight on the day of the law. In view of the above views, the Committee suggests that the bill will be accepted by the change to Article 4. and a new letter, b-joint, and to level 8. the bill, i.e. the validation principle, shall be May 15, 2019. Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was absent from the case and signed under a warning outlined in a talk, in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Jón Þór Þorvaldsson was absent from the case. Under the committee, Jón Gunnarsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, in advance, wrote to Karl Hjaltason undāri Sævarsdóttir Anna, Páll Valur Björnsson, Una Hildardóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. A respectable president. This case has moved us to take a short time here at the council. At the beginning of the Commission planned to give themselves longer time, but there was indications and wishes that this matter was urgent in view of the possibility that, according to the information presented to the Committee, the loss of Iceland's mail per month due to this finding is at least Fifty million. K. ... ifthat'sall. So here's a lot of money for the company. So I would like to thank the members of the committee in particular for their cooperation in this case. First, we joined together and set up an extra meeting at the Committee for this matter, and we received the visitors who were thought to be most important, and then cut short the notice period accordingly. Is it not bad to say that, of course, people have some comments and questions about the mail operation? That is something we know from recent weeks and months and even longer. There is another issue bigger than that, which deals with the entire business of the company, and we hope that its payment will be completed before Congress ends in spring or summer. I think that I can say that all clients and clients in themselves have agreed with the conclusion here, perhaps least based on the fact that the state that owns this company, the postman ohf, is infringing the trade that is being done through the Internet in competition with other trades in the country. In the end, consumers always end up falling apart and making a store more comfortable here in the country. In view of this, in spite of discussions about other activities and related matters involving the mail, members of the committee agreed to handle the matter in this way, and I reiterate my gratitude to the committee and to the council for putting this matter in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u46	Mr. President. I thank you for your background, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, for his review of the case. It is now that mail services are part of a core service in all developed countries and its importance, especially in the rural and rural regions of this country, so populated as ours. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator is sure that I don't understand that at first this bill has no effect on Iceland's Ministries and, secondly, it also has no effect on the density of the current service in the country, which is generally called the number of distribution days. These are the questions I have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u47	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator that this has no effect on the services, this has no effect on the distribution and other services of the mail. First of all, this is a marked currency designed solely to cover the additional cost of mail because of increased online shopping. Like all other nations, we face great challenges in mail service. All letters and such have been greatly reduced, and we have seen that there has been a reduction in the number of mail days and service. That is something we need to face in the future. Some countries have even. As far as public management is concerned, letters, all go electronically, and steps have been taken in the same region. But it's a very special problem, too, that we face in rural areas, because as we know, especially those who have been in the country, the mail will come to the bridge, as it was called. Today, the mail is often much more valuable because people are ordering their own parts and all kinds of other products through Internet stores. It is true that in fact, in fact, the soaring people march through the countryside and simply steal their lips from the cocks of the bridges. This has been shown to include In the local community, there is a concern that needs to be addressed, and it is part of the solutions we need to implement in the mail service in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u48	President. Thank you for your history lesson on bridges. Most of them are blessed, and boxes are accepted, but you can certainly steal from boxes as well. I thank you for your detailed and meaningful comments, but in view of the fact that the night had come. A senator said more than I asked that, which is not so common here, I wonder if he cannot agree with me about the importance of keeping the service on, for the sake of the team, and not going on distribution days, finding further ways, e.g. in the urban area where most people are walking almost at the next post office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u49	A respectable president. -
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u50	Hv. Mr. President would like to ask the senator to wait for the end of a presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u51	The stories you hear in calmness are not violent at all. President. This action is taken and clear for everyone. That just threw me a little bit off the track. What I was going to say. A senator, is that I can totally agree on that point. I believe the public service is very important and that the state guarantees such distribution. It's a quality of living that can't afford any further impairment. I also want to say that there is a misunderstanding that a post office is at every corner in Reykjavík. That's a long time ago. The number of these has been shrinking and decreasing. But I think it's a basic one. In fact, I believe there is a much more practical way to do so in the future. I would like to point out that in the countryside, large parts of the year drive school cars, milk cars every day of the year, and if this service could be matched by searching for the most practical means of life, I believe that this service could become even better and more efficient. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for the Commission's opinion and the whole committee for having won this case quickly and carefully. But I would like to say just one thing about what was discussed in the previous answers. I think the mail is delivered three times a week here in the capital area, can't it fit? [[Up front.]] Two or three times a week. For my part, it could be quite less. I hate mail, and I see no reason for the present century to be constantly e - mailing someone with the equivalent of the cost of carbon and cost. On the other hand, when it comes to getting packages, and other things, you probably have to go to the post office, and then I feel sorry for those who live away from the post office. That's why I'd like to see our mail service jump a little. Then I'll come to the question to what? A senator: Was there any discussion with the bill on how this decision brought us into the future? Like what? A senator entered, of course, the big bill, so to speak, about the mail. I think there's every reason why we're taking the mail service here in Iceland for a counter-importation. Then I'm not referring to any kind of minimization of services, but primarily to the need for an institution belonging to the State, though it is an ohf., who handles all this service all over the country, or whether there is a more practical solution. That was the first question. I think it is very important that it is stated in the committee that this charge is not used to deliver a stream of costs other than the one directed by the foreign mail, i.e. not to meet losses due to other factors at this price. Finally, the question is, Was it discussed why this idea, or bill, appeared today? Because we've seen this loss run into a bit of a time, and these China shipments, as they have been named, are, of course, involved, but not all of them. So I wondered if this discussion has been in the system for a long time or if it is new. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u53	A respectable president. You're about to get in your mailbox and get your hands on the windows, not the same spasm that they used to do here at all. But I can totally agree with the views that happened. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, that the environment has changed dramatically. Of course, it must be our future goal as a community in the big context of trying to get it as much into an electronic form as possible. I believe that the state should go ahead with a fine example and that many companies have picked it up. Somehow, however, this services must be guaranteed to the citizens. That's what the State's job is to do. This is especially important in rural areas, where there is more to go to attend either postal or other services. So, of course, it has to be taken into consideration, and I don't give a discount on my ideas. But I believe that there will be a more practical means of searching when this is going to be the market. I agree completely with the view that happened to him. A senator, I believe that the operation should not be in the hands of the State, to run a business around this future, but primarily to be the government's task to ensure this service to the cities. Another mail loss is a concern. In the changing environment, cases have developed in a way that makes this business more difficult, that gives an eye. It is clear that this remuneration - and we guarantee it by obliging the Rapporteur to make the initiative consideration of the case. The matter came up sometime during autumn days from the Ministry, but it takes time to do something so basic. [[The president calls.]] This case may be unpleasant late forward, but we will finish it quickly and well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's clear answer in this regard is, in fact, my question: Why not sooner? Why not some year ago? That's what I'm wondering. You see, I meant that we were entirely bound by the laws or regulations of the International E - mail Union that classify China, if I understand correctly, as less developed states, and hence, were less expensive. In fact, it means that Western countries pay down signals from the competitive Chinese nation when it comes to this kind of shipment. So I wondered, " Is this the way in which more countries have gone? ' Is this, then, a new way to avoid what these approved conduct of the International e - mail have put us in? I repeat what I said earlier, and it's good to hear that. A senator agrees with me, and I hope that it is the spirit of the committee, that although this service is certainly important and we are to offer it throughout the country, it does not necessarily have to be on the shoulders of the State. The Kingdom might form the invitation to this service to a private publisher.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u55	It is the Ministry's assessment that the law of the land goes beyond the international commitments that we have agreed to with our membership in the Internationalmail Union. Other countries have followed that way. The formal way to do this is to make a request for annuity from these rules at the annual meeting or the main meeting of this international organization. This meeting is not held every year. He will be held next year, and Iceland will there explain its stand and its warning, but it is felt that the legislation of the Generalis will go beyond this international commitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u56	A respectable president. One simple question that says that this price should not depend on any other cost. What was the loss of Icelandic e-mail last year, and what do you expect about the loss of Icelandic e-mails this year for these packages?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u57	A respectable president. If I remember that number correctly, the estimated loss plus/minus was 600 million a year, with an average of 50 million plus/minus a month. Every year, I can't remember every year of my loss from Iceland. I suppose that's what. A senator can look it up, somewhere. But these were the figures from the Ministry and the mail of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u58	A respectable president. The reason I ask is that if the price is not to be paid for any other cost, we will likely have to know exactly what that cost is. During the Commission and the visitor, Iceland was able to say exactly what the losses were. However, they could say about that. No matter how much rhymes with the answers we received when a loan was granted for last year's events, Iceland was unable to answer exactly how much the losses of such shipments were due to the proportion of total losses that the company is having in trouble with. It seems a little difficult for a witness to see that this charge has not been paid for any other loss than just by these shipments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u59	A respectable president. Now we were sitting down. A senator, as far as I can remember, most if not all the committee meetings we held out about the case. It showed that it was difficult for the committee to check some kind of open mail for that relationship without having full confidence that only the fee under the requested shipments was collected. Therefore, the Commission came to this conclusion and struck that defence, making the changes in the law that the mail accessor, the mail monitor, makes an opportunity check and should be obliged to cross and establish this exact point, that the payment will be solely due to the costs and not to the costs of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, for an excellent review of the case, to to tore up a committee opinion presented, and a change in proposal agreed upon by the committee. I would like to review the matter, as I would like to sign in advance, which would be more inclined to intertwin these opinions that came up in the discussion of the committee during the short time she had. I kind of have to start by bringing some double money and going to the Committee, because it's the same committee opinion. It shows that the Commission's right to the amount recommended in the bill is aimed at improving the losses of Icelanders'claims to be due to the unfavourable endpoints recommended in the international mail agreement. In the contract, the countries are divided into geographical areas, depending on how developed countries are considered to be in accordance with the WHO assessment at any given time. So it is higher in developed countries and the loss of the core Marketing Authorisation Holder, i.e. Iceland, therefore, varies from country to country or from region to region of the mail. In their work, the Commission stressed that reimbursement, the required currency, due to foreign mails, should reflect this unsurpassed actual cost of management by the Marketing Authorisation Holder in different areas. The return should therefore take into account the source of the shipment if it affects the unsurpassed actual cost of the company's businesses, as it is said. And the committee insisted that this charge should not be used to cover the costs of any other than those that can be directed from these foreign mails. In other words, Iceland's losses due to other factors cannot be met at this price. This is the last reason why I thought he was needed. As noted at the conference of the environment and transport committee with the Post and Communication Commission, the Agency has either entered the financial bases of Iceland's e-mail on the basis of a case or in the context of its own initiative study. That work may take considerable time. The nominees agreed that to ensure at first that the currency, or money, will be based on actual costs laid down in the law that Iceland's bank should make an mail and communications agency account for costs on the basis of the bill no later than five days before it takes effect. And as the chairman came in earlier, the post office and communications agency shall thus have the initiative to carry, in advance, monitor that the register will take into account the non-improved real cost resulting from these foreign mails. In this regard, the Environment and Transport Committee tried to match the views of those who have warned of the risk that consumers taking advantage of shipments from abroad, under the cover of this adjustment, would also pay another bridge in Iceland's operations. Now the company's affairs have been quite intense for a winter discussion, especially after it was found that the company needed an emergency loan from a government fund. It is clear that most people were surprised by the seriousness of the company's situation by the time they got on speakers. The company would, in effect, be out of credit, no longer have credit for its bank, and it would have to be the means by which the government funds would be paid, much less, as shown in the discussion then. This is a government business, which operates on the private rights of the postal service, but it is also quite extensive in a particular competitive manner. Therefore, it is very important that there is a good separation between the company's private rights and then the competitive business and, as a government fund has to run in a way that has been described here under management circumstances, is inevitable. This case we're discussing here and handling, if similar, is to some degree such an opinion because the cost base is not available. In recent years the Society has spent about 3 billion dollars. in investments, including in various competitive efforts to try to support the business, but those investments seem to have failed to produce the desired results. On the contrary, because of insufficient separation of private rights and competitive conflict, the company's business offers a level of complaint, an accusation of subjugation, and so forth. The government has not adequately addressed the underlying problem of the society. There seems to be a substantial lack of control of the operation, and somehow the feeling is that the ball was constantly cast like a hot potato between parties, between the Ministry of finance, the Department of Transport and the Post and Communications Agency. And while Iceland was on the run. It is also reason to consider whether the Society's self - explanation for the reasons of the lost one is fully valid. It has been criticized by rivals that the Society stands in organized subheadings, including the U.S. has been repeatedly complained to a competitive authority. Therefore, it is extremely important to find out where the underlying problem really lies, what is the real cause of this difficult situation in Iceland. The aim of a special administrative hearing is now under way that the wishes of the General Commission which will be carefully considered at the root of this business problem, but the National Review has just pointed out that the economic problems of Iceland's espionage are not fully understood, and whether the problem is due to competitive management or private work. How the company is asked for separation between competitiveness and private rights. Is it clear that the private rights have not been subjugated a competitive business? During these days, it is only natural to wonder why this response to the loss of foreign mail is not simply part of that large bill. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation, secretary of the post office, has answered this question to be asked here at the Hall of Congress that long after the bill concerning the full reexamination of the mail service was ready and reached the council, i.e. last fall, a call from Iceland has been made to make pack shipments from abroad cause this problem, and it would be a call to fail with this bill that is being taken for immediate treatment throughout the council. At a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee with Iceland's Presidents on this matter last week, it was observed that there had certainly been a significant increase in the number of mails from Asia. That increase would have taken place in the past few years, and it was reduced in some ways during the past year. My guess is why this proposal is now made, which is due to this bill, but not to some year earlier, is as good as nobody else, but it might be imagined that harsh criticism of society's business, and on the soft government, which is constantly running under the backs of business problems without making the rigid requirements of tolerance and resisting, playing in. It certainly is positive that by this reaction they will pay those who make up the expense, but government funds do not have to pay again and again. I think we can all agree that we don't want the government funds, i.e. Icelandic taxpayers are paying down foreign post shops to compete with domestic shops. I think we can all agree that it's not normal. The question remains to be considered: Is this really a currency that reflects the actual cost of these shipments and nothing else? If these changes are necessary, they are oddly made. They should have appeared when this loss began in earnest. There is also something that needs to be taken into account that this is not only about the loss of shipments from developing countries, so - called China shipments known to many people, but also from Western countries, although that loss is certainly considerably less. Ask: Is it a loss because foreign mail services consider the cost of Iceland too high and do not want to pay for it? You see, this has been a very expensive distribution system for the benefit of competition, as we know. This discussion will clearly be made when the overall letter to the postal services will be discussed here during the conference treatment. But this is important, and it is very important that these laws are not allowing Iceland the best possible way to pay in the future for bad investments and poor business of the past. But we need to respond to the situation today, and the key is to ensure that the cost base is correct and clear. A review of this bill by the Nanna Association shows that they fear that the authority to add additional costs to foreign shipments could lead to the rise in prices within the country. They criticize that governments are going to go through a change of law without having the necessary calculation. They say little about it, then, that with a special deposit for foreign messengers, consumers will be put more on consumers than at the expense of giving the service, they simply miss calculations to support claims on the loss of the mail. The changes proposed by the Environment and Transport Committee are steps in the right direction. The question remains: Why was this expense base not prepared and submitted to representatives of the Environment and Transport Committee at the time of this work? Finally, I'd like to mention that consumer organizations and various other members have given other ways to stop the loss of the work in this case, see that the I.U.S.A. has reexamined the definition of Member States. The organization is being referred to as identifying China as a developing state which includes an adverse exchange of post-marketing fees for the local labour services. I'll take my heart to that point. I know that other Western countries are looking into this. I know we're gonna be there, but I expect this ball to continue by the Icelandic authorities, and that's for real. Finally, I will support this case, but also speak for it and work on the progress of an overall review of the post-mail law to be taken into this opinion and the tips that have been tore up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u61	A respectable president. I'm having a little trouble with this bill, not because I don't think the buyers are supposed to pay all the cost they're supposed to do, and that's kind of where the knife is in the cow. The International E - mail account is one of the oldest UN institutions, and it is actually reflected in the problem, that is, developing countries and not developing countries, which are just no longer true. It may have been true when the agency was set up, but it's not anymore. The nations under that hat, developing countries, who do not have to pay as high annulls as possible are large enough that they actually prevent the price changes that reflect the reality of what they are today. That's why we're gonna end up here. But on this side, the European bison says that the end-of-the-limit charge is not good enough, calling ratios like 30% and 70%, but at the same time, it can't tell exactly what is missing at the end of the cost. When it's due to set an extra delivery fee to cover what is missing on the end-point fee, I wonder, " Is it really not just an additional market tax, rather than an additional amount, and how it plays into our contracts? ' Although we can set certain laws, visitors have told us that we are in a legal gray area until we can make some notice. In fact, it is also said that other countries, such as Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, are not completely aware of how they might be used in advance. Then there would still be questions about this gray legal area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The young lady Leví Gunnarsson's son is very grateful for the question. I'm going to start by acknowledging it here and now he comes to the empty cabin in my house regarding this definition. It's a complicated matter, and I'll assume that in a discussion on the general reexamination of mail laws, this will be examined very closely. I know, too, and it's true that the mail services of other Western countries are about to get into this. What upsets me is that at the beginning of the work, the Committee has done a lot of work in this case, although not many days, the facts are laid on such evidence as that we do not achieve 70% of the cost of calling from the Asian countries or the underdeveloped countries, which are so classified as missing 30% at the cost of Western shipments. Yet, in the beginning, one price, some kind of equation price, was spoken of. True, this changed in the treatment of the committee, and that is well - known, but it does not directly increase your confidence that the real cost has been accurately considered. That's how we get back to it. I'm not going to do anything for men, but when things are complicated, decisions are not entirely correct. We're simply a little there with this case. That is why, though, I am satisfied with this conclusion reached by the committee and this adjustment in this brief period of time and with the greatest satisfaction of all. I can't believe we're gonna use the time to get into the loop of this and understand what's going on here. Although this is not a large amount for each person, it was also covered that this amount is high for individual shipments and can make the difference, and the total amount is quite high, by hundreds of millions, is high up to a billion if this does not affect the number of shipments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u63	A respectable president. That's exactly what it's all about, it's complicated, and we've got a short time to win this thing. We got some good information on the situation, but they were all wrapped up in all sorts of doubts and about figures, etc. When it is suggested that this price should only depend on the cost of, as the secondary endpoint fees, and the figures are about numbers, I'm a little careful compared to the previous experience with these matters around the loan. Then the answers were not clear and are not yet clear, so I am more cautious. If it were this unique case and it wasn't a loan and it wasn't that story about the inaccuracies, then I would think it was a very good solution. I still think it's a good solution, but I don't think it's accurate enough, especially because of the time it's been put in for further analysis. They're not here yet. That is why I doubt that the extra endpoints will depend on these costs, at least not exactly. I don't know which side of the zero it falls, I don't think it's going to be at the zero in each shipment. It may be all right, in general it doesn't remember many crowns, I don't know, but I wonder which side of the question should be about the price, whether we should be more careful in raising the price, or whether it should be overrated in any way. At least I'd recommend caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u64	Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions and speculations again. I think it's a subject for the next few days and weeks. I tell myself with accuracy that I understand the need for someone to have a table to hold in order to appreciate this. The more important it is, if this becomes an ongoing situation, I mean for some years as world conditions change, that it will be adjusted. But most important of all, I feel that the cost is charged where expenses are available and people don't take some amount of money. I mention, for example, the information that made it clear that because of the low value of any shipment that comes from China, this amount of charge, 100 k, will have the largest impact. It will likely cause them to lose their deliveries, but with less than proportional impact on Western shipments, there will be no impact. Then we've already got a cost gate. If this is to be the case, would it not be possible to reduce the price? So these calculations are very important, but there's no one but us who'll be on that toe. I think we'll have quite a discussion on these matters, both within the committee and in the Hall of Congress, before we'll be happy with the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank the manager of the case. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, for review of committee opinion and projection with bill to correct a change in mail law. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Katrín Frirduk's son, Friðriksson, for swerveing on issues of opinion that came to the work of the committee. In many things, I agree completely with her, although I feel that I have a different view of things, but there is something that we will explain more about work for the next few weeks, as she came in. I'd also like to thank you for your cooperation with the Committee in promoting opinions in a short period of time and to see what is really the most important thing about the case. I'm just going through the four things that I think are most important and that I feel I have managed to reach, at least in part, to make changes and to the Commission opinion. The bill suggests changing the postal law to ensure that the mail can pay a real cost to deliver shipments from abroad. Those who post a package abroad, wherever there is in the world, pay whatever price is required to carry the package from abroad and bring it to the recipient. It is called the end-of-the-art fee in the international mail agreement. So at the beginning of the discussion, we wondered if the concept really matters. My understanding of work was that it didn't matter in itself. It's the end-of-the-art fee in the international mail agreement, but in reality it's just a payment thing that ensures that the total cost is at hand, so the terms are not everything. I'm sure the person who orders a product is under the cost of transporting it, that the taxpayers who may choose to make all their purchases within the country, and that they pay the transportation expenses through the store. So, of course, it's also about the competition of Icelandic commerce, et cetera. This is also a huge environment, since a number of small particles flying more than halfway around the globe leave a completely amazing carbon track in which the packaging is often more extensive and often more extensive than the product itself. In times when we are reducing waste and increasing our use of it, we do not need that kind of stuff, many of them. But for the four points I'm going to go right over. First, it should be clear that the amount of pay should be taken into account where the shipment comes from, for in the international e - mail agreement, the sender pays different according to which country his product is mailed. Therefore, this must be totally benefited from the registration that will be established on the basis of this adjustment. Second, there is transparency in accounting. There we must rely on the Rapporteur, who is an email and communications agency, who is able to gain access to all the data and books of the mail than the general members or the general public can get. One of the steps we take to change the law here is to assign an email and communications agency to take out the expense ground, the basis for the registration that will be set. It is extremely important that the post - communications and communications agency be monitored for the impact of subsequent changes on the costs and costs of the cost. Third, the point is that of the consumer. When the consumer decides to do business and order a product from abroad or asks someone to send a package abroad, he must be absolutely available and available to consumers at the cost of receiving the product here. This may have to be some type of database that can be looked up according to the size of a product, where it is coming from, and other factors that affect, at any rate, it must be fully able to see the cost of receiving the product. Fourth, what is really clear in the treatment of the Committee, the clear definition of law. It is clear that the law will take effect on May 15, and it is clear that the laws of the law apply to foreign mails labeled by date-tips abroad after midnight in the day when the law will take effect. We have a lead-in period until mid May, and it is of course important that Iceland uses the time to present changes and provide transparent information to consumers. Finally, I would like to introduce to you what has only been discussed, whether this is a permanent change or not. As the committee presented it is very likely that there will be significant changes in global mail services, including with international mail agreements changing because more and more countries are responding, making comments to the agreements they are, and taking similar measures, not as measures, but comparable to those being taken here. I support the bill as it is, but I agree with the importance of continuing to work on this matter, and of course it will be a further consideration for the payment of the committee's bill on mail services.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-92.u66	A respectable president. As I've come to answer these questions, I have no doubt the need to accept this bill or the solution as it is completed. But I do not agree with the committee's opinion, not because of its contents, but because of certain doubts that I have about other factors related to this, such as That if this cost, this additional cost, an additional cost, is only to cover real cost, Iceland should definitely be able to explain how much loss is due to these shipments. This has not been possible for Iceland. If it were just for this bill, I might not have just as much doubt about the surveillance of the post and communications agency, but because this is a repeated case from the years of the year and for the year when Iceland was given a loan and Iceland was unable to answer the same question at the time, and now several months later the answer is not yet made, I don't see that it is easy to find out what the cost behind this is, and therefore it can't be expressed on the basis of the only cost that comes with this shipment, but not any other cost. Therefore, I would advise careful in the amount of this price. Of course, it should be obvious to all, of course, to a buyer to pay all the cost of shipments and not to be subsidies on such shipments. So it must be necessary for some transparency in the way the charges work, how they are calculated. That's exactly how many other fees are collected, i.e. Business fees, tax fees and stuff like that. The consumer groups listed an entire pile of extra expenses that can fit into different categories and categories. And like the introduction on these shipments and on Iceland's websites and other locations, e.g. Also at customs, it's very hard to find out, when I order something from outside, what the fees are in Iceland. I don't complete all my fees when I buy my product, even though there's mail delivery and management in my account. When I buy e.g. on a Web site in the country, there are additional expenditures for management and other items that are not listed when I buy the product. Rather, it's very difficult to find out what the real cost is after all. Having all these various expenditures, fees, and so on, I feel that I am motivated to maintain the purpose of the currency instead of staging - instead of creating a mechanical factory that automatically pumps out the packages when it is reached. It would be possible to have a more flexible opening period where there would be no need for us to be there. Very recently, on April 1, the pay period in the capital area was reduced to post office places, and it is no longer possible to leave when you are going to work to pick up a package, since it does not open until the end of the day. 10. That's not too much fun. After all, I took note of the two points involved, i.e. On the one hand, not being able to explain the actual cost of shipments and the comment that the Ministry stated we were legally in a gray area. However, the Ministry felt that it was all right, for we were not in a gray area in which to live up to our commitments to other countries. It didn't change anything. However, we are paying in addition to other countries, which could be interpreted in some way as to pay from the existing agreements. But this would be complicated, and it could not be explained precisely which legal gray areas would be there, until some prior notice could be made at the world's main meeting next year, so that we would be at least in that gray area legally paid. Whether something's going to happen, there wasn't a way to answer that. Because of these factors, I do not agree with the committee, not because I believe the solution or other is wrong, but because of the lack of answers to these questions that I thought would clearly have to answer to to resolve the matter. I just wanted to make this observation. I believe otherwise, of course, the need for a buyer to pay all the cost of delivery. No one should question what the right price is and whether it depends on the contracts we are part of in this legal gray area, that's what I mean.
