ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u1	At a meeting of the welfare committee yesterday, September 12, 2018, Helga Vala Helgadóttir was elected president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u2	It is a meeting between the presidents and members of the council that a meeting meeting can last longer than at the end of the year. 20, i.e. until the second part of the discussion about budget 2020 is over. Obviously, it will not be before that time. 20 tonight. Ministers now recognize their language groups and participate in discussions about them. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Ministers have five minutes to go. Then a member of Congress can direct a inquiry to the minister and have two minutes to do so twice. However, members of Congress may decide that two members of the Parliament will speak from a category for just two minutes each. Those answers will not be allowed. The order of the Ministers will be as follows: Prime Minister, Special Affairs, Industrial and Neony Ministers, Justice Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Transport and Foreign Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Social Affairs and Finally Marine and Agriculture Ministers. At the end of the discussion, financial and economic ministers have as much as ten minutes to complete the discussion, and they will then be entitled to respond to an evacuation so that representatives of all government groups can respond to a minister's speech. The president also wants to direct them to a clear conclusion. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers that they respect deadlines. It is a long day ahead of us, so the president will not be very tolerant if the session is conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u3	Mr. President. I'm not going to take advantage of my introduction to this discussion in particular about the seminaries of the Ministry, but I will, of course, respond to any questions that might arise. Councilmen on that sort of litigation. There is generally little change in the budgets of the Ministry of Presidency except for the construction of the Council that may arise in the discussion, if I know the reason. Councilmen are correct. However, I would like to use my time here to discuss the big lines in the budget bill in general. Of course, it is based on the budget adopted in spring before 2020,2024, and a revised financial policy in which my evaluation and the government is that we are dealing wisely with the challenges of the Icelandic economy. Here's what we got. Council members of yesterday's discussions discussed a number of the criteria of the bill, i.e. On what basis. This bill is based on the Habitat projections of May that are the data we're based on, the basis on which we build all our plans. I can't agree that this bill is based on over-convincing assumptions. We simply base on the professional data that we have that I consider to be a much stronger foundation than the feelings of any individual senators, with full respect for all of them. The economic situation in Iceland is strong, and I think that if we look at economic management over the last few decades, we've been achieving significant improvements in different governments when it comes to supporting government capital, money policy, and employment markets. We've adopted a new set of laws on public financial matters. We have lived in the best interests of our lives by making significant changes that will benefit us when we face challenges such as those we face today. We've seen how the money policy and the work market play together in the wake of spring-signed contracts. In the wake of the shocks that occurred here, in the case of hairy and air traffic failure, the Sullab has reduced its control height by a percentage in a relatively short period of time, so growth has never been lower, the main growth of the Sensian Bank. It's a huge interest in the public in the country, but it also shows that the economy is working, and I think it's a key. The biographies are based on new conditions in a collective contract that I also believe will be successful, where remuneration is guaranteed to be a sharer of interest. This is a new approach, and, of course, we will see how it will turn out, but there is no question that all those who made a statement about the agreements, whether professional or government, will live up to the expectations they are made. We will have a regular meeting with representatives of the workforce on how the progress of the situation is in the 45 procedures introduced by the government to biographies. Then I'd also like to mention that we focus on increasing public investments to counter the laxness of the economy. The next year's budget is about 80 billion dollars. and they have increased to an absolute value of 27 billion. every year since 2017. This is the right time to act on public investments when it comes to economic management, as well as because we have a considerable cumulative need when it comes to government investments. It is enough to include the transport issues discussed by members of the Parliament but also an important entrance, such as a new Hospital. In the last minute, I want to mention the improvements in social matters specifically linked to biographies, i.e. prolongation of obstetrics, child-replacement rates and, of course, the tax system changes that are also huge biographies, where we are implementing a three-stage tax system to ensure greater justice in the tax system, so that the limits of the scale follow comparable to those produced by inflation and inflation. It's a novelty, and it's a big deal if we want to ensure the balance of the tax system. In a similar way, the insurance bill, which is just a very important operation into the economic situation where we are creating the economy an increased amount of space to deal with the economy and to benefit best from SMEs. I may not have much more time to discuss these matters, but I would like to say that whole over the years, I believe that this financial bill is a rationalization in the economy, a balance between key aspects of money policy, government and labour markets, while it includes clear measures to ensure long - term economic and social stability. I reiterate that I believe the Icelandic economy is very equipped to meet the challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u4	Mr. President. In recent years, government spending has increased tremendously, especially during the period of this government, as in fact, why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee pointed out in the Morning Press a few days ago. No one can see the growth in expenses better than in the Ministry of Presidency itself. This government set out with a budget of 50 percent increase in donations made to the Ministry of Presidency and is now introduced to an increase of less than 40% between years to one Ministry, to the Ministry's Presidency. V.E.G. The prime minister is preparing to build a new concrete box behind the Council and will no doubt feel that it will excuse some of this expansion, but, of course, there will always be some explanation in all the problems. What remains is that no Ministry will increase its expenses as much as the Ministry of Presidency. It even does. ... withan unprecedented increase in employees. Recently, the answer came from the highest. Prime Minister on the growth of the staff of the Ministry showing nearly one third of the workers in a few years. I don't think there are other examples of growing as rapidly as in this Ministry or anyone else, at least. not in the latter time. In addition to all this increase, the current government has promoted all political assistants and has long since reached the roof, using all the sources that it may find to increase the number of helpers. The end is that this government is primarily the system and itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the comment. Though I know what to do. A senator clings to rational thinking, as I think he has called his own political opinion, I did not get a completely logical connection with the last sentence. A senator about the government being about himself and the system. It is true that a great increase in expenses has been made and announced in the history of this government because the need was cumulative. Or is it? A senator making comments to the increased contributions we see in transportation, health, education, and research? All of this is an enormously important group of languages that truly had to be built. I'd have thought, for a lawsuit he'd be waiting for. The senator before the last election, to agree on the need for increased investment and increased donations to these classes. Hv. A senator well knows the Ministry of Presidency, since earlier he served as prime minister. At the same time, the staff's pay was sometimes paid on the side of budgets instead of just starting clean up and putting the cost on the budget, assuming that five helpers, two assistants for Prime Ministers, and three for the entire government. This has been legal since 2013. I am not ashamed to put this figure on the budget bill of each year with open and transparent ends instead of shifting expenses for such recruitments in a financial bill that I don't feel any good about. I knew what to do. A senator would discuss a building at the Board of Directors. At the time, the General agreed, if not in the past. A senator at the highest. Prime Minister, for such an operation at the Management Board, it was part of government action because of the 100th anniversary of the Commonwealth. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agreed to this proposal, and as a result, when new buildings are built, a design competition for such a building was implemented. In fact, I am convinced that being in one place for the future will be an advantage for the Ministry of Presidency. [[The president calls.]] But all of us can have a view of the appearance of this building.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u6	Mr. President. The vast numbers of government political assistants do not all land in the account of the Ministry of Presidency but share in the Ministry, and whether all of this is now given up on budget or hope for more later, will not change the fact that never so many political assistants have been hired to work for the government. She has chosen to make full use of the authority that was supposed to be, if I understood correctly when the bill was submitted in its own time, as a backup, and claimed that it would hardly be fully new. But that's what this government will do very quickly. In addition to a general statement followed in response to the highest recommendations, an increase in the number of employees in the Ministry of Presidency has been noted. Prime Minister, the Ministry took over the equality issues. However, the Ministry had an equality issue only for a short time around 2017 so that this increase should not have been required on its own. In fact, the Ministry has given up on certain lawsuits they had before. Hence, it seems that it gives the tone for the increase in expenses in general. V.E.G. A prime minister brings up a need for more than that. Yes, there was a need for a gathering, and in some places it had to be added. But I had to add so much to the Ministry of Ministry. Prime Minister? Would it not have been more wise to make use of this funds elsewhere and to meet the needs of other areas, whether in health, transportation, or elsewhere? The Ministry of Presidency is simply laying the line with this tremendous growth of the booth, the system that we see in the history of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. At first, just a collection of needs. Indeed, in a public investment, there was a gathering need, for it had been for a minimum of many years before the present government began its operation. I like it when it rains. Congress officials do not recognize any demands that have existed in this country for the greater economic recovery to the general population. I don't think there's much to believe in. A senator discussing these matters in the context of the expansion. The terms were not of the Ministry of Presidency but in cooperation with the Ministry of Prime Ministers and Department of Social Affairs and those who have now moved to the Ministry of Prime Ministry were formerly at the Department of Social Affairs. I can't remember if there were five or six of them, and two of them with temporary consultations, so that they will be reduced this year. The equality is a group of languages that I put high priority on raising, and I'm sure that it will. A senator agrees with me, for they are expected to be a complete success in the work of all ministers. It is important that the Ministry of Presidency has a central role. I have given special attention to strengthening Prime Ministers in the Scientific and Technical Council, which I believe is an extremely important matter for the future. Since the Ministry of Presidency has lacked expertise, I have put forth the emphasis on strengthening the expertise as well as on the Ministry's policy role. Of course, the big mail to the Ministry's budget expansion is the building I know of. A senator doesn't like it very much. I would also like to mention that the wages of all assistants are legalized in the Presidency Department, not just the assistant prime minister, but all assistants, in order to maintain the facts. Its resolution was adopted in October 2016, with this addition and the professional practices that have been emphasized in the Ministry of Presidency primarily according to the Will of the Generals as it should.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u8	Mr. President. It's a major tour. The prime minister of challenges within the country was fine. However, I felt that she did not discuss the challenges facing us international, as if she took a long part of her talk to the above, and I often agreed with her. I know she believes deep down inside that we need to add weights to international cooperation. Recently, she received the vice president of the United States and took advantage of this opportunity to promote fundamental values, such as humanity, and I am pleased with it. At the same time, it is incomprehensible to me how a prime minister can raise his hands and give me a financial bill that shows that 300 million people are involved. K. has moved from a group of evolutionary cooperations, from the world's longest population, to the maintenance of military operations. I don't like the fact that the bill just says that there was room to create because of reduced national production to reduce what was low and to bring into defense. This is similar to the fact that when family income decreases, there is room to reduce food intake for the children to renew the car. I can't believe the Minister's gonna let the Senate take over the government and change this. I'd like to hear her attitude, whether or not the orders will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council with regard to development cooperation issues. Hv. A senator says he feels uncomfortable considering the proportion of land production, i.e. ... thisportingis notkempt. [[No.]] Hv. A senator explains. But, at any rate, it is so, and it was very clear from the budget of the budget board this spring, that contributions to development cohesion will be revised in the processing of this budget to meet the objectives we have set up in the development team agreed by the General Assembly that contributions to development cooperation meet the percentage of national productions given there. I stress that it will be done. Hv. A senator asks: "What will the prime minister do? " I am stressing the desire of the General Assembly, which appears in the Committee of Shepherds and will be followed by a developing teamwork program. It is also revealed in the government's government contract, which refers to a total of 0.33% - now I do not remember the year, remembering that it was submitted at the end of an elected period, but I am afraid to do so. I'll tell you what. A senator: In recent years, I would have chosen that language to go faster because we know exactly what we aim to do, and I know that we are. A senator agrees on this, however, is 0.7% of GDP. That's where we can reach, for example. not to follow Dana, so that I take as an example those who have put great emphasis on fulfilling this goal, or the British. I call attention to the fact that these issues have not followed some right / left - to - right political lines but have been a focus on those nations. I believe we can, of course, do better. We will do better with the plans we have, but I agree with them. Senator, this is a case where we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u10	Mr. President. I didn't mean that it would be unpleasant to aim for national product. I meant that it would be unpleasant not to make any further use of a national product to allow this rate to rise. Instead, it is said that there is room to give up money for arms or military exploits. We're on the back side. Sweden's donation is 1.1%, Norwegian 1% and Denmark 0.8%. Findings that are relaxed by these countries are in 0.55%. It's all going too slowly, Mr. President, and there's an incredibly low ambition in this. I'm asking, "Why don't the government itself try to set priorities and say, "We're gonna take money from here and put it on the line?" Instead, the weakest and poorest people in the world that will be first and worst affected by climate change I know of. The prime minister is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u11	And me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u12	I don't think it's a great thing, and I think it's kind of low on a government that doesn't like it or that you don't want to make this priorities clear instead of pushing it with vague words to the council, saying, "Would you please get it done for us?" And use this expression so that there would be room for people and children to die, no drugs, and no food to draw money to the Chefavour airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u13	Mr. President. I'm impressed. A senator of vast size, for he well knows how to handle this matter. It was the council that performed this transfer in spring. It was the Synod and more part of the budget board that suggested that the council make this adjustment in publishing a new economic forecast that appears in the autumn months. The council's orders are not hairy, they are not vague as they are. A senator suggests, they are completely clear, and they follow the approval of the Parliament of the international development programme. A senator knows well. I like it. A senator's facts should be adhered to. Then let's discuss military building at the Cheflavour Airport and how that decision was made. It is based on a 2016 agreement on the increase in the protection of Iceland and the United States, which was introduced at its time to the Allied State Department of State. Similarly, it is based on an agreement between the United States and the United States government that establish this structure. Hv. A senator well knows this story, and how well he knows that these are not new decisions on the road that are being made. Rather, they are making decisions from 2016 and 2017. The General's will is to discuss military construction at Keflavour Airport and our approach to it, especially since the General has agreed to a clear national security policy where the defence and the membership of the Atlantic Alliance is a fundamental factor, which all groups of the Generals unless my party has been behind us, we have clearly said that we follow a national security policy based on the democratic majority of the Generals. So let's just discuss it at Generals' scene, and I think it would be good for us to go to the conference, where we can carefully review our political parties and movement on those issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the tour. She mentioned in her talk how strong the position of the Kingdom treasure is, and it is a pleasure to see how it is reflected in recent financial accounts. It is also a joy to see that for the first time in the history of the economy, public finances work together with money policy. Like most of us in this room, I have high hopes of new-exploited biographies, and to some extent I thought it was incredible, but most of all, very happy that all of us were united in the importance of reducing the taxes on the paydays. Of course, it is in a way that is best left to the lesser ones, and I think it is extremely important that we have reached the point where the union of employment, the labor movement, and the government has united on this vital aspect. The insurance bill also dropped in this bill as the target, and I know that the job life calls for a further reduction. I would like to ask the prime minister to review the key elements of his biographies and how they appear to us here and then maybe merely to care for the benefit of the general population, beyond what the tax returns give. I think the birthworm is important there. It plays a key role in one of our most important issues of equality, as well as for the prosperity of our family. I'd also like to ask the prime minister to review what was much discussed last night, and in fact, she came in on it a little bit in her speech, i.e. what we're building the budget on. Yes, we have a job from Haguen. I'm not going to give myself that individual senators have more to say how economic growth will be here and what development we will see. But it doesn't change the fact that, of course, what we do here affects the economy, so it's always some sort of cycle, and maybe we need to develop even more the models we're working on in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's comment. I think it's the highest import. The financial and economic secretary has presented a positive tax change. We discussed in a government contract that we wanted to see the tax reductions during the term. I believe this implementation will benefit the most needed, i.e. the most treatable groups, their taxes are more than proportional. We bring back the three-way tax system, step-separated tax system, but let's set the step-mark so that they follow the process and inflation. This is a new gap in which we had a system where the top step was in terms of pay and the lower consumption marker, which made the film worse over the years, the more profitable. This is one of the very things that have been very much discussed by the head of the labor movement, and I hope that these changes certainly bring good benefits to those changes. The insurance also mentioned why. A senator, and I repeated it in my speech, but at the same time, we need to look at it in the context of a plan to prolong an old language of birth. I believe that it is of utmost importance when we consider the status of young people, who are now the people who have most of the children in Iceland, and examine, for example. Its development arrangement in the book of Acts. It says that this group has been waiting for us to consider the development of the last few decades in the provisional element. This is one of the factors that matter when we are making decisions. Prolongation of the birth Oralfs and bridge of the carer space, i.e. between obstetrics and rural school, it is referred to as one of the key measures in a report on the poverty of children in Iceland, when it discusses what measures can be taken to reduce the poverty of children, which is a clear objective. We are to eliminate the poverty of children, and the length of the maternity is a big part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for her answers agrees with the importance of an extended birthworm. It has been a long struggle, and it is important for families in Iceland to have fewer and fewer children. I'd also like to come to, and I'm also going to see in the budget bill, the importance of being at the same time we've been putting considerable more money on our main infrastructure, both materially and socially, to be efficient in government business. That's extremely important. It means not only that, as discussed in some talk, to increase the cake, but how good the cake is. What are the benefits of what we receive from these vital systems? To say that, I might want to mention it as the highest. The prime minister entered his policy debate, which is the economy. I had the privilege of being in a group of people who were appointed to review these matters and despite the important standards that we constantly watch, which are economic production and economic growth - and I don't make anything of that recommendation or how important they are, of course, but they don't tell us everything - it's important to look to other factors. V.E.G. Only the family and the child's position did the prime minister enter. It was interesting, for example. To see in that work as we considered what it was most important to people that there is no medical system. One, two, three. They are the most important things to themselves and are what they think is most important to society. Then I have to reiterate that in recent years, we have placed a considerable amount of money on our health system. Unfortunately, we still don't see enough efficiency, and I think we'll have to be our main case in the next few years. But how satisfying it would be if the prime minister could review his vision of the economy!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u17	Mr. President. On Monday, a conference will be held in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economics on Environment. The report of the service group as a subject. A senator here referred to a group of men who have done a very good job that has represented more parts and smaller parts at the General Parliament, will be introduced on Monday, and there is a basic 39 standard of prosperity and quality of life that we can use for policy development and to a greater degree if my vision is realized in this, for example, by my vision. to create budgets and budgets. I think it was so important to appreciate the results of the money we put into important classes, e.g. results that are easy to measure. Consider an example of the patient's payment program. A senator mentions health issues. The group had people know what is most important. It reminds me that the health issues have been at the top, so housing and education. Then, too, people were examined for what is most important to be happy, and health was not only high but also bonding and communication. That is why I have put much emphasis on the birthworm, for it really helps people to grow in touch and in contact. I think this may be very beneficial for us, to direct the funds effectively to the classes we want to establish but also to determine if they are effective. The reduction of patient support factor is relatively easy to measure. Another question that may be more complex is whether we make sure that our health system is thus built up to get the ministry in a place where it is most practical and simplifyed. One thing that health - care minister has been working on is how to reduce the number of emergency health care professionals who are more likely to arrive at their home. Of course, this calls for policy on the part of the public. For it to be successful, we need a more broad range of standards, and then we may see the opportunity to move to our money, for this is not simply a matter of increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her presentation and a vision of sheep. I'd like to ask about perhaps an exact thing, but I think it's quite related to ideas about the economy, even though at first it may not be obvious, which is human rights protection and knowledge of the administrations and ministers, especially on human rights. I can see on the page. 168 on the Government budget to provide educational campaigns on administrative law, ethical regulations, careful administrative practices, and a project on continued improvement in public information, including with the development and presentation of adviser's work on public information rights. I'm asking about these things because, first of all, the record of the Generals agent, who just came out right now, makes it very clear that he believes that the main reason is as dramatic as it turns out in Iceland that the public is allowed to have access to their information is that there is not enough knowledge in the administrations's right to the public's right to get access to information. So this delay is what it's all about. I don't think this is the same about ministers, I'm sorry. We saw it in the National Court case, we saw it in the case of honesty, that the Ministers did not seem to have the official right to the public, what their information duties were to the council, and how administration works in general and generally. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is this educational campaign to be extended to a government minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the comment. Of course, we were accepting new spring information laws, and I put high hopes in their introduction. Already the position of advisers on public information rights, which will take the first steps in promoting greater education, not just to the public, but to the management system of everything, on the content of information legislation. I believe the law has many improvements, especially because of this, as stated in the case of the General President, that the Council now submits to information laws as well as to the administration of courts, but much more initiative required by the Ministry to publish information. Of course, this has created concerns that much work will go on publishing information, and no doubt this will put pressure on the administration. But I am absolutely convinced that in the long run, this will actually reduce work for the treatment of information because I believe that the lines have become very clear as to what the Ministry should take the initiative to publish. It makes public access to information easier and no doubt prevents the number of unnecessary inquiries, I think. So I think we're taking the right step. We are in these matters to follow the example of Norway, who has been considered to be what is progressive in this matter. Hv. A senator asks: Will this apply to a government minister? Ministers in the government are very aware of the changes in information law. The counselor now on these matters will have a meeting with all the problems to which these adjustments will be considered. This won't happen overnight. We'll take the time to introduce this. But I have no doubt that this will be a major progress for both the European public and the Icelandic government, and it is most appropriate that this will happen on the 25th anniversary of the administrative law, which is exactly this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u20	A respectable president. Throughout history, the theory has been popular, according to my opinion, that state activities should be reduced and the government's expenses, increased taxes, and so forth, but so as to succumb to the economy, the government should give only, increase taxes, and so on. In principle, I take this hypothesis, at least I have not seen any strong evidence or evidence against it. But sometimes I feel that there is a lack of this hypothesis to the next stage, further into the future, and more on the basis of how we handle nature. By nature I mean climate, I'm talking about climate change. Now there is tolerance for increased expenditures due to poor economics. I think most people are on the same line as to the fact that it's wise to increase expenses now, even the right men accept it more now. But more is needed, investments need to be made in the interior and the like, which are part of it. However, considering climate change and the equipment we need decades into the future, I wonder: Is this not the right place to make climate change central to social planning? It is now that we need to invest in technology to cope with climate change. It is now that we need to consider that there will be an increase in the cost of climate change, e.g. because of rising oil prices or because of green taxes or whatever. Likewise, there is one industry that will contract. It is predicted that in many areas of agriculture, the future will not be the same as it is now. We simply do not have enough climate. But something like carnivores or increased vegetable production. I feel that there is something wrong with seeing climate change as a focus of community planning when it comes to government funds and finances in general. I wanted to go to the highest. Minister after reaction to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording climate issues. My opinion is that as much as we've done with the equality, the climate issues need to be something that we're working on at every point, at every post, in every department. At the same time, I think it's very positive what we see in both the climate project itself and the financial plan, what we're doing, that I think is a clear and very progressive step to combat the effects of climate. I'd like to mention that the government now introduced 450 million. K. in the energy supply of transport. What is particularly enjoyable is that private workers are entering this campaign, so we are seeing possible investments that could study up to a billion between 2019 and 2020 to speed up transport energy. For example, the indiscriminates we've had to deal with electrically powered vehicles have been on approximately one occasion. 3 billion a year, in order to increase their numbers. We're going to introduce these indiscriminates to electrically powered wheels and bicycle machines, such a different number of electric wheels. All of this helps. This tells us that we're adapting our systems with the green elements, but also green taxes, which were only talked about yesterday, to deal with climate issues. Hv. A senator specifically mentions research and technological changes in this matter. We have decided in the field of scientific and technical advice to prioritate funds in particular for climate research, since it is the social challenge that we now value the most important. We're setting up money into those research. We also see a great deal of emphasis on the increase in innovation in these issues in various innovations. I mention a project that is beginning to become available in many parts of the world, which, of course, is the CarbFix project, where carbon is being pumped into rock and converted back to rocks. [[The president calls.]] Success will not be achieved unless we are, just like that. A senator mentions, with a coordinated operation in a wide variety of areas. [[The president calls.]] But surely it takes time to achieve that coordination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u22	The president will keep his word on a lack of tolerance for passing a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u23	A respectable president. Actually, I was going to ask the highest. The prime minister went on to another, but since a minister made the publicity of the economy, the basis for this government and the government of the government, I can't stand to ask a little more about it. I'm always bored with that move in politics, trying to put things in a different light than they really are in. It is said that the government has played a key role in the economy. It's simply wrong. It was initiated by a financial program that expected a huge expansion, which was a source of criticism to it at the beginning, but then, when the economy went off to a high level, it was suddenly a smudge of to which it grew. But government funds simply can't afford it. That's the fact. In particular, a government fund today is criticized for an excessive increase in the budget of the state, in view of the financial status of the economy, but far too little of the importance of investments. The prime minister says: "We are based on public predictions, not on the feelings of individuals, but on public interest. The question is, why not apply the laws on public finances? It is not merely the economics of the Economics that can be followed, and in fact, it is to be observed, in these circumstances, because we are to be cautious in public finances. It is specifically stated in the laws on government finance that the economics of the budget should be viewed to more people, publics, and others, such as the statistics of the banks. It just follows this simple fact: The living room's moral values are the longest in the night. Then let's look at reality, but it doesn't seem like that, because it's still coming with an over-reaching regime to be able to read in a situation in the economy at any given time, because it's still coming up with a whole too optimistic basis for making money so as to be able to pay a huge gain, and then we're going to sweep it under the carpet later in the winter when we're going to correct the stupidness of the budget. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Does she feel that this is an acceptable practice?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the comment. I knew that just by mentioning the Haguen prophecy, I would hurt him up here so that all of this works out the way it was supposed to. Of course, we do. Hv. A senator asks: " Won't there be other factors to look at? ' Don't you need to be careful? I think we're doing it. I believe that to create an increase in public investment now - we can debate whether there is enough to do about it - is a key key to getting relaxed in the economy. Official investments have been well below historical averages in recent years. We're spitin' in. I think that's the right thing to do. It sounds like a reason. A senator would agree with me on that. Hv. A senator was now criticized for overcrowded by government agreements. I believe that the presence of the government was of great importance to the outcome. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me that the workforce is a change that cannot be taken out of the economy. We need to keep it under. It's not enough to have government money. We need a money policy that works on government issues. Likewise, employment market policy needs to be a part of this. I've said before that we've been in a learning process when it comes to the government law, I'll be the first to say it here, and I think all members of Congress share that view. These laws were passed four years ago. I think we're working better and better with these songs every year. I also believe that what's happened at the labour market, the important change, and what we've seen going on at the Secret Bank, shows that all three of these factors are working together. We can also debate whether public investment should be greater or less than the thinking behind public finances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Of course, she is able to hurt me with a little more discussions, but I intend to try to restrain myself so as not to forget the other question. The bottom line is this: State spending is being increased from year to year by 70 billion. It is being returned, in accordance with agreed financial policy, extension to zero or next. My criticism simply turns to the fact that we will continue to bring the rest of the budget to zero, and if the economic premates are to be inferior and we need to re-evaluate in November, we simply have to cut down heavily on the budgets that are being provided here. I expect that will be the case. I'm not going to extend my case about it any more than we came to that in November. But I would like to ask the highest. Ministers to a group of lawsuits that we are deeply interested in, which are equal, perhaps especially in regard to the status of the female classes of the country. The public organization is now in good standing agreements. To the government, a vote of a special campaign was made to improve women's interests, and I hear in my conversations with the labor movement leaders, especially in the public markets, that although the case was referred to by the government for a year and a half, it has not been discussed. There has been no announcement of any meeting with the labor movement to discuss how you might improve. I wondered about the basics of budgets: Is there any room in the depositors' budget to do something about it? This is one of the most important reasons for the sex pay we still enjoy and is tremendously important to correct, for there are very important classes of classes, such as teachers and carers. We can all agree that without them we cannot be. Their rewards in education are simply not fair when we compare them with very large male classes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before and would like to reiterate it over the first issue that, of course, there is always some uncertainty about economic developments. We know, being a small economy, that there is a greater uncertainty here historically and will be greater if we pursue larger economic systems that are different. Of course, we are aware that there is always uncertainty. Yet, I feel that this should be a basic guide for the Haguess. Of course, we depend on international things. Much has been discussed, for example, about the commercial wars of the United States and China in that context, which have a major impact on our only export work, the world industry. So I'm not gonna stand here and pretend we're some island in this context, that there's no basis for an increased uncertainty. It certainly is not. But I think we're using the tools and tools we have to build stability. I have considered it a process of learning that I believe we are making progress. With regard to women's classes as a boy. A senator, of course, mentions a very important matter, has both the highest priority. A health minister and a minister of education are standing for work to give particular attention to the salary and employment conditions of teachers and health groups. I know that the Department of Health has been responsible for accounting with the BHM collective agreements and in particular the design and health-care professions were preparing suggestions that I believe have been forwarded in agreement with the sector. But, of course, it's a big deal, because it has to do with not only the ideals of women, which are a very important factor, but it's also a design problem within the health system, a problem that we actually share with other northern countries, unfortunately. It requires that we watch this not only from the polls but also from the big picture when it comes to working conditions. I agree with what. A senator says it's a huge deal. [[The president calls.]] I know it's working, but, of course, will be looking for where it is after a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her history, the government. All the officials of the government and the prime minister just now - and I also listened to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister of the Bbit this morning will be talking about the great improvement in the third tax step, the tax process that should result in more recovery. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, for it is absolutely impossible for me to understand, how it should do some foolish thing to accomplish in 2021. The poor people are still waiting for justice, and now for two years they wait for this tax reduction, but at the same time, a decrease in personal discount is being made and a number of extra taxes and expenditures are being imposed. Now I do not belittle the good things that are going on in connection with the rise in child development and all the effort that it is obvious that the government is meddling in housing and so forth. I'm not trying to demean what's well done. But I'd like to ask how in the world -- I just can't understand this, I'm clearly having some reluctance, I can't figure it out - this is to return some betterment to those who have least and have nothing but alimony from, for example. The office of insurance or the underpayers who work full - time is unskilled and under $250,000. paid after a full month's work. How can this be achieved in some real dresser improvement for these people who are always talking about here and making a huge, positive case? I'm just asking the highest. Prime Minister to try to help me in this matter. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up business here, the most efficient groups. I think it's important that we keep what we're doing and what we're doing. A senator itself mentions these actions. First of all, I'd like to mention your housing issues. They were one of the big cases in all of the last winter, the debate on housing matters, and the natural requirement for the labor movement that housing costs would decrease as a proportion of dispositions, i.e. that the amount of money that people have to spend on homes would decrease. That is why we put forth tremendous emphasis on continuing donations for the development of social housing and, on the other hand, taking in new resources to support people who are buying their first property so that people would have a choice. We would be cutting down the expenses of provisional tea. These are actions that I hope will return in a positive way to the most efficient groups. If we make the tax changes, the ones that get the most out of these changes are the group of 3,35,000,350,000. in total. It's the lowest wage. These people will pay about 125,000 bucks. less tax a year. When we add this to our child's settlements, in the case of children, - and of course, not all children, but also expensive to have children - this can really study the thirteenth month of pay a year. I think that when it comes to government action, it's important to keep all of this in order, that we are taking action to reduce housing costs, to support especially the children, and to ensure that tax changes are most useful to the income. This doesn't solve all issues. I'm totally aware of that, like what's happened. A senator points out. What I'm saying is that all of our actions are thought to meet this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answer. The question is simple, extremely simple. I'm going to repeat that I'm not minimizing the good things being done, not at all. On the other hand, I have the best interests of those with the least of my temper and am really under attack, the same as the prime minister, when she was not prime minister two years ago, saying: Poor people cannot wait for justice. The fact is, though, that the poorest people are still waiting for justice. Of course, it is very good to be able to go through life with optimism and smiles, which will save the day. But there are a lot of people out there who can't smile. That's why I'm asking again about this tax reduction. The only thing I'm really positive about, and getting everyone in need is the growth reduction that is actually 1%, and there's still evidence that this is the start of a good and continued growth reduction process, which is naturally useful to all of us, whether it's an individual or a company. But it doesn't change the fact that I'd wanted to see, and I really call out that at the same time that's talking about 10,000 bucks. A better source of material for individuals living in 2021 is seen overall in the picture. What does it do for these people when they are being imposed on extra laws, whether in the form of a carbon tax, in the form of other taxes, in terms of sentencing, or in green taxes? Of course we have to do all of this, and this is necessary. Our earth is in trouble, and we only have one earth. But that does not change the fact that those who are unable to care for themselves from day to day are not to be bitten and not to have economic stability in their lives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I mentioned earlier that green willes and green taxes must, of course, be used in such a way that they do not take advantage of the money. Of course, there will be ideologies in this process. But at the same time, if we are going to be successful in the environment, as I know it. A senator and I agree, we need clear economic motivation. Iceland is far behind such countries as when it's time to make a big deal, including Because we haven't introduced pricing taxes made by other countries, because sometimes only economic incentives need to change behavior. When it comes to these groups, I think it's a great pleasure to know that we're initiating a change that takes up a new low - income phase, and then we can say that we're in line with the North countries in the way we build up our tax system. Of course, that's the model I want to build on, and I think that's why. A senator and I would agree that this makes the tax system more righteous. We can debate how fast this transition is going to take. In the initial financial program, it was expected to be implemented in three years. We're going further on this budget bill and we're going to introduce it in two years. This is precisely because the labor movement has also provided a clear view of the urgency of these changes. So we are in a hurry to make these changes. This will not only matter to employees in the public labour market, but also to employees in the public market, as much as to those I know about standing at heart. A senator near. This, along with the growth reduction as a dog. A senator mentioned everything will return to this group. I have solid faith that we will see the greater impact of these changes in society and that people in general will have it better. I think that this is at the right time when it comes to the pace, so it will all matter and will result in the widespread use of government measures. There's a senator calling for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u31	V.E.G. President. In short, I explain the key points of the bill to the 2020 budget in which the topic areas that represent me are fully or partially a minister. The focus on travel changes, including to continue a follow-up for short-term rent to tourists, but it has been decided to support the project that has been undertaken in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and Development and the County of the capital area under the name Homeland Security. This contributes to the improvement of tax exchanges and an overview of the individual stay, but homemaking registration has nearly doubled since the beginning of the campaign by the mid- 2018. In addition, projects on the model destinations for tourism will be emphasized, while in Vega in travel service from 2015 it is stated that the model destinations for tourism should be defined in which the preparation for design and construction will be set out according to the best example. The Ministry is working together with the Environment and Resource Ministry and other economists to define what constitutes model destinations for tourism, including taking into account foreign examples and international guidelines. We have already decided that Geys and Skaftfell will become the first model destinations, and they will be working on it in the year that it might be. Other parts of the country and major sails will then be considered. During the early part of 2020, European tourism policies will be completed in cooperation with the government and the sector. The strategy will be action-based on a forward view and guided by the Icelandic tourism services to the year 2030, which we have already published under the heading "System of sustainable development, and by the balance of tourism or the tolerability work which is a regular tool to assess the impact of tourism on the environment, infrastructure, society, and the economy of the country. For energy, a special contribution to energy exchange is initially expected through the Energy Fund, which is followed by the contribution to this year. Action then depends on the government action programme on climate change and on the controversies of the energy exchange strategy. Second, in a special three - year campaign that I introduced at the beginning of the year, a donation is expected to speed up the development of electricity. More than a quarter of the Raikks' distribution system is a monophasic phase that limits both the transport capacity of the system and the power of electronic devices to be used at a local level. Thus, cleaning is important by energy exchange, by eutrophication, tourism, agriculture, and other occupational instruments and by sectoral structure. Prioritive tasks will be used for the use of triunes, synergistic effects with a fibre optics fixation and the age of the current electrical line. The three - year phase will highlight the completion of the three - year program in two areas, in the Skaftár carpet, and on the Miniasm. Third, contributions to house warming are expected to be increased, taking into account the real need for subsidies and the factors that affect the cost, e.g. urban development, tourism, weather. There is also a provisional contribution due to the exchange of energy on Kili in accordance with the current environmental and environmental policies, the promotion of transport services, and the increased security of communication. I also want to state that a team, with the arrival of all three members, is, of course, working on long-term energy policy development and is expected to complete this policy in the first part of the next year. For innovation, research and knowledge reports under the Minister of Neon, there will be an increase of less than 10 billion, an increase of more than 640 billion. K. since 2019 and clearly shows this government's importance that this country is a powerful innovation environment. Other projects include production of digital structures or FabLabs, in accordance with the synopsis accepted here, and support for pioneers and companies in the field of green technical solutions, as well as research and development in functional companies. I've said that before, and I also reiterate that the jury isn't merely about expenses. In view of this, I am happy to tell you that in the weeks that have been involved in simplifying the supporting environment of innovation, with the aim of achieving increased efficiency, simple regulations, and transparency in public support. It will also be emphasised on improving the environment of the pioneers and innovation enterprises, from the development of ideas for growth and marketing of foreign markets, in line with the aim of increasing export prices on the basis of innovation and improving the competitiveness of work life in the international context. A respectable president. I look forward to having a conversation with a body of Congress about the classes that hear under the Ministry and are all important, and I've been here trying to get big about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the passage she gave to the group of lawsuits, which, of course, are very important. Travel services have become a burden in Icelandic employment and economy, a vast source of income to the large group that operates on the article, with the exception of the vast collection of incomes in national preparation. Mr. President. I wanted to direct that inquiry to the highest level. A minister of what is behind the plans described in the budget for reimbursement of tourists. It contains a figure of 2.5 billion. What I want in the highest. A minister remains is what plans are made for the implementation of that payment. Is it expected that it will especially take place in the field of air transport? Is that where the domestic flight comes from? Is this what they're talking about? Extinct or arrivals? What timing is planned for this? If we are talking about costing each ticket, how is the amount paid at 2.5 billion? What's the largest amount of money. A minister in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u33	Mr. President. In fact, it is not a declaration of a certain payment on the article in this financial bill, but there are some underlying grounds for a financial program. We've got a team working to take care of this eternal pay grade, and I'm assuming that this job will end, and it's going to go into the long-term conference. I myself view in general the control of tourism as one of the operating routes, and that is the guide we have in general and will test for some degree, different from places, etc. I've particularly had this group examined the host tax, i.e. Who would not pay it to form a cruise ship, and those renting in Airbnb, and whether the tax stock could be improved, both to improve it, but more so as to balance the competitive status of those on that market. However, there is no specific requirements. You'd have to do a lot of research. My opinion is that if such plans were to be taken in the air market, the ratings to form in the airport will tell us that there would be a great need for careful consideration. The budget bill does not offer any special donations for travel services, but there have been some underlying grounds, and they are in relation to the work being done in that field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the question of the Ministry's case and what's in the budget bill. Since this is such a large group of paintings under the minister, I'm going to try to isolate myself while traveling. It is said that Iceland is a leading and sustainable development in tourism. Tourism and tourism have now been high in recent years, normal. It's always developing, now it's downhill, and whenever it's down, it'll bite in peripheral areas first. The bill speaks of travel as being a leading factor in sustainable development, and as indicated by the minister's talk, Geys and Skaftfells are required to be exemplary in meeting places. All right. Now, with the downturns, the initial pressure has gone from the perimeters, which I first mentioned. Travelers, those who go to that activity, are disturbed about going into such activity, and I want to ask the minister: Is there anything in the pipes that might rather short the perimeters to keep sead for tourism so that we can talk about sustainability around the whole country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question, and it's very important. Of course, we know that there is much more stress and even more demand in the southwest and South, but we have also seen great and good changes in this regard. It's moving, and Snæfells is today developing a much warmer tourist location, but it wasn't that long ago, Northland as well as Northland, and it stretches its scent north and northeast, etc. This is evolution in the right direction. I was deeply concerned that the punch we had today would have a worse effect on the perimeters, but evidence indicates that there is actually a situation. But we have tools to work on this. One is marketing. Other are the marketing institutions that play a key role in such areas in many parts of the country, and their trend in becoming some kind of middle - class development is of great importance to me. I think they're going to play a more important role in the future than they do today and they're a key factor in our development at Iceland's destination, i.e. that there are destinations all over the country. The driving I mentioned earlier is a second example, both to help reduce the pressure on the most sought-after tourist attractions to protect nature and fit the pressure and ensure the positive experience of tourists so that the destination of Iceland continues to have the fine recommendations and scores it has today, but also to ensure that all the people benefit from this structure. We then feel that the market itself is looking for new tickets and tourists who come here for what is new, wanting to go to more sophisticated places, and less known, so I believe that this will happen. All our actions are targeted in an effort to distribute tourists around the country, and it is of utmost importance that this largest industry in the country develops in this way and builds up that it is all over the country for the benefit of all the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u36	President. There is a number of interesting information in the financial bill we discuss here. V.E.G. The circuit, industrial, and innovation minister gave a speech on the Prime Minister's policy speech last day and arrived. into the importance of increasing our efficiency in a smarter and more visible way, saying, with the permission of a president: the programme must not be our primary measure of success, as I think we in this hall are all too much talking out of it. I agree in many ways, and of course, I think we should always try to find ways to make the best use of the government tax money. But after examining the budget bill, I'm not surprised at the top too. A minister's made it clear. It seems that contributions to the musculoskeletal sector are cut down. The overall cost of the transport sector decreases by 13% between years. Operational transport contributions are reduced, e.g. about 12.4 million. K. between. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in this context: what will be done with contributions, e.g. to the national market room? Will donations be restricted to them? Reading it out of the bill is not easy. Certainly, the emphasis is most honorable. Minister of the long-term conference of the seminary, and I agree with the need for that emphasis. However, short-term attention is also needed, and it is clear that donations are being reduced to the jury at an unfortunate time for the sector. It certainly makes the most of the budget for flying development and market projects in North America. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Would it not have been preferable to take advantage of this funds within the same category, to use funding to support and increase knowledge within the article, and to put even more in Iceland's market? Then I think it is also very important to support the article toward improving sustainability, especially with regard to the environment and projects that contribute to reducing the levels of carbon dioxide. Would it not be wise to make money, e.g. in that, rather than cutting down to the jury?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u37	President. Thank you. A senator's questions. In fact, the funds assigned to the market room have come to a travel agency, but we have increased funds for them. As I mentioned earlier, it is my policy to further strengthen them. This is true not only if they receive additional assignments but also if the funds are followed, i.e. We believe that such activities are important and we hide them, but also that their role, their role, will be clearer, they become more uniform in many ways so that certain tasks can be assigned to them. It can be reversed if there are no changes because of the differences between them. I think we agree on the importance of this, and that's a project in front of us. In terms of aeroplane development fund, the funds are properly dropped, but unfortunately we have not used the funds in the fund. I'm not worried about the future of the fund. Since it is a trust fund, the money transfers from year to year, it is money, and if so pleasantly enough, money would get faster and faster, it could be said that there is a certain luxury problem that we face in view of the fact that it would mean a lot of good things to the areas that benefit us. So the air development fund lives on. We're not laying him down. People can just assume that they are sure that they will be there to work on hopefully increasing atrial and greater activity. Regarding the environment, we have measures that involve energy exchanges and are particularly involved in increasing loading stations in hostels and hotels. So we are doing our part. But I must also allow myself to welcome the initiative of the article itself. I feel that the article itself is becoming very aware of the importance of reducing carbon footprints. [[The president calls.]] Some companies are doing amazing things, and I think they themselves see the uniqueness of it and that it's also good for the business to do it very well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, although I would have liked it to come a little better into the country's market out of place and to put extra funds into what is certainly being done so that I'm completely honest in the public chair, but I think it needs better, and I think it would have been preferable to take advantage of the money that's being cut into this category. I welcome the highest. A minister says about the air development fund, and we discussed this in this hall this spring. However, I must express my concern about the flying fund. During spring discussions about this matter, the highest was assured. My minister that this was not a change of course and repeated it earlier. But surely it is still not the policy of this government to increase the openings into the country? I'd like to discuss it for a minute. We face various challenges. Iceland's brand appears to be shrinking to popularity. It has, for example, been found there. large sums of money, high prices, and rumors about too many tourists had negative effects. We have seen significant reductions in the arrival of tourists in the country during the year as a result of problems with airlines, but surely only the number of tourists coming to stop and spend more. So it is good to put money on the market, but better if necessary, it is also possible to look to the local positions. It is now anticipated that their response will be considerably reduced by this, even to 10% in some cases. Surely we must respond similarly. Finally, I'd like to introduce my innovation. I'm happy, of course, that we're going to be conducting a innovation policy, but I noticed that the bill is expected to fund financial support for policy action. I can't help but wonder if there's any change in the supporting systems and institutions of the state that are involved in new innovations and are reacting there, if action goes into the Ministry of Economics, but not in the Ministry. Minister. I'd like to hear about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u39	President. First only to answer whether it is a government policy to expand ports, it clearly remains the government's policy to do so. Through the market, yes, we continue to put our money on it. There is always an initial reaction when things change that there is a need for more money in the market. I have emphasized that it is more important to be sure of where the funds go, and that is related, for example. Aviation offer, where are seats, but not that we're just going to launch because there's an initial reaction when something's wrong and something changes. Of course, we always have to work on the country's image and on a market, but there are other factors, other influential factors that have a major impact on what is called, the places to form a discussion about the country, such as the year. A senator entered, and traveled. Happily, while growth is shrinking, tourists spend more and more. It had entered the crown, and a part of a tourist's spending more is, of course, a change in the currency. But only about innovation, which, of course, is material in a much longer answer. If I understood why. For example, for example, for example, some of the innovation policies go to the Ministry of finance, to form some sort of tax system changes and research and development reimburses there despite the responsibility - that is also one of the things to explain properly, whether extramaritals are the way it is supposed to be. And with regard to the rest of the root system, it's under there. We need to look to see if the founding system as it is today serves best the interests of the pioneers and the innovations in Iceland. We can just look at whether we need to sharpen certain priorities, change focus, and possibly stop doing things that we've been putting away that other people can do, or we put other factors above our list of priorities. [[The president calls.]] I'd especially like to mention, in the four seconds I'm past, that I think the digital carpenters, that factor, are the absolute key to the future, and that we're going to put them all over the country so that kids can work much sooner in a much easier way, so that valuable things can come into existence. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u40	The president asks senators and other speakers to respect the time limit. It's a long day ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u41	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of fine publicity today and the finest budget. I'd like to discuss some things, but mostly, I'm sticking to energy, energy policy. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity again and again to give the highest commendation. Minister for the Committee appointed to achieve a future energy policy for the nation. The budget bill shows that this is related and natural, many other important things, that I don't have a chance to come on. But I'm thinking about sponsorship, innovation, and what attracts us all to live in the same situation. Power fund is really my idea. I may have wanted to have the highest. A minister to establish only whether it feels that there is enough money in it to care for the important projects involved in the development and development of innovation. More recently, this support has been done mainly in research and development in businesses. Can we expect that we are now going to be more directly into innovation outside of a live enterprise? What a joy it is to have increased contributions to innovation, research, and knowledge, if I calculate correctly, 11% over the years, which is above the increase that has already taken place! This is very important. In connection with the energy policy, which I may find to be more familiar with the next talk, I would like to discuss the distribution cost of electricity, which is a key part of it. It's the highest. A minister realizes that according to this financial bill, we can begin to balance the distribution cost of electricity across the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First about Power Fund, it's certainly getting more money into it now as far as energy change is concerned. Asking if there's enough money. Of course, we're placing a lot of money in this suit group, and it's in the Ministry of Environment and in my department and in other places. But I would see an opportunity if there were more money in the fund to speed up even more significant changes. That would really do you good. We set a Senate bill to legalize Energy Fund, if the role can be changed further, and I think there may be a particular opportunity in it, although only to achieve further harmony and more cooperation between private and state, etc. Of course, we also have Technical Development Fund and Ranni's work as a project on climate and energy issues, and it's also on the Constitution of a bill, which is part of a new creation policy that we soon start talking about, a fund where this knowledge would find a way. We know that we have excellent knowledge in our hands in this regard. Today, at the cost of electricity distribution, we are setting 980 million today, which is certainly not sufficient to balance the distribution costs. You could double that amount. Then those who did not wish to accept the third energy package would say that the power prices had already been raised, even though it was just our own decision to balance distribution costs. Of course, it is also possible to place it directly on the budget. I'm thinking that it's like roads, telecommunications, VOLV, and other factors - it's the same thing everywhere -- it also applies to the distribution of electricity. These fortresses are almost all in the country, and these are basic structures that all of us should be able to take them at the same price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u43	President. I thank the Minister for the answer. This is very important what it says. I'm not going to take the dance offer for a discussion about the third energy package offered by the minister. Nevertheless, I would like to discuss now the energy issues that I preached, and everyone is excited to wait. All of this, of course, is being discussed in the National Committee that is discussing energy policy for Iceland. The idea of setting energy policy for a few decades with some stages along the way is a tremendous idea that will be exciting to see and successful. All the funding systems we're dealing with, i.e. In innovation and technology, how we level the situation of all the people of the country, of course, is part of this and, like the highest. A minister came on, considering the basic factors that all of us should have access to, wherever we live. That's why I'd like to have a word with a minister about this. The reason we're doing this, energy exchange, and so on is because we're going to have nothing of carbon. I've found that the part of our discussion is about the Power Institute to be able to use the position we're so lucky to live here on land, our new energy systems primarily to reach a carbon share. In fact, if we are going to participate in globally freeness of carbon, we need to take steps further. But that's another story. I wanted to hear a minister's opinion on this, whether it agrees with me that it should be our theme when it comes to working energy policy, as well as, of course, all that we've discussed here, and that it's only a tiny fraction of it, but that the transport is nothing of carbon object.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u44	President. Of course, we could spend a very long time discussing energy policy, which contains another dozen topics, all of which call for much time to talk about. Of course, we are trying to do a very complicated task, both materially and politically complex, but for a long time, and I hope that we have the wisdom to complete that assignment. What matters to me is the availability of every citizen of the country to electricity and the fact that there is real freedom to live. That means that you have a triple-up power problem, that you can get electricity on you, that you can start a business in a certain area of the country, that it can be, that the transport system does not prevent it the way it really is. Of course, 85% of the things we produce go to some very big companies that are very important to us and that are why we were able to build up transportation systems at the time, by getting them into our country. I think it's important that these companies develop and build themselves further up and use their will to make new solutions, further reduce emissions, to use the competitive prelude to produce this product, where electricity is created in the way it is done here. I wanted to say it specifically. The energy exchange is then important for transport on land, at sea, for tourism and all of this, and I think we can get them faster than we may have kept so far. I think it's a big opportunity for us as a country, both outside and beyond, competitiveness, etc. and I believe that the weight we are discussing right now will be relevant to the work that lies ahead in energy policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to go in a little bit and ask about the position of innovation companies. Now I know of the great innovation policy that's coming and the changes that we're about to make in the funding and fund, which is very good. However, the question is, Can't you do even more to improve the environment of these enterprises? The innovation policy suggests some changes we will see, but it is not obvious that some follow-up is expected this year. There is no evidence in the Constitution, however, that there is no big thing involved, nor is there anything particularly in the budget as such. Where are those changes? That's really my question. We may have to wait a long time for these changes to take effect. Often, the business environment of an enterprise is viscous, it is difficult to change things except for years of time and other things. We know that the cost of starting and running a company in Iceland is very high. There's no need for the further inquisitors for a innovation company, certain things like that. Instructing foreign experts may be easier. It's been over and over, but I haven't seen enough evidence that this is changing. I know it's the highest. A minister is very interested in changing those things. But where is it? When will we see such things?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. It's for creating a case in a Senate file, even though it's in ours, end of a lot of work ahead, which turns toward setting up a new fund that will significantly change, I believe, the environment of pioneers in this country. There, the State, to meet certain criteria, can make a contribution to the privacy of other sources when investing in an earlier stage of thought. Where we just look at it: Where are things working? How? We're trying to transfer it to Iceland. There is one suggestion on the Constitution. If we'd only had a little more time, I'd have wanted to see more changes in my Ministry and the Ministry of finance. It is possible to update the Christmas Constitution, and we will work fast and do what we can to win our way. Whether or not there will be any changes in a New Year's Constitution, this requires adjustment of the law and other changes that may not necessarily be presented in the legal process. Of course, I wanted us to have a new creation policy in front of us and to discuss it, and it comes to that, because it suggests changes, whether in terms of taxation or in the interests of local or foreign experts, and how can it be easier for them to come to the land, not to be as heavy as it is today. These are changes under a different department, but there are a number of reports of significant changes. I'm interested in trying to create some kind of homepage where all these suggestions can be applied. Then everyone will be able to observe how it goes, on every beach, etc., because it's a continuing project, of course. It is not that we report and can check, report, and make some changes with a bill, and then we limp. [[The president calls.]] It is a project that will continue for decades, and it is alive. We need to have a measure of humility in this regard despite the need to keep our pockets in check.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u47	A respectable president. The secretary spoke of the importance of digital carpenters and their availability. A financial program refers to the development of digital carpenters. There is a 2020 budget covered by the budget, to 2022. The simple question is, When will we stop molding? When will we start doing something? In fact, the digital structure setting is very clear. This is a very known model. There have been, however, several digital structures built on that model, so there's nothing extremely complex, I would say, shape a frame. This may be mainly about deciding where to start developing digital carpenters, in a local sense. We don't have to wait three years to get started. The General approved this a year ago and a summer ago. Three years of work is now being done to shape the setting. I'm scratching myself over whether this is what the Allied agreed to after all. It's missing, for example. At this cost, as I've talked about many times before. If the cost of this project was clearly greater than the cost of just setting things up, you could ask: "I'm sorry, why is it so expensive to shape a frame? It's because it's being done inside the same thing, but we can't see it and can't ask about it. It's very invisible and opaque. I agree that this is an enormously important site, digital carpenters, a bioavailability that is very important, such as the highest possible. Minister said, but the simple question is, when do we start?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u48	Mr. President. I'll let me say we won't wait three years to start, but the project will, of course, take time. We are not going to take three years to shape the setting. We've been working on the Senate resolution. There's some staff in my department who's been doing their research and has been meeting a lot of things, and they're putting a lot of emphasis on this. Of course, it's also about setting priorities for the money we put in the seminary today. That is why I feel that we too need to take the conversation. What is the most important thing when it comes to innovation? One is a business environment, a change of tax, some a fund, and something like that. The other question is, How do we prepare for the changes we are making in the future? I consider digital carpenters to be a key factor in it. And then I also feel that we have to have the courage to ask, " Where does the money go today? ' Do we want to change the course to overemphasize this factor? Who should have that role? How do we build up? This has been very random up until now. The factories are widely located, and they are outstanding in some places. We need to build this up progressively. We won't wait three years to start. I hope to introduce a innovation policy, and the control team that won it, over the next few weeks. Then we'll put this into practice. I welcome the synonym, which was accepted by Pirata and the Conspiracies, hoping that it can be won in cooperation. [[Up front.]] This is important, and we're planting seeds that we'll need to support in due time. But I hope we can begin as soon as possible, and in fact, we've started to work, but we can start preaching and making changes very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u49	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the budget for 2020. There's been a lot of talk about energy issues over the past year. That is positive, for energy is important to all of us and to every home and industry in the country. It is a basis for prosperity that we enjoy safe energy and that it is given equally and safely across the country. Travel services are all over the country, and many are in rural areas. Thus, electricity recovery is important. More than a quarter of the distribution system is a monophasic phase and there is a considerable lack of the triphasic distribution system of Orcsus Westfjords. Cleaning is important because of energy exchanges, regional policies, tourism, agriculture and other employment opportunities in the scattered areas. It is therefore a joy to see that the next year's budget is expected to include 80 million and the same amount for the next three years. The emphasis is on completing the development of electricity in the Skaftárfjords and Miniasm. A new developed strategy stresses the speed of international triphasia and is assumed that energy sources will be used to achieve the task. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. A minister has a plan for a lengthy period of time over the three years for the inflation of electricity, and if so, what is laid down in this schedule and when is the highest level. A minister suggests that such work could have been completed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this important inquiry. Like a snooze. A senator came in, and we now have this campaign, stressing the completion of a three - year - long trip in both the Trench and the Mordam. Then there's money in a home plan about 400 million. K. which I expect can be started at the end of the next year, if I know the right way to report. There's a full-time job at the Ministry right now. We had a team working under the leadership of a man. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson and why. paritaprevir Like others, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter had a very important job, which is actually a foundation for what we now do in the Ministry. I'm an assistant to the ex-fiancée. Secretary of the Interior, Ólöf Nordal, was allowed to cooperate. paritaprevir Then Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, working on the fiber - optic project, in which the idea was always to use the cohesive effect further in the development of fiber optics and the construction of triunes. There are some projects that can still be followed by fiber - optic projects. I'd like to, and that's what we're working on in the Ministry, trying to use the ideologies in the development of the triunes, as well. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has been leading the past few years. We cannot only look at plans for the system's age as it is but we need to look at where the demand for the Trinity is. Where's the most need? Where does it stand for cleaning jobs? And that's when we especially come to agriculture and tourism. I see an opportunity to follow this a little bit and try to work with rural or local authorities to make further use of money, for I believe that similar things can be done in the triune process and with the photographer, even though it is a little more complex. Make it faster for less money by thinking outside the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, not questioning her sincere interest in these matters and encouraging her. However, although national energy resources and electrical transport are linked to electricity, the country is not at the same level when it comes to the transport of electricity to its home. I'm going there on a lot like what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé earlier. There are two registrations in the country to transport electricity, i.e. rural and urban prices. Over the past few years, there has been an increase in the rate of reimbursement each year. For example, from the branch of Orcsus Vestafí, over 22% more are in rural areas than in urban areas. It may be noted that although some places, I mention Inundation, are completely self-sustaining about electrical energy from the microintensities that have to be watched after the electricity and buy it so much more expensive when it comes back. It is clear that rural and urban areas are falling apart, and the current equation is far from equalizing this difference. In current development programmes, projects fall to three top targets: equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. For each target, you can find goals, including projects that contribute to the increased energy costs of rural areas and urban areas. So I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Minister how she envisions a solution in this matter and to approach the goals set out. Are we talking about one currency for a transfer of electricity or an increase in an equation? I know this job is done at the Ministry and aims to find ways to do this. When, though, can you expect a conclusion from that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u52	Mr. President. This, of course, is a very important factor. A senator comes in here. We've been working on this for the past few months, and that has, in fact, been the case. Displayed certain faults, if I allow myself to use that word, they should have one bill. I want at least I'm sure we're not trying to complicate the system, we're not doing it more ostentatiously, but we're making a simple rule with the change we're going to make. My objective is perfectly clear on my part. I think it's important, and I think there's an agreement on it here, that the cost at the base is equal. This market is not competitive, i.e. The distribution, and as mentioned earlier, the activations are generally in the country. It's a certain absolute reason I'd probably like to look into. The 980 million today are not enough, and we are. to have the exact need for investment in the coming year. So when are we at the top? It's almost born, but I can't tell you which way to go. They need to go their own way and be political support for these changes. But in many places, it seems that it is much more expensive to distribute electricity, even when produced in the next garden, than in other areas. The task will be to find ways, whether the equation rate is up, whether it's for financial purposes or what you can do. In this case, there is, of course, a potential for minor activation and for any changes in the system as it is. It is not that we have just an equation or a budget, and nothing else can be done. I think the system can build up to some extent differently, e.g. so that microengineers are more efficient than they are today, making it more likely to go to such small inducers throughout the earth. I agree with what. A senator, the debate on energy issues over the past few months, hopefully, will lead us to continue talking about it because we're getting busy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about the new creations at the highest level. Minister. However, as soon as I'm glad there's been an increase in contributions to innovation from year to year, it seems to me that the plans presented in a financial program earlier in spring would be reduced to the explanation of the change in policy. However, I am concerned with the tendency of the government to improve the weaknesses of all the markets that we have here with increased government contributions when problems may arise elsewhere. We'll see, for example. in the media market, it is to answer, in effect, the competitive state of the state of the state of the market with increasing Kingdom growth. In innovation and development, the only solution seems to be an extremely disturbing environment of innovation companies to add the GDP rather than to the problem of the currency. There we look at a simple fact that I believe a minister is sharing my concerns with you as we look at the Laboratory's numbers on a number of jobs. We'll see, for example. since 2008 there have increased 20,000 jobs in the business economy, which are positive even though they are only shrinking back to cooling economy. But at the same time, there has been no change in the number of jobs in high-tech companies, in wands and technology companies that we so easily talk about, that our future is based on, the fourth industrial revolution on which we will make so much use of in the coming decades. Nothing's happened in over a decade. How, then, will we ever build up the nation's future work in that environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u54	Mr. President. First, to answer the question about the alleged change in policy, the answer to that is, "No, that's not a change of direction. " We simply looked at the realistic view that it would take time to form this fund. They need a lot of effort, and they also continue their message: Why are we starting it? What should he look like? What demands do we have? How to appoint him? Where are we going to look? etc. That's why we don't really get him started and start investing within this year, and that's why the money is less. The expected funds then take over the following year. In the environment, we stay calm. A senator may not agree completely on currency matters, and we have had that discussion in the past, no doubt under the same criteria as we have now. I believe that the abbreviation of the currency is not everything but an external environment. I think we've been showing the past miseries that we're getting a lot better control over external factors, here it's all about stability, whether it's a labour market stability, stability in politics, etc. and the government's budget in the big picture. These factors influence the development of the currency. I feel it when I go and meet a new business, whether it's big or small, new or old, that there's a certain harmony there, many of them would like to have another currency, so I don't think I'm not going to know it. But the innovation policy we've all been working on is that the environment here is better than ever, and how we get out of the first stage of our newfound Iceland for about ... thefour. [[The president calls.]] I put emphasis on it and aim to make it possible for us to make the environment so that we are specifically picking up such companies and keeping them on land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u55	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers respond, and I second again, of course, I rejoice that there is an increase in contributions to innovation and evolution. I just think to offset the unfortunate business environment, we might even have to multiply them from these plans so that there would be a mismanagement of something in those unfortunate conditions. I'm so happy to hear it. A minister is just listening to the job because I know that it's the highest. Ministers have also worked hard to do so, e.g. working very closely with tourism, creating adequate management conditions. I look to the same thing that happened with innovations and wands. The leg was suddenly pulled away from the competitive position of the industry, not to a small extent because of the currency in 2016, 2017, and into 2018, Iceland was simply a far too expensive country. It's only changing now, but it only underscores the problem that our unstable currency causes our exports, and it shows clearly in the exact presence of wands and technology companies. I'm the highest. A minister is eager to listen to the sector in this regard. It stands out well in most companies on that market that the problem is the currency, its instability, its interest levels, and the companies that are being laid on in the unstable environment, rarely choose to flee. That is why there has been no increase in the number of jobs here in over a decade. Here, very many promising wands came into existence under favorable conditions in a low crown after a crash that has simply chosen to leave Iceland, to build up their operations elsewhere. In such a business environment, a future industry will not be built. I think it's really getting pretty tired.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u56	Mr. President. I strongly disagree that in such an environment the industry will not be built up any more and that will be fully developed. It is true that the currency, the dollar, will swing. Instead, there are factors that are less swinging, such as the level of employment that in other countries are highly swinging despite the stability of the currency. What other options are there? For example, we have much less control than other countries that have that currency. Tourism is a competitive business with other countries where wages are much lower and quality of life is often used in other ways. Of course, there's a reason why there's a lot of pay here. Unstableness is discussed. The fact is that it has diminished, and it is in our hands to keep it in place and to keep it in place as well as interest level. I feel like we've actually been dealing with the problems we face over the years. Over the years, we haven't followed that. We've just been making decisions that we've known exactly where to lead, whether it's at work or not. I feel like now we're fixing it and looking for a long time, and I believe it's gonna matter. Of course, for the companies leaving here, we would never be able to compete with the pay of a computer programmer in Bulgaria or another country where wages are much lower than here, no matter what currency we would have, we couldn't do that. However, there are other factors we have, and there are other countries that have euro and a stable currency but have the same challenges, the same problem that is that when companies become big, they move around. I think that in itself it may not always be bad for a company to leave the country. They need to ask themselves, " Why? ' What factors are here? When is it normal to go somewhere else, etc.? [[The president calls.]] I don't agree that it's full and I don't see that other options would solve all the problems that we face and will continue to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for information on priorities and things. It's been interesting to pay attention. This is a huge Ministry, and there are many projects that are of utmost importance to us as a whole. We've been hearing something like that. in regard to the travel, which has now become the largest part of the establishment of a trust fund and an amazing number of people who have a job with them, the fact that after the collapse of WOW, the movement has been ablaze. Maybe not much bigger in the big context, in view of the fact that here, for example, is the case. It is reported that in hotels, overnight stays simply did not decrease proportionately compared to the number of tourists, but instead it appears that there is a decrease in airbnb. I'd like to know, is there a certain move? The degree of reduction e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister seen in Airbnb, nightly? Might it be possible that the major measures we have taken to improve the design of this service of Airbnb may actually be the reason for this move? Is it not really clear that we are again going up a little bit?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u58	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. Senator, we're seeing a change. After a certain incident, we were drawn up a variety of stage images, and we see a better stage now than many of those who were drawn up. Despite the fact that a number of tourists have intertwined, they stay longer and spend more. We're seeing a recession in Airbnb, i.e. Change into hotels. Of course, it's important to think that you can be registered at the Airbnb even if you're in a registered boarding home, etc., this is not just a home setting. But as far as the home setting is concerned, it's not far from home. A senator tells us that the actions we took produce remarkable results. We put another 64 million on the patrol. It has paid itself and better, in fact, much more, in the form of registration fees, in the form of fines, apart from the secondary effects. An apartment prefers to sell or long - term estate that helps them and balances the competitiveness of the companies who, of course, give everything they have and pay, beyond taxes and fees, for operating. Now that we have established these additions in the future, we have put them on a certain course. In addition, the legal adjustments that the Allied Council agreed to in us that I believe that we will see even more results because we are in harmony with the process. If you're in business and cheat, it's the same procedure you're doing today with a businessman, from a police officer who's gonna have to be prioritised. It's been a real difference if you're in business and you don't deliver your money, and if you're in a home setting and you don't make it back. So now it is being inserted into the same process that I believe will produce further results both in surveillance and in the collection of fines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u59	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, I think we can be quite happy with the results that are getting caught. Then I'd like to mention something interesting too, and it's a tourist market fund. He seems pretty good. This fund now has some 700 million to distribute, so I would like to ask the highest. Ministers how she can see that these funds will be used and how she feels they will be most useful. Like this at the end of the day, there have been many talk of what has been called return visits. We may not have to have them for a thousand. in a letter to get them maybe 2 billion right into their pocket, as it says. So I'm just saying, what's their plan? Is that really not what you're looking at? We could, for example. look to what the New Zealand did and how it returns. At any rate, I don't think it would make the difference whether a passenger would pay a few dollars more for the so - called visits that we would use to build up and protect the vulnerable areas, many of our greatest natural bulbs, which are far above the limit of endurance due to frequent visits. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. We have a somewhat stable and well-developed tourism fund, which, of course, is a competitive fund that works well in the setting of a national programme under the Environment Ministry. There's a government plan, as long as the tourism fund is a competitive trust fund, i.e. private and rural areas, can apply and be distributed. But certain requirements need to be met, and we now put special emphasis on the fact that this is in relation to the DMP work we have been in, the speciality of each area for itself, and that the funds go there. Of course, the structure that has been through the project fund and plan has made a difference, and I feel that now we have the kind of picture that we need, and this really speaks together. First, we worked to initiate a national plan. Besides, there was no money in it, now it's got money on it, so I feel like we're on the wrong track. Then we can make further changes at these destinations, which I think are important, and we can focus mainly on the control that will result in both the security, the protection of nature, and the overwork of these sites, ensuring that visitors'experience is positive. And because they ask for a currency, I believe that one way to do this is to administer it. Hv. A senator specifically asks for a coming or leaving fee and it's been examined. I'm not sure any tourist would put in for 1,000 credits, but it can be controlled when the person is in the country, to form at destinations. Since we've watched one airline go the way it went and a flight plan, both here and elsewhere, I'd say if a airline could raise its plane ticket about 1,000 bucks. has already done so. I think we have to look at it in the big context, not only from the tourist, but also from the way he gets to the country, and then it's important that we have this great flight to the country, and we can't lose it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u61	V.E.G. President. I'm going to review the major issues of the budget bill that are at the department of the Justice Department. There are three causes, first a 2nd number on the courts, 9 counts on the P.S. Security and 10th figures on individual rights. The financial bill gives clear evidence that the government is concerned about the security of the public and the security of the country. We're running out of time, but I'm going to try to get ahold of the major teams and then look forward to participating in some discussions about the Ministry's topic areas. The total cost of the three topic areas is estimated to be 50.90 billion. By 2020, an increase of less than 2.7 billion. in 2019, which corresponds to an increase of 5.7%. As a result of the change in salary and prices, expenses account for a 2% increase. I'd like to begin with the court case, but the overall cost of the topic field is estimated to be 3,384 billion. K. and an increase of 77 million, corresponding to 2.3%. Without pay and price change, expenses equal to 1.2% per year decrease and the main change is 39 million. K. a decrease in the contribution to the Supreme Court due to a reduction of two Supreme Court Status criteria, which is in accordance with General's previous decisions. There is an increasing coordination and harmonisation, the electronic transport of data to increase efficiency, efficiency, and data security, as well as electronic management. They were financed in a financial program, and all of this is in harmony with government policy of simple administration. Then it's a public and justice subject. This total cost is estimated to be 31.009 million. K. and increase by 821 billion. K. between-year, or about 2.7%, but since the end of the pay and prices, expenses decrease by 1% between-year. The real change in individual lawsuits and causes is mainly about over 487 million. K. The maintenance requirement in the current financial programme, but the Ministry decided to protect 244 billion. K. within the framework of the topic field, to soften the permanence requirement rather than perform a new project. At that point, the maintenance phase will reach 243 billion. K. Preservation of three choppers for the National Reservation Guard will continue until now, at this time, a total of 2,100 billion. K. The next year, the project was slightly delayed by the time - consuming induction of new tenants previously in use with the mortgage. However, three new helicopters are now expected to be on the first half of the year and their delivery begins at the end of 2021 or at the beginning of 2022. In a current financial program, it's a financial investment. The construction of the DL is responsible for increasing the level of security and service in search and rescue. Other factors include the introduction of law enforcement programs under this team, efficient border control, and measures to control the financial resources of terrorism. Transient contributions to the 2019 budget to further patrol in the central and tourist areas as well as to action against organized crime and to border surveillance, which totals 570 million. K, is then made permanent. As with other sources of the Ministry, legal instruments are also being built up, focusing on effective and secure services. A respectable president. Third, it is a topic area of individual rights, religion and the administration of the Ministry of Justice. It represents an estimated 16.543 million for the year 2020. K. and up 1,35 billion. K. between 12.5% and 12.5%, respectively. As a result of the changes in salary and prices, contributions are made by 8.9%. Looking back on real - life changes in that category, some 856.9 million are the largest. K. increased contributions to the Church in order to fulfill the church meeting so - called. Then it's 398 million. K. a donation for Presidential elections, 150 million. K. a donation to support the management ground of the county reforms and 137.5 million. K. to the Foreign Institute to increase the number of employees on the reservation and to face changes in the visas. Then, in accordance with government's goals, contributions are turned forward for a maintenance phase, some 290 million. K. I would like to mention the church meeting at the National Church. It is proper to note that treaties between the Icelandic state and the National Church, which include increasing financial independence of the National Church, and therefore this coin comes in here rather than in financial contributions as in recent years. But time is running out, and I hope I have an opportunity to answer questions. Of course, these are issues that affect society in many ways, but the government has largely added contributions to them, especially law enforcement, and in the next year it will continue to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the newest. Minister of Justice for reviewing the sect, which certainly was too short and could not be dropped but the right to the highest stones. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to wish her well - being in this new work. There has certainly been no moths surrounding the work of the Minister of Justice during the years and years, so they have to come there, who is a professional ruler and firm. I was going to ask you at the outset that one point about the police and the police work was especially true. We know that the police work is often very demanding and difficult, and at times police work need to evaluate and make decisions that may be extremely lethal. I review this for a reason that every once in a while there are news of police officers who are being accused of their work. Many people refer to the criminal case of a nurse for a number of sins, since the result was that the person had worked under totally inadequate employment conditions. The question is that police work conditions have often been discussed in this room because of the small police force, police officers are often alone in the country, far in the field, and I'm asking if the highest level of help is involved. A minister has any intention of improving the working conditions of police officers, and if so, who is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, as well as the congratulations. Let me start by saying that, of course, I share these concerns. I know the police officer's job pretty well. I was a police officer in the South for two years and I know the situation. With this government and since the Independence Party took over the police business, there has never been so much money in this country to become law enforcement. We are now on budget beyond what the law had in 2007, but that does not mean that we can't do better. In 2014, we set up additional sources of money on equipment purchases, driving, training, and increasing police officers about 555 million, 2016 about 431 million, 2017 by 1 billion, 2018 by 307 million, and 2019 by nearly 1.5 billion. Of course, this is an amazing increase. In many ways, she began strengthening all the insides of the police, and in many areas, she was particularly lacking, the sex crime, the organized crime, and that was the money fraud. We also need to promote the other law enforcement, but all of this is the general law that we need to maintain as a body. We also need to respond and have responded to pressures as a result of the growth of tourists, who I know have been particularly affected by certain facilities. All of this needs to be checked in order to ensure that police work is successful, that they are comfortable, and that they can carry out their assignments fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u64	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister over the law enforcement expansion. I was asking about the working conditions of police officers. That's when I'm talking about being alone, about their education, their equipment, their automobile options. There have also been reports of the cases faced by police officials that at times they had to make personal compensation. Where else does it go when you have a job, e.g. as a carpenter or something, that you are personally responsible for some neglect of work? So I'm asking the highest question, too. Minister on master responsibility, whether or not she has any excuse to alter the police's ways on this point, master's responsibility for police officers and the State in terms of police work. Actually, I was going to ask a lot of other questions, but maybe I'd start with the county. The U.S. Constitution. Minister I see a bill to legalize the conversion of a minister's warrant to temporarily appoint the districts to five years for someone nearby. i.e. ... overtwooffices. Not long ago, the county office was united, and it became a separation, as it were, at the highest level. Minister knows well. I'd like to ask her for that reason: Is it time to reduce their numbers? It's been four years since we've been through a dramatic change in office, and now I'm talking about the county office in the Western islands where this is true. Is it really so that the branch office should be reduced by this time, four years after changing its environment, giving up to projects to the county, and putting them down this way, with permission to minister, when the law clearly commands that the county be nine on the land? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. With the police, it's one of the many matters that have just come into my desk and I'll take a closer look. I will do everything in my power to increase the sense of security of police officers, which, of course, is the most important. I'm worried that they're alone in a car, and I have to deal with difficult challenges, and I will do everything in my power to keep them safe. The government's policy is that way, and it's been shown by financial contributions to a number of things, so we will continue. For the management of their heads, as is required in a state-of-the-art report, certain weaknesses in the management of the European Commission and the management sector is not sustainable, debt has been collected and services are not in line with expectations such as for each community or administration. The budget bill we're talking about today is 150 million. K. Funding to the offices where we are trying to see if we can make the business self-sustained and stop this record of debt that has been going on, pay down debt, and also increase the digital content of the embellishment that I think is extremely important, especially in 2020. But no matter what office we speak of, our goal is always an improved service to the citizens and a better use of funds. It's simple. With regard to Western girls, there is no money being taken from the Western Islands. They're looking at this whole thing and I'm gonna do it and I'm gonna lay down how we can expand... [[Up front.]] That will not be permanent, but we will consider how we can expand our office. This is one of the projects that are involved in making our office sustainable but mainly contributes to the full implementation of projects in a number of localities across the country and possible jobs without location.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u66	A respectable president. I'm signing congratulations for the highest honors. New Minister. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason just talking about the police. Lately, the police have been extremely violent, as if not missed anyone, and I would like to hear a little at the top. Minister on the importance of the police business and maybe the job of the police. This has been shown by the fact that the police are nowhere for long periods of time in very large areas, but they have suddenly, suddenly, overwhelming presence at other times, even with weapons that are not clearly needed. In large areas of the country, law enforcement needs to be applied long distances, and this creates an intolerable lack of security for the people who live in such places. Not many words have to be said but about the growth of tourists in this regard. I'd like to remind you that in 2009, ten years ago, according to the then judicial minister Ólöf Nordal, the police were 686, but according to the court's answer. Minister of Justice is now 2019 664. This is what it's all about. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to consider with me just whether this trend is good and desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to this in a moment. A senator saying that, of course, the public's safety is always in the highest priority, no matter what the administrative or human resources do. I simply believe that everyone who comes to the table is all willing to have the safety of the citizens number one, two and three. Of course, that is what matters most when we think about law enforcement. There is something else in progress, and hopefully we'll be able to make a success of it. It's about the number of cops. They need to be made aware that there is a special effort to reinvest the police, and there is a special effort to increase the number of police in connection with the treatment of sexual crime, the investigation of interest crimes, the investigation of Internet crime, and the investigation of organized crime. This may not be the type of activity that takes place on the streets, but it also involves office. An increasing number of investigators who are not necessarily trained by police officers. This, of course, is an inevitable trend, but it does make the law grow. We are filling up all the factors that we were not well involved with a few years ago, and our priorities have always been building up the factors that are falling apart, and then we will strengthen everything. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to work hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u68	A respectable president. I'm not trying to downplay the work that many policemen do at a desk and realize it's very necessary. However, it is urgent to increase the number of police at the scene, even if there is no special threat, so that the police are visible, I do not talk about in many communities where there is a long way to go. My second question turns to the Foreign Institute and its financing. She has been very ill at what she is going to do, with the result that people have been waiting very long for a decision and have lived under unsatisfying circumstances. Happily, and hopefully now it is to remedy with increasing financial contributions. But I still want to hear the highest. Ministers only talk about their vision of the role and activities of this institution and whether it can be better handled by applications and how decisions and decisions are carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u69	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, of course, is the most important of all police officers wherever they sit. But I can be very proud, and former justice ministers can be very proud to have raised a large amount of money that has been put on the move. The sex crime and the police part so much as to consider how that case has been handled over the past few years, as well as in a study of large, organized crime because we are not going to leave ours in it. In the case of a foreign agency, funds are being placed in the budget bill to strengthen the protection field that will cover all applications. The Agency's flexibility is being increased in order to increase and decrease the number of lawyers according to the number of applications at a time. I believe that by doing so, we can be more effective in shortening the time to issue applications for the person applying for their application so that they get faster answers without affecting the quality of the cases in which they are handled within the office. It's new this year, and we're going on with it. Of course, we are trying to keep the costs at bay despite the number of applications and shortening the treatment period along the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u70	A respectable president. I want to start with that, like others, at the highest rate. Minister for success in a new office. We know from experience, a member of the General and Education Committee that recently arrived a few years ago, that these are important lawsuits. Although we have not seen things more often than rarely, I think, we agree that we cooperate well with the committee, and I assume that it will continue even if the role has changed. I'd like to mention some aspects of the minister's language. The first is manalion. For a long time, we lived in a situation where there was no use of human action plan. At last this spring, the government's focus on these measures was exposed, and this is then linked with life - making contracts with the labour market partners, which place great emphasis on the struggle against mansellers and social subsidies. There is one point in the program that I find important to remind you of, which is a special man-sale coordination center in order to coordinate practice and practice when a person is suspected. This is something that has sorely been missing in Icelandic administration. The program describes the cost estimates for this team as being paid, but the financial bill does not mention the cost. I'd like to check with the Minister if the cost is present and if the co-ordination centre is financed so that we can get the important piece to the rope in the coming year as planned in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u71	A respectable president. Thanks for that, huh? Senator. With regard to human affairs, there are some funds that have gone to the police in connection with organized violations of this team. There we have been promoting the police, and human halls are essentially part of the organized violation of crime. In 2019 alone, an estimated 80 million were expected. K. ... tothe part of the police that continues. For the report and co-ordination center, it is a work of cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs. The labour markets agree with this. They're working on the cost and the idea of further working with that ministry, and I'm applying myself to it, like any new project in my field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u72	A respectable president. There are other things I'd like to mention, one of those general nature. It's the holding tank, especially in the police field. The volume is 325 billion. K. I believe that the Ministry has softened 163 million on the bill, but there remains a small amount, nearly 200 million in the maintenance requirement of a somewhat sensitive and important field. I simply want to hear from the minister if she has any ideas about where that straddler might land. I'm particularly concerned about the language fields that are new to the police and have been reluctant to establish a routine, such as. The study of sexual violence. And so I'm still sticking with the police, I'd like to ask you something else. Now we've been lucky to celebrate that Iceland has been the most popular destination for foreign nobleman last month. It is reported in the news that the cost of the police in the capital area, the same office, at Mike Pence's reception in over 14 million, and in six million it took to receive Angela Merkel and her Norwegian colleagues. What are the costs? They know anyone who has organized the smallest country ball or any meeting needed by some law enforcement officer to pay the cost. What, though, is the situation when public guests come to the government and cost their office considerable sums of money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. In terms of the law enforcement requirement, we used exactly, like what happened. A senator mentioned, the room in the litigation category to slow down, took it down to about 1%. Of course, there are the same principles in many other areas that involve delicate matters in the budget, namely Land Hospital, etc. Of the 17 billion, this may not be very important, but we should be careful. Hv. A senator specifically mentions sexual abuse, which was made up of contributions, i.e. In addition, it arrived in less than 300 million. K. In the budget of the strategy itself, 80 million were tied to three years of age. As for the arrival of foreign parties to the country, public visits are a general part of what the legal rights to the law are about, and that's all that has come to be said. I'm assuming this is the cost of the police office and we don't have so far a special price for police work. There is no special currency. I guess it's like other public visits, you know, hold within the budget on the police law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u74	Mr. President. I wish the newly appointed minister of justice success in his work. It is a pleasure to come up here to talk to her about the expenses of a class that is certainly, as has been discussed, an extensive and delicate manner. I would like to start talking about the foreign languages and, in particular, a language speed at the Foreign Institute. I see that there is a rise in standard values in the protection field so that you may be able to speed up your application for international protection, it seems as if you read the bill at all times. It's a pleasure to be alone. But I'd like to ask a question in the application for a living permit. Candidates who apply for citizenship and those who apply to us have had to live on it that the duration of the treatment has doubled since last year. In June 2018, this changed since it would take 90 days to get a reimbursement application to 180 days and instead of an application for citizen's rights for six months, it will now take 12. This isn't the time that I think it's natural for us to invite people to a party and would like to settle down here. I'm wondering, Mr. President, if it's the highest. The minister of justice intends to do something about it. I'm also interested in asking the highest. Minister of Justice to the Federal Protection of the Year, but I see that there is so much as no increase to the important fund of this year. There's a figure of 8 million, but I'm actually just one of them. Calculators have never been my strongest aspect, but I see at least that there's not much increase there. I know that Persian protection has had to answer a huge number of queries and has had to put on an enormous amount of stress because of the personal protection program we've already introduced. Because of the complaint of individuals and the position that has come up, she has no room, neither for staff nor for financial resources, to take part in the initiative. [[The president calls.]] Isn't this something to fix?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. For a foreign agency first, it is right to move funds within the Agency as well as to increase them and try to use the flexibility to respond to the increased number of applications for international protection. I guess this will have a similar impact on the rate of matters due to delinquency and civil rights, and I hope so, but I don't know exactly what the situation is in that situation right now. But I hope that in general we can speed up applications and shorten the sentence for everyone's benefit. With regard to Persian protection, its budget has increased from 110 million. K. in 2017 to 305 million. K. in 2020. This is a three-fold increase and is in general for the management of tasks, such as whales. A senator mentions, which results from the new protection order. Of course, experience with the law and scope of the Agency has tripled, as is the case with funding and expansion. When there is more experience in the law, we need to review whether it needs extra money, e.g. In the initiative, and in other matters, in the protection of the Persians. The budget is revised each year, so it is possible to do so at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for this answer, although I might want to hear a little more commitment to not allow people to wait for six months to be granted their deposit application, whether or not they'll add something to when they get new employees into the protection department. I don't think it's gonna happen. We've been told that when we're winning citizenship here at the council that they can't be won properly for us on the part of the U.S. National Institute, because it takes so much time to do conventional administrative applications. But then you hear them on the other side. I don't know if it's enough to add staff to one department when it comes to that important matter. I don't think it's too bad that people have to wait for a year to get their citizenship application paid or paid for six months to get a permanent application. But that's enough. I wanted to ask about the county too. I see it's to improve electronic administration and go to some form of work there. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it stands to promote the justice of the citizens of the county. I'm concerned that when the county official in the capital area puts a restraining order on a press agency two weeks before election, and it has been confirmed before the courts and other courts that this may have affected the democratic elections in Iceland. It's very serious. Is there a basis for improving the knowledge of justice of the county service? They also agree that there are repeated accounts of children being left together with a violent parent, even when there is another judgment. This is the county office to order. Even when a parent's assessment of violence by a child's experts lies behind something that the county's office calls unclehood to force children to associate with violent parents. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: What are you going to do to improve your sense of justice and knowledge within the county office? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u77	A respectable president. In the case of a foreign agency, I hope that we can simplify our therapy and establish an electronic system to speed up all this treatment, no matter what sort of group it is inside the Agency, increase electronic transport to data, safety and transparency. It is entrusted to the judicial hearing and it also introduces the management of the National Institute of Iceland. I have strong hopes that it can shorten the Agency's entire trial period. Regarding politicians, there is a greater context of how we can improve our service to citizens, their legal protection, and the better use of funds, especially with more electronic government for the benefit of everyone. This is one of the projects that are on my level, and I will take a very close look. It may also be that there may be too many cases on the table of one businessman and a number of projects that we would need to distribute and do better in a particular way as well. A senator mentions. This, of course, is something that I will look into in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The Minister of Alegan Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, congratulates her and congratulates her on her career. We will discuss budgetary issues in 2020 and the language fields recommended by the Ministry of Justice. I will continue to some extent with the exception of conversations in the above, but I welcome the aims of funding for digital intensification specifically and thereby for improved civil services, believing that better use of government funds will be gained by increased digital management and interactive information. In December 2018, the Government's review of a report on the treatment and procedure of the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland, carried out at the request of the General Assembly. One of the main results of this report is that there can be an improvement in plan and effectiveness in the management of applications in the Foreign Institute, as well as a shortening of the duration of the treatment by implementing a better information system and using an electronic application procedure. All applications to the Foreign Institute are now returned on paper for any sort of license, whether it is visas, visas, or application for international protection. At the same time, the workers in the living area have increased by 134% and the number of other applications has increased very much. To date, the changes have been made to the point of action and temporary financial management, but they have not been made to the necessary sources that are being looked forward to for longer periods of time. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister to review only the key benefits of the introduction of electronic administration in general, both for public and government users, especially in foreign affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before, and everything is right. Senator. There is a very important work going on, and a long time, so to speak. We spend our money working on all of the government's institutions, and this is especially in my office where we can do so much better if there is going to be an increase in electronic management. You're right next door. A senator, this is not just for us to do better with money and to get an opportunity to use it in other ways, to increase money because of increased electronic administration, but, of course, for citizens, for better and more efficient services, to get answers from the administrative department, to access information and data, or to ask for whatever it may be. I think there's a lot of opportunities there, and I can't wait to see what comes out of that job. Hv. A senator and former minister, Sigríður Á. Andersen, filed a case on e - mail, and it is now becoming a reality and is funded in many ways on the budget bill. I look forward to seeing how that good thing comes forward because I think everyone agrees on what came to that issue, either side of the table they are, that they are quite out of date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and are pleased to see when they respond to the comments of the State's Accounting and the General Information. I would like to direct it to a minister if it could inform us about when we could expect foreigners to submit electronic applications. As we have seen, electronic management can lead to more jobs without location, and this can also increase equality regardless of the location. She adds services to her professional life, and so on. However, electronic information systems are not the answer to everything. It is not the solution to all the things we need to improve. In March. A state re-examination report on the countys, compared with the state of the Union. In the management and monitoring committees on the report, the Ministry of Justice informed that there was a vision of the future for the county office and its members, including the Court's work, to the Commission's work. It also stated that while the information technology was indeed a key to reforming a number of administrative projects, they always require close contact with citizens and individuals need to be able to communicate with them. This discussion of the administrative office also shows that there is no detailed and detailed information on the scope of government projects designed to be implemented effectively and effectively and in line with national services. I would like to encourage the minister to speed up that work and see the evidence in financial terms that this project is being carried out. But I would like to ask, "How is work involved in modeling a vision for the office? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I'm sorry, but I don't quite know how work is involved in any foreign government. I know, though, that she's in progress, and I'm sure she's going fast, and I'm sure she'll end a lot of opportunities in it. You're right. According to a senator, there is an opportunity to work independently of the estate and such, but the county is by nature the executives of the European Commission in the provinces or in territories so that a successful and efficient service can be obtained. We need to think about all of this in connection with our goal, i.e. Adding services to citizens, more and more, the more efficient use of funds, the opportunities we have of digital justice, and the more efficient information and so forth. A vision of the county office is in progress. I've already requested a hearing on the case at the Ministry and I will be the sole one to win it. This must also be done in cooperation with everyone and all concerned. But I think there's a lot of opportunities to strengthen our office, to strengthen the territories, but especially to strengthen the civilian service, and to see how we can do so even more during the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u82	Mr. President. September 6th. it was for many things that were important. That's when they got to the top. Minister of Justice to his office, and I congratulate her on that. On that same day, a report on the state of the Church was submitted compared to other religions, and that same day a new church meeting was signed. The financial bill shows that a considerable increase in money is spent in order to meet that agreement. Of course, the agreement has much to say. First, there is the trend that has been involved in the State Church. According to Economics'figures, the number of members of the State Church has decreased proportionately. Since 19983/42008 there has been a relative reduction, but since 2009 there has been a decrease in number, i.e. The number of members of the National Church has been directly reduced, and it has been since 1998, with over 65% of 90% in the National Church. I must ask the highest. The Minister of Justice on her opinion of the agreement and of whether it is acceptable to consider that there is an increase in contributions to the Church of America at the same time as it is evident that there is a great decrease and there is no evidence that there is a turning point, and then there is, in some cases, an increase in contributions to the Church of Nations that although everyone would disappear from the Church, a commitment for the State would still be made to pay 90 priests and bishops. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. It may just start and bet that the funds that now enter the budget may be extra because of this agreement have been used in budgets previously. There is a better chance that this particular vision has been established, one of the agreements we can follow, so there is no increase in money between years unless it is all spoken of as the law of the law. The new agreement involves a high financial independence of the National Church. I think that is positive when state and church agree to simplify the legal environment and arrangements of the business and the pay that the Church receives from state funds and was signed by the declaration of its will. The major change in this is the church's acceptance of all its employees and personnel matters, and it is assumed that the laws on the pay of parish priests and their additional works will be canceled now and that the church will follow itself, e.g. a bill for the clergy's side of the State. All of this, I think, is improving, and we are taking a major step toward becoming a religion that is primarily responsible for itself and for its own business and finances. Like what? A senator mentions the church's support of the Icelandic State as laid down in the constitution, but on this contract it is very remote from being a government agency. However, laws on status, government, and conduct of the National Church will be expected to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u84	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I agree with her that in itself this is a fine step taken by moving, what to say, the responsibility for the administration of these funds and funds to the church itself. I think it's fine, and I prefer to think that there must be a step toward fully separating the law and the financial state and the church. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice whether she still feels the same way as has been shown in her case, in fact, before she became a minister, about the church's position against the State, and whether this very long contract that has now been made does not allow enough room to begin working at once to achieve full separation in which religions and societies themselves are responsible for their own affairs, and the state does not hold any objection. I think it's very important to start that job, and as I said I think it was a good step that was taken with the church meeting. But I think it's important to keep doing this because whatever it is that church population that was under - and maybe at that time owned the whole nation, because it was indeed a national church, so we were moving it from one pocket to another -- that situation is no longer there and that has to be changed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u85	A respectable president. Yes, I see the Church becoming independent, and with this contract it's being made more independent and it's all about to be financed primarily. I think this agreement may be a good basis for continuing, which has been very difficult because it has been unsolved how these matters should be handled. It is also important to consider what the church is doing. Of course, there are a number of social and welfare issues that the church does from day to day, so we need to ask ourselves, " What are our financial contributions really for them and for religion? ' The church has played and plays an important role in discussing with all the people of the land how to do so. It is clear, though, that the contract involves a huge increase in financial independence from the State Church, which provides a basis for how we can view the National Church primarily as a religion, not a government organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u86	A respectable president. First, I would like to congratulate the new Minister of Justice on the new assignment. We hope for the best, and we have no reason to believe that it will show the same boldness and effort in that field as it has so far. There's one thing I've been very interested in, one of many because the seminaries of the Minister of Justice are huge, like the natural world around here. They depend on the security of our citizens and so many other cities, but I especially want to address the addiction that we now face. There's a total cocaine epidemic in this country, frankly. Police watching this are more aware than we are in general of the trend in the community, which is responsible for drug and demand for drugs. When you face it, and we all see and have to admit that there's an epidemic in some area, I'd kind of like to point it to the highest level. Minister of Justice whether such action needs to be dealt with by very powerful measures, something far more powerful than that, as the Minister of Justice rightly pointed out, the donation has been made. Is there not some means of giving even more? We're losing our young people in front of our eyes in an incredibly sad way, and it's in our hands now and the highest. Minister of Justice, in cooperation with the government, the nature of the case in accordance, to do something really radical in matters, as radical as the disaster is really what we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before, and that's exactly what I'm talking about. This is a major problem in Icelandic society that calls for a very large number of agencies to respond, and I know that there are many agencies that work together to do it and each one in particular to respond to it. It's not just the law. Of course, we can mention that public law enforcement and law enforcement because of organized crime has been promoted to take on major offenses and will continue to increase, but this will no less contribute to welfare, education, internal prevention, health systems, and so on. It's in the range that I think we can further intervene and recognize that there are many health issues involved. Similarly, law enforcement needs to be done. I am confident that the government will put matters in high priority in all of these areas that are, in fact, under the name of... Four Ministers and Ministry. I think it's the cooperation that will bring us real results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u88	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. I understand that she, as the law, should view the matter as a whole, the nature of the matter. But I'd done it in her Ministry, where I can see the need to step in and then it's the natural police to do it, she's better equipped to do it than the rest of us, and I've been able to map the situation much better than we do, but I call for more power or power to concentrate more fully on the situation. Then I'm not talking about pulling in on the whole thing now, like the highest. A minister would rather deal with the disaster today. It's now that we're facing this trollapon, this cocaine epidemic, and we've been dealing with the opioids too. Our police are finished and could do much more if they really had the opportunity to build it up better. Then she can step in a lot harder, I believe. Now I feel like there's a problem, today, not tomorrow, not a vision, not how to build up for the future, which is really great, too. But now the fact is exactly this: Today, there is an epidemic in the country. And what's the highest. Will a minister of justice be willing to make such a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u89	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says the country's police is a complete man. She copes with very many aspects of her daily activities, and this is one of them. I'm very interested in looking into it and getting ahead of what the police are doing right now, considering how the projects have changed, two years ago. What's new on the tables? Are there larger jobs, larger gangs, and so forth the streets that we're watching and being assigned to the police? That's how I want to look at it. I reiterate my view that I am talking not only about the future when I mention projects in other counselors but about how we view the problem. We're raising money to law enforcement, but I also think it's a lot of health business, and we need to look into those who have an addiction and see it that way, not just that it's a police practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u90	A respectable president. In short, I'm going to explain the key points of a bill for the 2020 budget in terms of the topic fields under my department. According to the bill, the total cost to the two related areas below is total, i.e. Agricultural and marine habitats are less than 24 billion, allowing some 7.3 billion to travel to the seabed and to fish farms, and about 16.6 billion to the agricultural sector. In the fishing business, however, the main focus is on the growth of basic research and on improving management, monitoring, and health requirements in fish farms. For the basis of the studies, it is strictly recommended that about 750 million is recommended. K. a donation to research and investments. The number is 600 billion. K. contributes to the construction of a new ocean study vessel, which will greatly enhance all basic research. A total of some 900 million were spent on two budgets for this assignment. A special construction committee has been appointed, and it has already made a contract with the Kingdom Hall to negotiate an assignment for the boat. However, it is 150 million. K. contributes to the Marine Research Agency due to recovery of contributions from the Marine Water Fund to the Agency. That contribution comes in an additional 250 million. K. ... thisyear. It is proper to appreciate some of these increases, since the recent problems have been discussed with regard to budgetary contributions to the Sea, which was designed to shed clear light on the weaknesses of the Agency's spending budget in the past few years, particularly the fact that the Agency has been taken specially from the Marine Work Fund. These revenues have dropped to a great extent in recent years, but the next year's budget is finally changing this arrangement in a way that ensures the Agency's density 400 million. K. to a fixed income that is somewhat equivalent to or more of the money that the Seal received from this specified fund. This is my very positive step for the operation and hopefully strengthens her work. Regarding the management, monitoring, and health requirements of fish farms, it is worth noting that we plan to strengthen the monitoring and management of the Fish fire Food Agency, as well as setting up an electronic port for publication of information. We also expect to raise the budget in the marine farm fund, which has the primary objective of minimising the environmental impact of marine farms. Finally, at the end of the seabed talk, I would like to remind you that at the end of the year, the Oceanographic Institute receives additional donations for housing, which is moving to a new home in Hafnarfjörður soon thereafter. For agricultural matters, most of these are fixed. Naturally, our expenses are linked to the existing domestic agreements at any given time and such so that we now have farm contracts until 2026. The budget agrees with that agreement, and it was signed in February 2016. The main news in this area is a food security prevention strategy, the protection of farms, and the competitiveness of domestic food production. That this action has been performed for a long time. The financial bill will trust their progress, since all of them have been financed. It should be noted in these matters that, as the synonym assumes, I will return a report on November 1, where the situation will be reviewed. I'd like to mention it here, assuming that an electronic website will be developed so that atollovate management agency will be electronic. However, the biggest change in administrative and economic policies is that we are moving the work of the Office into the Ministry and its main objective is to promote both management and agricultural and food policy, not only by increasing the number of workers in the Ministry's sector but also more closely to link responsibility to the implementation of those projects that fall under the agricultural contract, to place them all in one place in the administration and seek to develop administrative facilities in a different way than it has developed. years. In the bill to finance, arrangements are made in line with this change, but in other respects I refer to the subject field in the bill available here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u91	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for his talk on the important issues he is directing. It is hardly to remember that we talked here this spring about importing raw meat or non-fried meat. The decision of the most advanced scholars and scientists and veterinary surgeons is to become very dangerous because of falling away from freezing duty, a month's theft at minus 18°C. We have been misled in this situation by the EFTA Court's sentence on contract violations from Iceland. That's very detailed in the bill at the highest level. A minister to whom he put forth effort to do that and should be grateful for the detailed report on that bill. The EFTA Court did not respect public health or the health of livestock. Those views were respected by Vettergis. Stefán Stefánsson has repeatedly discussed this judgment in his textbooks, the last of the legal journal that describes it in detail, along with his associate Margrét Einarsdóttir, that it is simply wrong. Visitors at a job station expressed great concern about the funding of the project as high as the highest level. A minister used himself to counterbalance. Therefore, it is time to enter a minister according to their actions and especially their funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, I'd like to mention here that at the Icelanders, these are not the circumstances for the Supreme Court of Iceland or the EFTA Court. Under the circumstances that the Icelandic government made these contracts in 2003-03/2007 in such a way that they opened the way for the move to the country of all species and types, and the only condition that they set up in those contracts was that living livestock would not be moved to the country. That was the deal. And because the Icelandic government made these contracts during those years, Iceland's Supreme Court ruled in the way he did. We may disagree or agree with these judgments, but the Supreme Court is now our high court. Hv. A senator asks how this is done. We agreed to a council resolution in the spring of 17 teams. That's what I'm gonna say to what. A senator, who has been working on this project for a long time, over a year, in my department because of the fact that there was a complete awareness of where it was headed, how Iceland's contract was in that area or situation in court. These are, as I could about, 17 operations. They are all in one way or another employed and financed this year, and the funding obtained in this year's budget stays in the budget of the next year, although they are added in part, especially to the level of funding for the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u93	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for his speech and I review it as his Ministry is in the bill. The main projects 2020 are reviewed by Marine and Fishing Health Monitoring, followed by a review of 5.3% of fish markets and settlements. What I'd like to ask the Minister to include. is a way out of the world of Scaring, since 2012. That was a contract when Scaring collapsed in Bárfyfjörður 2003. For some year, compensation was paid, which would then be removed, and when it came to it, people each year began to be forced to attend these benefits because it had really not been established. At a time when these were placed in a quota, the person had to give up, or give up, the codfish or share. I know they're really worried about it right now, just for a job, if the Minister's got some work to do with it. Though they're back in shell fishing, they're not doing very well. It's not a very good look. The members involved want to know if they can get their cod values back that they were not given in 1984.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry does not take place in the budget bill for 2020, since we do not enter the individual category of sources that attract 5.3% of resources. That's what we expect on the bill, if that's what it is. A senator may be aware that the system as it is running unchanged. This does not change our view of possible changes in all of this arrangement. One factor involves that point. A senator mentioned, the self - imposed shell models of ten years, but it has been extended year by year. The plan was that it was a temporary situation, that they hoped to see it through the ten years, but it hasn't. I know about these concerns. I've had meetings with the pre-surgents and related agents of this project that is being carried out on the Snæfellsnes, and my answers to those topics are very clear. I understand the point of the view, and I can totally agree with it in many ways. You will not react until the work the Ministry has started and see some overall picture of how to handle these factors. It wouldn't be right for me to give some expectations for the premeditated conclusions here. I'm quite ready to look at these views, but it has to be done in full agreement with the rest of the pots because what's moved inside this whole system, and I know that why. A senator well knows this, is taken from someone else, and is moved to another. I've answered it this way when these parties have come to consider this in the overall context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u95	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to the fish-fishing operation. According to my opinion, the Report of the State Re-examination issued a review of the resource and, as a matter of fact, a fishing agency manager had reported in the media before the report was published that the Agency did not have the authority to perform its legal functions. Of course, this is extremely serious. V.E.G. After the report, the minister decided to put together a team of workers to review, both sea and port, and it is quite clear that this vast amount of funds must be put in place, more than I can see at least in the budget bill for 2020, if the fishing resource is to be added. It matters very much, not just to protect the interests of the resource owners, but to know exactly what we are catching out of the sea, i.e. how we handle the resource, and have sufficient perspective on the situation. I can't see, Madam President, that they're putting the money on to Fish Room necessary to meet the expectations of improved surveillance. In fact, it's made up of prisoners, not only in the Fish Room, but also in the Food Institute, but both of these clinics are also designed to play an additional role from what is happening this year. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have some funds that will reveal that he will be able to use to improve his surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. They may find some conclusion about this. But I assure you, we can, as I've said many times, continue to make money in government surveillance agencies. They always call for it. There is no agency that has required less or less money, but it is dosed on the budget of each year. I'm not necessarily in the same place as what. A senator that will solve all of this by injecting money in there. It doesn't necessarily have to be. I don't know the location of the staff in which they are working, and I haven't heard that they have come to the conclusion that they have to make a formal budget for the job. However, I plan to wait until the work ends, and the working group gives me some results. Then let's lie down. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator points out that there is no direct increase in budgets because of the organizational changes that may arise in connection with the work there, and I agree. A senator writes that there is urgent work to be done. On the other hand, I allow myself to assert that the problem with the fishing operation is not just bound up with financial resources. It is also bound to what we can see in a report published by the National Reviewer, that there are a number of aspects of the project, about the need to improve. It is true that there is a delay in Fishing Room and Food Institute, like all other government institutions, it's just stuck and fixed, and it's going all the way over everybody. We just have to face it while there's no other choice. Asked if there are any growling funds to cover the budget. It's not. There are certainly some pots here and there, or museums that are called, and decomposed funds. [[The president calls.]] It may be possible to take this action if there is a basis for the job as a cause. A senator quoted earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u97	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers, although they did disappoint me, I suppose we'll discuss these matters better later at this legislature. It is the policy of the government that by the year 2040, by the time I remember the year, and I think it is quite obvious that it will be done only by broad measures. One of these changes are eating habits. In this it is important, and it has been shown several times in speeches, including dose should be administered at the highest level. Prime Minister, that governments lead the chariot, and how governments lower the signals and encourage it to achieve this goal is of vital importance. That is why I am disappointed that I do not see increased funds for promoting Icelandic vegetable culture. I can't see it. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to tell me where it is if there's a spot in the budget bill. It lacks motivation to improve lighting and to improve performance. There is no motivation for the development of existing greenhouses, older greenhouses. There is no motivation to build new ones. The electric concentration and generation bridge between older farmers and younger farmers lack stability so that renewal will occur and motivate new species to grow. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he doesn't agree with me that's where the emphasis is. I notice in the bill that more is put into cattle farms than for gardening. That is not entirely in harmony with the climate discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'm just gonna ask them again, "Can we find something like this in the joint, "new creations," etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u98	A respectable president. I know we what we're doing. A senator agrees that we don't like public funds. That's why I say, there's no difference between the added funds and that we can work better in these measures if we haven't defined in advance to which section we're going to spend the money we're going to take from the public and the company. In terms of climate, carbon balance, and other factors, the government has a very good plan for it, fully funded by considerable funds. Where farmers can pick up and other employment projects. We are also on my side of the Ministry, with official policy for buying public parties on food, which takes full account of the emphasis the government has placed on climate. What does she do? Yes, it creates Icelandic manufacturers, especially those in the vegetable industry, a prerogative advantage over foreign production. We need much more to introduce this policy into all the trades in public institutions, and that recommendation is directed to all forms of advice, and I really hope it will be taken into account because the government has agreed to these views and I trust it and know that ministers are pushing along these factors. There is also a food policy model for Iceland, which will take into account these issues as well. I think we should see No. One, two, and three of them stress how we can earn more of what we already have before we start calling for more money. I'm not sure that unless we had predetermined how to use them and what to give back to money there, we would have no reason to be wise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u99	Madam President. I'd like to go to food policy in Iceland, as the minister mentioned earlier. V.E.G. The minister stressed in his talk on the debate of Prime Ministers that a simple and efficient rule of work for the sake of employment and the public and that there is a running, time-to-day strategy, on a simple rule of action. Food producers have had a lot of discussions around the country on how to increase food supply and full - time production and the value at home in the region, and production will become as near as possible to consumers. I recently met at the House of Vesperau, where food producers had come from a wide range of places, and these were discussed with me on this subject and the project on the Mat Red West. There was a large local meeting in Varmahlumved in Skavegur, and it also discussed how products could be used as best possible in the province and how to increase the value there could be. We know that out of the country, there is a lot of food production, both in agriculture, in fishing, in agriculture, and in the fish farms, and I want to hear how a minister makes sure that the Ministry can work directly with representatives in the country, national parts, and stakeholders to increase its full - time development and usefulness. Of course, it fits well with the government's policy on environmental and climate issues, as a minister has established, that a healthy and good and varied supply can be offered as close to consumers. I'd like to hear what a minister is making a living on these topics regarding the implementation of this strategy at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We'll soon introduce you, me and the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation, the strategy we've put before the government, and we're looking at a simple rule of action. With regard to what turns my back, I look first to see to it that I'm going to see to it that the jungle of Regulations, which is in many languages that are falling under my department, and hopefully introduce it to you soon. It is also necessary to perform specific laws, but the biggest problem in this area or what may be most complex is these so - called monitoring regulations, which are based on laws on various institutions that are being heard by the Ministry. In particular, it is difficult in many ways to find out about the Food Institute, which includes the need for food and drink. That's what it's all about. A senator mentioned, about emphasis. How do governments face the emphasis that is often heard in the region, that we can use the production better, and that we can work at home and eat? I've given orders in the Ministry and in the Food Institute, and I've been working on all means to simplify monitoring regulations that prevent slaughter from taking place in smaller units. There's a lot of demand for that, including. From the organization of sheep farmers and private farmers. That has been a priority in my mind, since it has been called for a long time. However, it has to be admitted that there is a misunderstanding in this article, and I am invited and sought all the ways in which this can be paid to do so. Still, we must not compromise health requirements or anything like that, there has been no emphasis in my department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u101	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think there are a lot of means for food producers around the country. A minister came, e.g. Enter a slaughterhouse, and there are absolutely the same requirements for small and large slaughterhouses. I know that in the Faeroe Islands, there are many small slaughterhouses that are near production and meat for home markets, from farms. It is the origination of the meat produced there, and I believe we could learn a lot from the Faeroes in that subject. We know that, as we say, there is so much to goobs, which produce food and sells. Is it not proper to try to get this on the surface, to do so according to the right rules? No one's ever died of it, I think, eating the production that's homemade, and I think health requirements can be very good, even if they're from a smaller slaughterhouse, from a farm. I like to hear that they're working on the Ministry and think it's very important. The minister also mentioned in his talk on Wednesday night that the goal was to carry out assignments. I'd like to hear where those emphasis lie. We know that many countries are building large quantities of fish and, of course, food production is in both fishing and agricultural areas around the country. I'd like to know if we'll see where the institutions will become a source of support for monitoring and research in food production in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u102	A respectable president. The Senator was in a lot of places, so I don't know if I can get over everything, but I'll try to get close to it. First of all, big, small slaughterhouses demand. Yes, they are, in many respects, like in many respects, the same, especially the quality requirements for the products to come out of such works. Other situations that may involve how you plan your work, etc. Surely we must examine whether we can somehow remedy that situation. I've also noticed about Faeroe Islands. Although I don't know what rule they're working within, I had the privilege of being in the Faeroe Islands in the last fall. There I came to a restaurant in small settlements, but it wasn't just a restaurant, it was run as a slaughterhouse, and it was working together. We were not harmed by the well - being of our cousins in the Faeroe Islands. The question is, What do you want to do? Yes, I see in many of the things given to me that the agencies of the Ministry often think of a certain act of law, and it must be built up within the ranks of the established institutions. It's a perfectly normal thought, but I think we can do it every once in a while. Hv. A senator mentions the fish fire. Is there any need for a food clinic in that case to have their people checked or checked out? Would it not be closer to offering such a project or to assign some of the companies or individuals who are interested in it in the area where the industry is growing? [[The president calls.]] I say, yes, we're supposed to strive to get this kind of work where we come from, and I think we're going to do it and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u103	President. There was this bill that was agreeing to fish farms in spring, and I pointed to a point that was the reason why I couldn't vote with it, including ... oftheprecautionsandtheprecautions rules. On the one hand, the rule of caution is that nature should always enjoy the doubt, and the cost rule, that those who are to be contaminated should pay. I didn't think it was safe there. But as for the precaution, that nature enjoys the doubt, some highly successful executives told the case so that in many ways I add, the majority pointed to the fact that much emphasis was placed on fish farming and when it comes to the committee's work, the Advislation Committee, the Prohibition Committee, is repeated that it should be up to improve the monitoring, etc. They wanted to deny that this would be to the point that money would be guaranteed to take care of it so that it would be the best way to feed the country and that nature would enjoy the doubt. I'd like to ask the Minister. When the budget bill was won and in the budget bill we have in front of us and talks today, it says that the contribution of the state funds is a total of 103 million. K. improved management, monitoring, and health requirements in fish farms Is that enough? Was it based on the grounds that we made with the laws about fish farming? That's the interpretation information the committee offers about the law. Was the Commission's opinion on the monitoring and on the Food Agency that visited the Committee and discussed what would be needed? Is 103 million sufficient to fulfill the will of the Committee and the will of the Lawgiver when it comes to the control of fish farming?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is the second inquiry I now get about whether there is enough to monitor, of course not in the same field as this. I always answer the same question: If the institutions involved are asked, they'll never say they've had enough money, they don't need any more checks. The tendency is that a person who supervises the operation naturally wants to make sure that he is fully secure and has the legal responsibility to fulfill the law on him. It usually lacks money in the opinion of those in charge of the institutions. According to them, this is not enough money. I say, this is what the Council proposes, and every year it establishes by the law of the council and by the frameworks of our work. In my talk earlier, I mentioned that we have 175 million benefits in changes in administration, increase and support of surveillance, and other factors that are about to deal with this harsh demand from the General Act of the Act to take good care that this new industry grows to the very best of the terms of the environment. It is the status of the institutions of the state, as well as of the Ministry to build a certain knowledge, which may not have been exaggerating. We're setting up an electronic portal for the release of information available to the public and can also monitor them. This was what we were dosed in 2019. The bill will be improved in 2020, and I'm happy to do so, because we're building this article on the grounds that we're going to try to do it in the most acceptable environment of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u105	President. Then we know that what is said on the committee - the committee is given information on what needs, including what is needed. From the Food Agency and other surveillance providers - does not enter the budget bill. This is what you were worried about. I mentioned it in a talk when the matter was being discussed about fish farming at the Assembly Hall. It is a recurring problem, it has been ignored in most cases when it comes to the policy of the government in which the Independence Party sits. You've seen it. It's part of the booth, part of what needs to be reduced. As a result, I said in a talk that scares me, I don't trust it, no matter what you say on a professional committee, even after getting information about what it takes for nature to receive the doubt. And no, it didn't take anything, they didn't ask for money forever. That was enough, they said what it took to do this surveillance. I've been trying to find out what I'm talking about, but I'm gonna talk it over on a professional committee when we get reviews. But no, there were some X-values needed, there was some X-gt; it took to monitor fish farms so nature would enjoy the doubt. There was an X-number. I find it interesting that she didn't return to the table and that the minister experiences it as if there's never enough, that there's always been more to ask for. No, it was an X-number. I suggest the Minister to speak to the head of the professional road committee about this, what it was as a patrol member, who introduced the committee in the processing of the fish farm, thought it was enough, was some X-number. If the committee is to be able to keep up with what it says in the Hall on what it needs to be done in order to be monitored, this must be true, for otherwise it cannot be trusted in what the committee says in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u106	A respectable president. I trust a professional professional worker's commission with great confidence in his role. She has done a very good job and has worked very hard, for example. The work involved in the legislation of fish farming. She put a lot of work into it, a good job, and at a good time. A senator can agree on this. In budgetary budgets, there are expected to add jobs to monitoring at Food Organization. I don't know how many jobs and other activities the director of the Food Agency had, but I know it's time to strengthen the surveillance of the Food Agency and the Marine Fund and all of this about 175 million. K. It can be done considerably. I'll allow me to question that claim. The senator to monitor any aspects of security, whether in nature or in society, contracts or ignores each other when the Independence Party is in the government. [[Up front.]] Fortunately, the Independence Party has never been alone in the government, so I don't know how. A senator would come to such a conclusion or would be able to claim it, slang that way into the air without any support. That is a strong claim, a very strong statement, which, according to this statement, rages. A senator sits here in the air with no logic. But only because it was convenient. A senator kicking a little in the Independence Party, he did. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u107	A respectable president. We're discussing budgets for 2020, and I'd like to clear up the agricultural sector. I believe we are in a better place after approval of that operation, but we had the cryo-concerning conditions for food safety in this country. The council's payment yielded an arrangement that included 17 measures to ensure wholesome food and protection of local livestock stocks. There are bans on the distribution of meats containing Campylobacter and Salmonella and measures to prevent spread of antibacterial-resistant foods. Food, food, food, food, food, food, food, and seeds have been prescribed, and a diet for food is recommended, as well as an addition to the information provided for tourists. The Committee of Risk Management Board is part of a government plan of action, aimed at promoting food security and securing the protection of domestic livestock stocks. To achieve 17 measures in this process, a few jobs must be carried out in the construction of regulations, so I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister of how this work works in the Ministry and in general, how to proceed with the Action Programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Work on this began six months ago, and it's been going well. The Ministry's staff has been very quick to sort out the issues raised in questions or other aspects of life throughout this time. Also, the agencies under the Ministry have heard, and it involves us in these matters for a year and a half, as I say, so there is nothing new about it for us. Work's going well. We already have regulations, and because of what. A senator mentioned the order of the Risk Management Board that now lies in it is probably under law for a decade, but it had never been established for some reason despite the opportunity for many agricultural ministers to set it up. We will, according to the Parliament's resolution, recognize the progress of our programme on November 1. and will be happy to do so because we have many of these projects that are well - organized and that can be a good report in those topics. In some cases, we need to deal with very complex regulations on the continent. Similarly, we need to cooperate with other key measures to resolve certain tasks. All right, all right. I don't know if we'll be in port by November 1, but we will, of course, report the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u109	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and motivate him in these matters. The minister knows that he has the full support of our candidates and the encouragement to take action. Second, in the spring council, an ambitious bill for fish farming was adopted, which is to be given firmness and the growth of the nation's sector. If the funds are kept well, they will return much of the money to us as a local company. Among the changes that were made were legalizing counterweight measures to be taken into account by law - enforcement agencies. An example of counterweight measures is the use of larger fish from nearby rivers, smaller grids, light controls, river monitoring, and a fishing facility for removal of fish from nearby rivers if landowner's authority is available. This will make sure that you can be protected, e.g. wild strains in the depths of Ishafjörg will begin building a fire at Deep. Is this a very large step towards the development of sustainable fish farming with Icelanders? Despite the fact that these laws have become valid, the publication of the new risk assessment in Isafjörður has been inadequate, so I would like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister if he has any news of that work. A big question is asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u110	A respectable president. Yes, the fish - fire legislation was a major turning point. Its biggest breakthrough is a relatively simple sentence that turns to Iceland as the only country in the world that has legalized the risk of genetic mixtures, which is an enormously important, huge statement that we want to make a considerable effort to protect our natural species, salmon fish, and this seems to me to be the essence of this law. We have, however, fallen into the discussion of remuneration or any other factors in my mind that are not quite as important as the great declaration involved in the legislation of the risk preparation of genetics. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks me when the risk assessment is at hand, I don't know exactly. However, it is clear that a Merit Research Institute needs to take into account the factors set up in the bill and the driving process. A senator traced just fine what counter measures it is. This is different from the basic previous risk assessment carried out by the Institute of Marine Research, and it should, of course, take into account the views set in there by the council. The last time I spoke to the director of the Marine Research Agency, they were only in the middle of the world, they were doing their job, but I don't know when they're planning to finish this. I don't want to say anything about it because I don't have a full knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u111	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance history, as well as others, rejoice that measures are being taken to strengthen the competitiveness of Icelandic food production. I would, like a doubtless number of people here, would do well if the improved competitiveness was also new to allow the article to compete a little more. It's hard always to train and not get a chance to go for a contest. On the other hand, I wondered about other factors related to the agriculture that are unbroken during today's discussion, the climate. I wondered in the discussion of the future development of support systems for agriculture whether it is on the agenda of this government to improve the policy-making of climate support systems. I refer to the obvious harmony there can be, for example, that we are. talking about the goals of the restoration of wetlands and forestry, and of course, changing land use. The question is, How can the agrienvironmental support system be mixed up directly? Second, I notice that more research is being done on agriculture. Then there is a big issue in the climate article, and it is the agricultural carbon spor of the European food supply, since we are happy to talk about the benefits of domestic food production in this regard. The fact is, though, that we have no evidence, and I wondered if a minister intends to have some study of the carbon track of food production so that we can receive comparable data on the benefits of domestic food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's useful inquiries. He says he has no objection to allowing the agriculture to compete more. Yes, yes, I also advocate competition in as many areas as possible, but I would point out that agriculture promotes the view that it is also competing with the foreign food product that we bring in here, the production that is also being paid for. That is his viewpoint, and farmers have produced evidence that they are in considerable competition. I also mention that nearly 90% of what is classified as food in the local customs file are free toll. There's quite a lot, and I'm going to be allowed to doubt that many other countries in the world have access to their food markets. But that's different. I take my mind to what goes by. A senator on the carbon track of food production. It is vital that we make it clear for the simple reason that we know very much between individual articles in food production and that we are working on it. We are, for example. in cooperation with sheep farmers and the Environment Ministry about these factors. We also have the climate program for which the secretary of the environment is in charge, and we have financed it so that we are in many areas in which we are reinvented. What a joy it is to hear the powerful support available at the council at that time!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u113	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer to these questions is well - founded and joyful. I think this is just an enormously important factor when it comes to climate. We may talk a little skiing at times. We're talking about our biggest opportunity in climate matters, for example. a change in land use and recovery of wetlands, but at the same time we're talking about domestic food production as if it were without carbon footprints, so I think we need to know better what of it lies in a ruined land, which we can easily recover, and each real carbon track, such as. domestic meat production is. It is a joy to know that this is being considered. I think this is very important to our long - term climate goals. With regard to my mutual interest and my highest interest. A minister of competition is absolutely right to point out that a considerable amount of food is brought here, not being made here, but here. We have far fewer food production than many other countries without toll but, in terms of domestic consumption, it is quite clear that when it comes to dairy products and meats, it is quite an important problem in the total food prices of the households. There we see the great difference between countries in this regard. Of course, my meditation is that we may have opportunities in the climate and our goals until we can change the agricultural support systems to some extent, not to reduce support, but just to work together our goals in climate matters, thus increasing even outright support to the article but to reduce toll protection at the same time without compromising the competitiveness of agriculture with exported products, which are certainly subsidated, like the highest level. A minister's gonna point it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u114	Thanks for that. I mention in that relationship because I didn't answer it before. One senator asked if the goals in climate and agriculture could be mixed up, that I believe that this is possible. True, both farmers and governments are bound by a contract framed into 2026. A subsequent review of it takes place soon, I say, because the remainder of it is a relatively brief step in eternity in view of the subjects we are dealing with in the climate. I think we need to move slowly onto that path as quickly as possible. A senator is talking about. We need more knowledge, but we have, in my mind, two policies now, on the one hand, the policy of public shopping that requires the emphasis of the world's institutions on climate, that is to say, is to be taken up by the carbon level of food. We need better measurements, but I do know that even people in town are designing instruments to measure, of course, what we should look for. There we are taking certain steps. Also in the movies and will be presented, hopefully on either side of the bank. A year's tournament, food policy for Iceland, which also takes into account the risk of climate change. In two places it is laying a foundation for changes in that subject, and we need patience to give the industry nothing, as well as the government, to adapt to these changes. I think they're inevitable, they'll come, and I hear that there's a lot of harmony with people in that regard most of the council. It is a unique political party that stands out as different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u115	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his entry, on page 30. 92 on the budget bill says, by permission of the President: Although there is an ongoing risk of uncertainty about the prosperity of the Icelandic economy, there is uncertainty about the next year's hairy fishing particularly important. The export value of fur was about 0.6% of gross domestic product in 2018 and is much less in a year where no hairy fish was caught in the season. The Haguess report suggests that a hairy person will be caught next year, but it could fail. In fact, climate change and global warming cause increasing uncertainty about many crops. It is true that phallic fishing is very important, especially in individual coastal areas, such as the Eastern plain, the Hornfjord, and the Western Islands. It was released last week in the highest report. Marine and agricultural ministers to the General on the use and ecological significance of the hairy population in 2000-◯2019. After that request, most of us stood in a position of government, with the exception of a central class. I'd like to point to page 2. 15 in the hairy report on the prospect of developing the stems of hairy stems, which clearly show that outlooks are not in good quality during winter. In fact, they are none other than miracles and that in the months that have not been seen since then, there is a fur. Has the government thought about any action or action that would result in the absence of hairy hunting in the winter, the second winter in a row? This could have serious consequences both financially and ecologically, which could be seen in contractions, e.g. on cod and other crops.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're right, there's a lot of uncertainty about hairyness. This is a major report compiled at the request of the council members of the government. I'd like to mention, because of what. In the morning newspaper article, a senator who spoke there shamed me with bloody shame because she had long been to the council. That is how we often find ourselves with unreachable prolongation on the side of the government when she does not do her work well enough and does not notice that the evidence she herself has requested has come to the house. It is true, however, that a hairy person does not take good care of his hair. [[Up front.]] Like what? A senator said that it would take a miracle to make it grow at the pace we all wish. But as she mentioned the word a miracle, she asked what measures the government was going to take. It is a pleasure to know how much trollisticism rages. A senator has in the government that we can produce miracles in the environment of the ocean. It's more complicated than that. We will not be in the position to develop some action to support other strains. Lodin transports energy into our life system and is an extremely important source of food for other species that live there. Likewise, this is an enormous foundation in many communities. We haven't talked about it in particular. I'll just mention that there was a footing and difficulty in the fact that one airline went bankrupt for nothing very long ago, and there were ideas of providing them with communities and businesses that were badly out of the interest or assistance of prisoners, but we didn't do that about the shock of having a hard time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u117	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. I would hardly have thought that he was going to rush into the field of reporting and timing, since it is entirely wrong that the woman currently said has not tried to follow the world's hairy report. [[Up front.]] I had done so many times in the U.S. Department, but this shows the interaction between the executives and those who work here. This report was electronic and refused to be received because of the highest level. Minister refused to follow protocols that are exactly in this form, printed out a great report, thank you, but that I implied that here was a miracle government is the biggest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u118	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u119	On the other hand, I said it would take a miracle to get here all of a sudden. [[You called...]] Again, I would like to refer to what is on page 5. 92, that marine climate change and warming cause increasing uncertainty about many crops. That's when I want to go to the highest. A minister of the question of what was done at his Ministry in an effort to make this better. How does he picture uncertainty, as in Canada, in which the cod disappeared after the phonies disappeared? In fact, the sea had cooling down, not so much warming as we did. I ask what was done, and what uncertainties are we most discussing in this report? What crops count as the highest. Ministers in particular that we need protection, and how will he react?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's prize for a job well done. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u121	I was just kidding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u122	No, no, it was a very serious statement, and I thank her from the bottom of my heart. Thanks, too. A senator is not worried about money, neither agrienvironment nor a seabed, because we're here, not about it, but about the situation on the hairy stem, which is extremely important. [[Up front.]] We've been working at my Ministry on the vital question. A senator mentioned, the interaction of climate change, the warming of the sea and the status of our crops, and has had discussions with the Marine Research Institute on this. That's where we have our expertise. Me and the politicians and the officials of my department are just ballplayers of it. I'm on a project and I'm not gonna be able to inform you here and now how I'm going to treat their establishment, but we're gonna have to deal with this question, and I hope I'm going to find out what I'm going to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u123	A respectable president. We will discuss a budget bill for 2020 and particularly the focus on health matters. The Treaty states that, regardless of the economy or the habitat, the Icelandic health system should meet with what is going to be the best part of the world and that all the people of the land should enjoy good service. The General also agreed with health policy at the beginning of the summer to the year 2030, which aims to create a whole - scale system for service to the national community, which covers every field and all branches, so that we have two very clear guides in the way we build up and what priorities we put to work. We have long stood ahead in comparison with other countries, and the results have been in many areas with what happens best in the world. I think we all agree on what is here that system itself, i.e. Our health services, is one of the cornerstones of our community, and we want to create a global system and continuous service to patients in the right stage of each service. The financial bill reflects these emphasis and financial plans, and on budgets there are large amounts of contributions to services to the elderly, to health care professionals, to reduce patient payment, to promote mental health care, and to finance new drugs. Of course, the construction of the Land Hospital will remain in priority, but if we discuss only the much - laid health care facilities, especially in health policy, that is the first stop at health care, we focus on strengthening it as our first stop. 200 million are marked, especially in excess of what already lies at the core. We continue to emphasize the structure of mental health throughout the country. This year, 650 million went to the business of these tanks, and it will now be improved by 100 million. K. supplementation in 2020. In particular, health care for the elderly will be supported by 200 million to provide health - care visits. Adding health care to prisoners, including mental - health care, will increase by 90 million over the next year, which is partly in agreement with health care for the ministry. It is also true that the regular vaccination of VZV children will begin next year and cover a project of about 40 million. K. We work to reduce patient payment, and we have 300 million earmarks for the next year's project, followed by an additional 800 million a year, followed by the next four years under budget. The structure of nurses is a big priority, and we have about 3.7 billion dollars. in construction and management, but emphasis will be given to increasing the number of specialized day-care reports for people with congestive heart failure. At the same time, a more flexible day is planned. In accordance with the nurse structure plan, budgets are expected to increase the amount of donations to build up at 1.8 billion next year and additional contributions to the business resulting from this increase of less than 1.9 billion dollars. The construction of a land hospital will remain first of all, and under the financial bill, contributions are raised to this project by 3.8 billion. from year to year to the next year at 8.5 billion, starting with the inflation of the treatment core and also working to complete the laboratory design. The construction projects of this magnitude take on a tremendous amount of money, but these projects are about people, they are about patient equipment, improved staff facilities, improved quality, and more efficient health care. A respectable president. Health costs in the United States are over the average of Europe, however, they are lower than average in terms of a percentage of GDP. It is a pre-sponsored standard. However, we are increasing this ratio from year to year in line with the goal of weighting and increasing the share of health care services in public projects. In 2018, health expenditures were 25.3% of total financial expenses, but it is estimated to be 25.7% next year and from 2018 to 2020, cost to health has increased from 229 billion dollars. of 260 billion, i.e. About 30 billion dollars. I'm on a solid price. A respectable president. I've finished this short story, and I'm looking forward to talking with what I'm talking about. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u124	V.E.G. President. Today, awareness of the spiritual health of people. It has to do with the rest of it. in the struggle that we only have one life. This leads me to a question about mental health, where we hear that people are dismissed from the mental field of Lands Hospital, where the threshold seems to be higher today than it once was because of poorness and lack of capital support. In fact, some have said in full force that mental - health services in this country are bankrupt, that people are now with more complex diseases, and even are being thrown between systems, even at the Ministry of Health, are not the means to care for the important things. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the way he intends to use himself in his seminary, in which the rendering of the budget is not clear regarding that aspect. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to how she intends to use the funds placed under the anti-corruption hat. I'm sure I'll have more questions, and I expect to get good answers when I'm at the top. As expected, a minister represents a health committee for a mental - health professional. I'm worried, and I'm worried about them because most of the money for health care goes to new buildings and is a mental hospital not underneath.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u125	A respectable president. As noted in my introduction, the budget bill has a significant focus on mental health, but I understand that reading through teams hidden in the chapters is not a coward. I'd like to say what. A senator says that what I think is the most important thing in this series of issues, i.e. As with other categories of mental health, we have clear goals at the first, second, and third stages of our ministry. We are now putting on a mental - health program to work on human health care systems throughout the country with psychologists. This means that at the first stage of our medical care, we can finally apply in part or in some way to our spiritual health, even as we do physically. We need to weigh whether this design is sufficient or not, as well as whether we might need even more and combined healthcare professionals. There have been reports of e.g. The importance of social workers in this regard, but we are following our first steps in this regard. Second, there is the second phase service, which is part of a service rendered on the basis of contracts. By setting up a mental - health team all over the country, we are providing services near home when health care fails when the next level is needed. When we have first made sure of a proper first and second - degree mental - health service, it will bring relief to the third - degree service, and then we will be talking about what is presented in our health - care program, giving the right service in the right place. I hope this part explains why. A senator, but in the second answer, I will talk about counteractive prophylaxis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u126	Madam President. It has been observed that Iceland's Medical Insurance has been prepared for the services of physical therapists. I have made it a matter of conversation with a physical therapist that they are concerned about these concerns because of their clients. Let us remember, Madam President, that physical therapists have an important preemptive position. They enable people to attend jobs that would otherwise not allow older citizens to live longer in their homes. Here is an important social aspect of an active community, as well as a health factor. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is the objective of the decree? Is there a way to cut the service of a physical therapist? Sees this place on the budget bill? Isn't a minister concerned that because of this, fewer people are able to work at a job market, and the elderly make it harder to live in their homes? Can a minister confirm that the invitation does not reach a physical therapist who does his work in the homes of his clients, but will be negotiated with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up issues related to the important work that physical therapists perform and to the vital link in the local Icelandic health care department. We have a number of problems in supporting Icelandic health care when talking about providing the best possible service, and on the other hand, we are under financial obligation. It is the work of Iceland's Medical Insurance Associations at any given time to put them together, and now the speculative financial team that is being developed there has been a significant exceedance of the results of budgets. Then Iceland's Medical Insurance project is to establish acceptable contracts with physical therapists and hosts in accordance with current legislation. It's not just financial laws that are natural laws, we must not forget that budget is law, but we're talking about Iceland's health insurance having its task of getting the best and safest service in the most practical way. That's what public shopping law has to do with setting up Iceland's health insurance, getting the best service for the funds decided by the General. That's what's going on now, and I assure you. As with other health care, a senator's goal is to ensure both the quality and the safety of the ministry as far as possible. This medical service should be done in no other way than other aspects of the ministry. Iceland's health insurance will provide medical care and this is part of the Agency's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u128	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for her review of her part of the budget. I have to say, the highest. A health minister is not in an envious position to fight primarily within the government with members of other administrations who do not interfere with beating their own health minister who is trying to clean up the matter of freedom. We in the United States have had much to agree with the emphasis. A minister is still working, not in all, but in many ways. Now I'm just gonna wind up asking how the power is. Ministers imagine standing by the Treaty on building a public system that compares with the best in the world. Given the budget bill, and especially the state of a land hospital and the sliding we now see became last year, I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister of how she envisions to fog our public health systems toward the best. Or should we say that without worrying about subjugation, the common people can walk to a superior health care provider in times of trial, without worrying about the retirement of departments, without worrying about being on the subject, without worrying about the long list of back - costing clients, the sick who have to seek medical help, fortunes, and last but not least without having to worry about not having to have enough money to look for the cures of cancer now, with students, with unemployed, and with low-payers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator may want to answer the questions asked primarily on the basis of medical policy. Hv. One senator noted that there is no excessive waiting for services, no concern over the lack of design, that there is a need to increase the State's contribution due to the patient's payment, i.e. Cutting down the payment session. All of this is scheduled according to medical practice. I'd like to say that to what. A candidate for the health - care program such as this does not decide whether it is public service or services rendered by other sources. However, my position, and it's actually written in the health insurance law that it's important that we have strong public health services as a focus for our whole service. It is the carrier of health care, and it has the best health - care system in the world, the most equal. They're in the North, and they're the strongest, and we want to protect that service. I especially want to stay with what the senator asked about people who need to be deprived of health care. We can see in the solid evidence that people, including the elderly, infirm, and also students, need to be deprived of medical or medical treatment and even for economic reasons. It is unacceptable for a state of state to have to be in that position, so we set the goal of a financial agenda that we are down to what happens and are walking in the North countries, i.e. 15% from your own pocket. My personal opinion is that this should be much lower than the World Health Organization says that 15% is the reference line, that if we have more payback of patients, we're looking at discrimination on the basis of economics. In Iceland, it's now about 17%.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u130	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer, and they will give her our support in the United States when it comes to all this struggle, especially the battle for the lower payment of patients, and perhaps especially the groups that do not enjoy discounts in the system today, as mentioned earlier. Unemployable or senior citizens, I'm reading students who are not poor or older citizens. There are groups of low-payers in this position who don't have a discount. The question is, Can we meet this group? I'd like to say, "The carrier river, is our Landspit." Of course, he's the big machine we're dealing with. I see in the budget that we have a retreat at a Land Hospital of about six hundred million. The increase in budget is not intended for the operation, and the budget will therefore take the focus of the hospital business, the daily operation. High-class guard load, including Nurses, are canceled, it's just been declared out. It is early to realize that this will take a severe blow to all operations, leading to a failure to open the proposed sectors, e.g. on aging and mental health, or that other sectors will be closed. For many, things are pretty bad, waiting a long time. This is the situation that we face after the bullshitting of the free-minded parties, as they speak of. This is, in effect, an unacceptable situation. The man in this large hospital today has been very difficult, and I do not fully understand how the government sees how adequate health care can be maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u131	A respectable president. Since it is natural to have nearly all international standards, there is more to it than health care. However, it could be better, and that's why we need to sharpen both our policy and our priorities. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator, especially about how the Land Hospital has been under way for many years. I would especially like to mention the fact that in the leading tide of the crash, before we were actually in the United States during the long term of Icelandic politics because of the economic breakdown, we watched cuts for Land Hospital and, in fact, all the public health services. As fine people have said to me in a hospital: cutting down is quick, but building up is very slow. It can be a task that takes a long time and is shifting and demanding. But we are. Hv. A senator also asks about some of the factors in the payment process. I agree with the senator that what is supposed to be in the foreground is people who are in a weak position. When we are detracting, we should rather than simply cross the entire program, look especially to the most sensitive groups. Then we're talking about groups like the rest of them. A senator mentioned and received indications dealing with different diseases that come in different ways from the cost of medicine, etc. and that's unacceptable. We are now taking a look at the decision where we put the money to reduce the patient's payment. Hv. A senator also asks about land hospital situation and now is that the Ministry cooperates with the National Hospital to better analyze the situation and identify the measures that can be taken. I hope that we can have a clearer answer in this regard, and we may also be able to discuss it better and more clearly in the field. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u132	A respectable president. Here we discuss health issues, and that's why I want to think about it at the highest level. Health Minister: How do we pay attention and recommend how we use the wealth of health - care providers? Health matters are important, and one of the biggest taxpayers in the state's budget. Over the past few years, large numbers of money have been added, so there is a considerable greater amount of money in the medical system. At the same time, of course, we see the need to increase considerably, just by changing national age patterns and changes in disease and so forth. How do we watch that we make the most of our money, how do we recommend it, and what do we do about it? Is there anything in these budgets that makes us get more out of the money tomorrow than we get out of it today? I think we have to be very alert to the point where so much money goes there. How important it is that we be able to provide better service and have more intensive health care that money is making the most of its means! That's what I want to hear from the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is a natural fundamental question. It may be the simplest approach to all systems and services to simply add capital support. But we know that it is vital to stop regularly and think: Are we making the best use of the funds? In Icelandic society, we both have a very large country and a relatively small number of people. We have many challenging circumstances, but we are rich in land, and we have a solid foundation in a government fund to be on top of our health care. But to make sure that we get the most of the money, there are two main points that I would like to mention to give a reply. A senator: On the one hand, we do so by establishing and clarifying the local service. It is a very expensive system that first directs people to the emergency department of a university hospital at all costs. By bringing people more into the first phase of the service, by providing health care for their names, we save in the long run because of the use of land hospitals, university hospital, and research institutions, where they are to be used. Another factor that I would like to mention, which also leads to making a wise arrangement for money, is the financial resources that deal with parties who provide contracts. As we become more specific in what service we would like to receive and that it is defined on the basis of those who need the ministry rather than those who give it, we are more likely to make more use of the money. There's tracts in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u134	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and agree with her that it is very important to have the contract clear and specific service we want and at any level. And I would like to wonder exactly what the first phase of service is and how far it goes. Do all the services we are giving at the first stage need to be health - care services that are under strict agreement? Maybe there's a little reverse in this. Need a first-stage resort by e.g. Should health be bound to strict agreements, such as many other health - care providers? Or is it important to have some means of living in a community, living at social and health care facilities, if it is strong? It may be powerful for the health system to arrange for such a service to reduce the pressure. It is very likely that if there is an alternative option for a person in need of physical help but may not be very seriously ill and may not necessarily need to meet a mental - health professional, the pressures of mental - health professionals and psychiatrists can be relieved. And it's a lot of these things that I just take the mental - health system as an example, but it's certainly in many other places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u135	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator again. I think it's a very important matter that he brings up, and in fact, he is involved not only in mental health but also in a broad sense in human health and health society. I've found it at my meetings and at the Ministry with local authorities and health - care professionals and personnel in the institutions that there is a great increase in international interest in integrating the services of neighboring society with health care. Then, in effect, we are talking about things from family projects to the activities of the local community, social services, activities of children, school care, etc. and then into medical care. Of course, this is especially true when we speak about psychosocial health because these levels of service are met in a most dramatic way. I'm gonna let myself take just one more step away from it. A senator may be asking: If we handle the matter one step earlier, are we helping our health care providers to adjust? If I understand why. A senator is correct. Then I think we're supposed to watch this, so we're supposed to deal with it a lot earlier, where money is put on prevention and the goal of building a strong and good society. With what we are in the order above, the funds will be more useful. It is most expensive to give up in doing something until we have a serious health problem. It's always better, for both the money, for the public, and, of course, just for life, and I'll let myself tell you my happiness, that there's more money to support and support society's infrastructure, but it may not be at my table as health minister. But it is indeed on the table of the welfare committee as well as on the government of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u136	President. I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister will see if she has made sure that in these funds there is enough money to provide needed service. This is something I have done repeatedly, probably since 2014 for budget 2015. While working on change proposals, members of the Parliament and I can send comments to a person involved in a request for a review. I have done so, and then I have sent it to all the medical institutions of the country, the Hospital in Akureyri, the university hospital in Reykjavík, the health care unit in Reykjavík, and then to the six health - care centers around the country. I assume that a minister has spoken to all these institutions and has made sure that they are given enough money to meet the necessary business. That's a question I've always asked, and I always got the answers that most people missed. It is occasionally that it has not been. I think the last of the highest. In the southwest corner, a minister spoke specifically to health institutions, adding some financial support. I'm asking if a minister can review the need and then possibly mention where it is being contributed to building up after the tremendous amount of money that has been for so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We have often discussed the issues involved in financing health care, both in the past and in the present, and I agree with the circumstances at hand. A senator is included in his question, in effect, that these systems need to be strengthened, that they need to be donated, and that they do better. This is what we have done in the history of this government, where there has been a significant increase between years. But I'd like to say what. When a senator asks if there is enough money for the necessary ministry, he is there with an ecstatic scale, the necessary service, and the financial resources. Therefore, we need to have standards when dealing with these institutions and other people in the ministry about what we have. What are we talking about when we are talking about the necessary ministry? Who's she supposed to be? We are implementing a quality plan of a land surgeon's office that is about to weigh and assess specific standards in the way the service is performed. Then we're talking about a financing model, both now in force with the health care of the capital, and then we're moving out to a country where we're calling on the criteria so that there's something in the context, not that there's just one number that has for some magic to satisfy this needed funding. I'd also like to say that with health care, it should be more clear to the institutions to know what is expected of them. What is a phase one service? What does that service involve? What does it mean to have a health care that remains in the name and emergency service that is needed locally? What service should this institution render, and even what service does it not have? It also counts that people do not perform services that others can render or should render. A necessary service for enough funding, yes, that is the goal, but we need to clean up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u138	President. The question is, How does health policy play into this? It's the natural DRG system where they pay for the services that are actually given and then I assume, by course, the frame of which service to be served and where, like the highest. A minister noted that it is actually given in which the quality of the service and the safety of patients meets. This should be what the health policy aims to do. How was the conversation with these health centers? I'm going to send them a message and ask them what they think. At least I'll get at least Their information about how they feel. It would be good to know from the minister how the conversation has been done in the processing of the budget for health institutions, how the conversation has been with the nine medical facilities in Iceland, how far it's been, whether it's become a good partnership in many places or what, some minor thing that stands out, or whether it's fundamental analysis of any factors and who and how it works to fix it. V.E.G. According to a minister, the necessary services and financial resources should actually fit together so that those who are careful to provide health care for the people and those who give the financial support must be consistent and consistent, agreeing that this is the way it should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u139	A respectable president. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the communication between the Ministry and the institutions. As regards the preparation of budget and financial programmes, they are standardised, i.e. The institutions are in regular consultation with the Ministry on Projects ahead. What may have been added in my time to cooperation with the institutions is first what I mentioned only earlier, to leave the country, and to be with the institutions in talking to the health professionals. In health policy, we assume that the director of the National Institute of Health is actually the district manager, more responsible than just his organisation, is also responsible for integrating the service in his district. We have established a meeting that is a meeting of all the directors of all the medical institutions, who will then be able to discuss common challenges. Sometimes they are common, and even people can help, they can get good ideas to resolve issues, etc. and can communicate. It matters, as well as when we are talking about a project in which the Landspians perform something but then in a local medical facility. Then it is important to have an open, common field. We also assume, in line with health policy, that the head of the health - care institution regularly attends the Ministry's meeting and reviews the official social and professional identification statistics so that we will be aware of certain factors that we agree on as much as possible. Because of what? A senator specifically asked about the ministry, so I have to mention here that we now have a new 200 billion foundation. K. to improve the use of long - term land opportunities and in the current year as well as 200 billion. K. to meet specific needs for imaging equipment. [[The president calls.]] We've been divulging since it was a regular 20 million. K. each year to these numbers, and that's really important. You can feel it when you talk to these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u140	A respectable president. We're discussing the budget for 2020, and I'd like to catch it at the highest level. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir let him go and only visit health institutions in the country. In the spring of spring, a health policy was adopted until the year 2030, which the Ministry of Health proposed by the Parliamentary Reconsistencies of the Agency from 2017 on the need to submit such policies. It is therefore a pleasure to see its mark in these words. Healthcare policies plan to promote health care professionals as their first visit to the health system, but patients can be directed on a suitable procedure for each patient. This project estimates an estimated 200 million. K. and another 200 million. K. should be protected within the health - care unit in order to serve the elderly and to promote health - care visits, which are of utmost importance. I know an example that leads to this, and this is crucial. Elderly people can stay at home and later enter institutions. These are needs and fine assignments. The health-care programme is planned for health centres on the country to implement their own annual work programme, which will take into account health policy and related procedures. The directors of the health institutions of the country are the district directors of health care within their districts and regularly include medical services under the direction of the Ministry. This calls for a powerful leader in each area to map the needs of services and organize the activities of the Agency accordingly. In this regard, I would like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister if any mapping has been required on the basis of national organisations for different circumstances and needs, or if any work is started on these products.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request may be first to catch the ball, letting it go on health calls and services to the elderly. One of my priorities and priorities is that we need to reevaluate and reevaluate the approach to doing the service of the elderly primarily by nurses. We need to have more variety and, what should I say, flexible options, and even more so that we can adjust our options as we can reach the first phase of our ministry. This is what we are doing to create by means of health - care visits, but also by increasing our household care, by offering a flexible and varied day's activities, etc. You can sense that there is a huge lump running all over the country and a great interest in thinking outside the box and leaving the standard negotiation environment that has been the traditional approach and into more creative and varied solutions. But because of him. A member of the council asks specifically about the status of these health institutions across the country and whether the Ministry is aware of their different nature, of course, of course, of course, that the Ministry is in close and frequent contact with health institutions. But in my opinion, it has to be an assessment to remain. We can't at any time put a dot behind the conclusion of this assessment because one of the things we need to do is consider this also from the population development and social and economic development of each area. For example, after traveling through the country during the summer as a health - care organization, I may be occupied with the uniqueness of the Western Institutes and the Eastern countries because of the long hauling of the back into either the Land Hospital or the Hospital in Akureyri. I think we need to look even more at the fact in the way we provide a satisfactory basis for the operation of these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u142	A respectable president. I look forward to seeing this mapping process and view because I think it will be even more clearly possible to apply the funds in the right places and in the right places. However, while we live in a small country, health care needs vary in length and distance. Then I'll get to the next thing. The Government Treaty states that the government is going to reduce the payment of patients in the health system and make them more beneficial and efficient. It is therefore a pleasure to note that in these funds there are indications that patients should be saved and that they should be replaced with additional contributions to that of 300 billion. K. next year. The reduction in payment is an important factor in ensuring the bioavailability of health care professionals, says the health minister. One of the major costs of participation in patients living away from special services and a high-tech hospital is travel costs and support, not to mention the loss of jobs that people experience on such trips. The 2004 travel cost of health care and their members within the country is under way and has not been updated. Since then, significant changes have been made in the availability of people from the country into health care. With a new health policy, there is a clear basis for equality and access in providing the government's services and aim to reduce the patient's payment. Then I ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is it not time for patients' travel expenses to be reimbursed? Are New Regulations now under way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u143	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for the question. I say that what should be our primary objective in ensuring the availability of citizens of the country, regardless of their habitat, to separate doctors or secondary services, and then the third degree of individual service, is to try to approach it as closely as possible in moving the ministry to people. That is really the way we want to approach it. It is closer to export one healthcare professional to the country than to 50 people in Reykjavík. It's an exit point and I think it's very important to approach it that way. That's why we're thinking about various factors. One of them is the one who hadn't. A senator mentions, the travel costs of the regulations, while others are working with the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital for responsibility and support for the service of specialists abroad, that this is a part of our agreement with Iceland's Medical Insurance, and to improve the use of medical transportation. Of course, with a new hospital hotel, we are improving the situation. On the other hand, I agree with it as a dog. A senator says, I am absolutely aware that this travel spending policy is 15 years old. It has not been updated since 2004. It's one of the things I've got on my level when I'm looking at how we're going to figure out how to cut the patient's payment. However, it should be stated in this discussion that travel costs do not fit into the definition of the patient's health care costs. When we're talking about comparing from country to country, it's not usually part of the calculation how much patients pay to get in place to enjoy the ministry, just to be perfectly clear, that the funds that go there don't change the proportion of the movie.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u144	Mr. President. The objective of the adjusted pay factor system of 2018 was to reduce expenses to those who need a lot of health care and to cover expenses. One of the changes that were made to pay for medical services and training, these were no longer the separations, so to speak. This change is one reason why the cost of government training exceeded the budget, and it can be asked: Why and what was replaced? The fact is, according to the best knowledge, that on the other hand, there was a client who had to work on people who were reluctant to attend this service for high costs and, more importantly, the fact that physical therapy is a little further back in the food chain, the doctors first and that it is the other, so people have often paid their part to 100% of the government's pay program at the time of physical training. Then there's what got in return. In any case, the incidence of disability, or the reduction in the number of disability-induced disability and rehabilitation evaluations of musculoskeletal diseases, as it is called, is undisputed over the years. These must be things that are interesting to have inside the film as we consider the future process of government payment for physical therapy. Now the budget bill refers to the shape of a rehabilitation policy that should be ready at the start of the next year. Then they must look at what I've mentioned here because if there's any key guys in our rehabilitation, it's physical therapists. Yet, there is now an invitation about this service, and this is one of the first offers in accordance with official service laws. Minister came in earlier and is important. In earnest, I ask why these chronological times? It's a problem with physical therapists who wanted more time. They pray for more careful inspection. They're asking for this policy to exist. Why is this work being done in this order of time, and, if I may say so, call for a conflict when I would have thought that it would be possible to work in harmony with common goals? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Most of all, I make the importance of this being worked that way because this is, if I understand the case correctly, the first offer of many people in accordance with the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. First, it is a classic debate in what order we do things. We're starting with health policy, then we have a rehabilitation policy, and we do this and the rest, and the season is usually over when the sleeves are up. Fortunately, our system is alive, stable, so we are always in some policies, and we are always in some opinion of the situation so that a rehabilitation policy will not be the basis of the agreements presented here, whereas the policy element is part of the vision ahead. I agree with it. A senator says that access to the services of a physical therapist is a major concern in the way it has affected other aspects of the ministry. One is if we had a certain cow. What is it that has affected musculoskeletal disorders? What has been the effect on pain killers? What has affected the incidence of disability, etc.? All of this is something that is totally normal to consider in this relationship. I'd like to say that basically, I think it's really important, because we were already talking about mental health and mental health matters at first, that physical therapy is available in the clinic, that part of the broad range of health care services that you can enjoy right away in your clinic is the vital knowledge that physical therapists have. This is not often so that physical therapists have much clearer and better insight into exactly what needs to be done in the case of musculoskeletal problems or that the patient is recovering from an operation or something like that than the usual interviews with a health care professional, even if he or she is a good payable price. I'd like to mention it as an introduction too, but I'll deepen my answer in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u146	President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to give the answer, and I actually agree completely with everything that was presented there. But there does not seem to be words and actions, since at the same time as this invitation is being prepared, physical therapists have called for meetings, called after their arrival. It has not been addressed, so there are truly silos still in place, there have not been broken down walls. I've studied this information, and it seems to me that the main focus there is the exact price of units, the number, and that. For a player at least, if this is read fast, the goal is to cover costs. An increasing pay factor and a new payment system are to be reached by a physical therapist's salary without taking into account the importance and saving of the system. That's why I have to ask, and I don't care if they can get through something called the health - care policy, which comes in February, or health policy, or are pulled out of the department's hat, just that they watch that it's an important first step in this. Actually, in the latter half, I was going to take the details of the Landspit. This is not particularly simple, neither foreman nor for student, but we are going to talk a lot about these matters here on the council's sales, on the welfare committee, and, of course, on the financial committee. What I wanted to ask the highest. A minister for now is that there has been an increase in funding for the operation, a minister has worked closely with the heads of the Land Hospital recently, and yet there is this situation that must be the minister of concern as well as all of us. The question, when discussing the budget, is, What conviction is the highest? Minister for solving this problem of the Land Hospital now? Are we continuing on this journey? How does a minister feel about this? I know a big question is asked, and the answer is not available at the highest level. Ministers rather than others, but still feelings. In addition, I would like to ask you a question that points to the highest view. The minister thinks it's an idea to put an independent management board over the hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a political government. There are professionals in place. It's a huge piece of money. These are all our interests. [[The president calls.]] Is this something that a minister might consider supporting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u147	A respectable president. First, just a little bit back on the physical therapists because it only hung out of my previous answer. Hv. One senator noted that the export data is just a matter of almost total unity. That's not true. Of course, there we are talking about the quality and safety of the ministry and the availability of the ministry, which is always no. One. I would also like to add to my earlier answer that when we talk about adding to the greater knowledge of health - care professionals, we are not only talking about the knowledge of the physical therapist but also about approaching patients at the first stage of the ministry more closely from the point of thought. That's where I mentioned before, in answer to what. paritaprevir Kolbrún Árnadóttir, social adviser's arrival, and I'd like to also mention occupational therapists who could certainly come to the scene there. Hv. A senator did not attack the park, since it is the lowest of its questions about my feelings for the Land Hospital, although it was a natural question of whether there was enough to be done on the budget as it is presented today. I must say that I wouldn't bring up the bill or my chapter in the bill any different than that I thought it was so that it would do. But I'm worried about the situation, and I've been saying it in the media, and I believe that these communications now running between the Ministry and the hospital director have failed to find a way to reach this angle. It may take more time than just the time it is living up to the age of the year. But I expect the explanations and solutions given to the director of the hospital to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u148	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for her history. She certainly has this class of subjects that are not least challenging, the case group on health matters that limits what is best when people are asked what they put first at all; it is health matters. I'm not going to talk about a growing waiting list or 175 older citizens waiting for nurses. I'm not gonna talk about how it's going with one thing or another. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister for, however. I'm going to talk about what we've had about almost since I came into the council and I've certainly not given up on it. Iceland's Medical Insurance has been signed by the U.S.A., but the fact is that just before the month's conventions, they had already received 35.5 million. K. of the 150 million as legislators, the sheep market, authorized payment in December. To think that by August 35,5 million were paid, and they are now in September 50. The third has paid off. As I understand it, it's the highest. A health minister announced that she would now give 50 million special to meet the young addicts she had previously planned to go into a Lands Hospital ◯ University hospital, but it is not ready for her current situation. The first question is, Who are these 50 million, the highest? A health minister? Is this part of the $150 million that the fund was putting into the drug habit and OSU in December??
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In terms of payment in accordance with a contract, Vogga, the amount of money that is in accordance with the contract that the partners signed to Iceland's Medical Insurance has received. The contract that both parties were not expected to sign with open eyes would make the entire amount due to the signing of the contract. Hv. A senator should realize that the arrangements for this money are in harmony with the agreement, of course, and cannot be different. Hv. A senator specifically asks about these 50 million, so 100 million are in accordance with a contract. Walking divisions were particularly considered, and that was so. The legislature and the General agreed. Actually, it was slow. A senator with that extra deposit to the U.S.A. has puzzled me, how it works. But with regard to the 50 million as a dog. A senator asks about them was made up of them in the budget or in payment of a budget that would be used to the U.S.A in keeping with the Ministry of Alcohol and Drug Policy. In line with the greatest need, the decision then made was to make special use of funds for young people's basic therapeutics, where certain adjustments had to be made to meet comments and concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u150	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This is my heart thing. It is hardly remembered that last night the UN was talking about the massive explosion of cocaine and powerful drugs in the market. There's a drug problem, really. So I'll go to the top. A minister mentioned, and I particularly thank her for taking it out of doubt, but the fact is, she's decided to take the 50 million and put them into the party she herself was taking out of parentheses and was never intended for us to go to. I'd like to ask the Minister again about that, maybe the Minister understood it by himself, at least On the basis of our understanding of most of the legal committees and others, that we would have been calling for this increased financial authority to try to reduce the waiting list to Gog? He's never been longer, and in August since then, just before shopping, when very sick people had packed their bags, they had to call to say, "Sorry you can't come in tomorrow. We have to postpone it. I'm saying to take the 50 million now, which I might have imagined could at least. has developed into which they could decide for themselves how to meet the waiting list at the Vig and expand their space and space there, but instead the top is going to succeed. A minister in some way again offers us that the 50 million go into what she herself had decided would not be at all. With the increased need for an explosion, is it not true that we simply call for more funding and support on the U.S.A.? In the drug pool, the highest. Minister, we need to strengthen the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u151	A respectable president. I can't help but find out why. A senator would not be in a particularly good position, pretending that she was in some special seat that gives her a position to weigh and evaluate the terms of what money was put to an SAU that she did not even vote for. Well, somehow I've lost my thread. What we're saying is that the budget should have gone to walking departments and in accordance with the Ministry's policy. We've done that, and we're going to go to the Department of Health. Hv. A senator describes his concerns about drugs and addictive drugs, and I worry at times. Senator. What I have tried to do, which is on my level, so to speak, is to put my arms around what is called prescription-related, and that is what is referred to by the doctor and exits the pharmacy through that route. Thus we have been effective between 2017 and 2018, with significant results in reduction of such medicinal products, whether opioids or other medicinal products that may lead to dependence. This does not change the fact that there may still be a lot of drugs on the market, and so it is. We're seeing evidence that we're talking about the possibility of an import and an increase in organized crime, directly linked to such import. But what comes to my table, what I've been able to change the medications, etc. I have changed the Regulation, and doctors have also shown a great responsibility to reduce this and to take this matter to a large extent, showing themselves to be a well - established surgeon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u152	A respectable president. Here I explain the factors under the Ministry of Education and Culture in the bill for funding in 2020. In the bill, continued progress in education, science, culture, art, sports and youth is seen in accordance with the government's treaties. The overall contribution of the topic areas is growing from more than 113 billion to 115. In contrast, the total budget was less than 98 billion dollars. In 2017, it is an increase of 17.5% or 17 billion in three years. In recent years, costs to university and research have been greatly increased and are expected to reach nearly 41 billion next year. This is an increase of 22.3% from 2017 when less than 33.4 billion were reached. On the contrary, Iceland's entire education policy is to be won in the year 2030. In college there is a review of the rules on budgeting them, with the goal of supporting more in university quality. It also aims to develop research, educational and knowledge indicators and plan to publish and begin the implementation of Iceland's policy on open access to laboratory and research data. The next year will continue with full force, which, of course, will be a complete review of Icelandic science and our most important cultural background, the very manuscripts. In the budget bill, we follow up on the emphasis on the new teacher development and have a special 220 million. K. contributes to the project. It is good to say that these measures have been extremely successful, with a 45% increase in applications in elementary school professors in Iceland. It even causes them to suffer. that in 2032, instead of possibly needing a teacher, over 1,600 people, this need has come down to 168. This action has therefore been very effective, but we need to continue it. A review of the Icelandic loan fund is going very well, and the bill will be submitted to the council in the fall. It is a new system of support that includes increased transparency and equality to scholarship to students. The goal is to balance the position of students and the study aid that will be offered in the form of loans in favorable terms and additionally to be made straight for the child's progress and 30% reduction on the loan head. During high school, donations will be less than 36.3 billion. There is a 20% increase in name since 2017, as well as the school itself for music instruction, work ethic, and average school expenses. We want students in all parts of the country to have access to a wide range of occupational and book studies, and one of the main focus on budget 2020 is on the basis of the work programme, and the panel is getting bigger. We are also improving the allocations at the Breiðholti and Cityhols School in the United States, and then we are working to improve the facilities of the University of Education in Reykjavík. A respectable president. We continue to work for the sake of culture, art, sports and youth for all the people of the country. While budgetary contributions to the topic field are a total of 16,1 billion, there were 12.2 billion budgets in 2017. Important tasks include placing Icelandic in accordance with various procedures and a complete approach. As evidence of government emphasis, we constantly focus on improving our reading and strengthening the position of our tongue. We collect contributions from the Library fund about 63% from year to year. We are also going to improve the access and communication of culture and art and are working on a scientific collection for children and young people. There is an earmark in the budget, which supports the media, in accordance with the government Treaty, of some 400 million. K. and I aim to present the bill of material that aims to support, including we editors of the unique media. A respectable president. We've progressed very well on the process of moving ahead in academic and cultural sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u153	V.E.G. President. What's burning on me today, and I want to go to the highest. There's two more things to the Ministers. The first is how money is divided from university to university, on each changing model. Is it by the number of students that reflects the expected activities of the schools? I can see in my mind that one university is the most prominent and asks whether it is supposed to grow even more and then at their expense. I wonder if there's anything more to come to, e.g. Whether university education is not to be funded, they develop a flexible study or to serve as the best of the country. Is it true that one university receives extra money according to the number of students? I could mention some other factors, e.g. Whether it is reasonable to finance from a certain lottery to the whole university system or whether the capital that comes through unregistered religions is not sure to be divided between every student of the university. It may have been a little more out of the way, but it was. The second question I have for the highest. Ministers are turning to the government grants she mentioned earlier, government grants to the press. What is the purpose of making such strength possible? It would be good to be embarrassed by the way the plan of action looks as it has been discussed, as I firmly believe that a targeted plan of action is under way, considering that it should soon be submitted to the bill of the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions she raised to me. With regard to university calculus, we are now working on a green book, where we cover all this funding. One factor that has been leading is that it is the right thing to do. A senator is a student number, and particularly a student's graduation. We're now working on a new algorithm that has more variables where we'll focus on quality further. This is going to be a very exciting job, and we're putting a lid on this green book and we're in great international comparison. In Finland, for example, we often refer to governments with a fixed focus. If a certain labor force is missing into the market, there is money in that direction. That's what the British are doing. One example of this is the actions we are taking regarding the teaching program. There we have special earmarks for the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri. With regard to the media and government grants to the media, I would like to state that we are working to make the media seem like the kind of thing that happens in the North countries. It is supporting the media in exactly the same way that it will be in the bill I am preaching by supporting the editors of the individual media. State radios there are not filming advertising, it is financed differently. Third, there are certain taxes. This is all so that the media are as independent as they possibly can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u155	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for her background here. I want to follow it as a dog. paritaprevir Kolbrún Árnadóttir Aarnadótir came into her second question. The Constitution for the coming council has shown the highest power. A minister plans to present a bill right now in September to change the media law and there says that the bill will include some measures intended to strengthen the operation of the individual media, but the output is no more accurate than this. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Exactly what is the highest plan. Minister? I am adding that the export is bound to be inexorable, since this case is now being taken out of hand in September. What plans does the government have for funding the media, and how do they plan to be implemented? Is it intended to strengthen persons who promote their own opinions, views, and attitudes, or will be required to practice independent reporting on professional and independent editors based on professional newspaper regulations and communications by the established standards of journalists? My second question is about the same thing, but the last few years, like the highest. A minister now knows, has been a persistent discussion and plans to take the Kingdom News out of a commercial market - and she has come to that in her reply earlier. Therefore, I would like to ask, "What is the highest position? " To this end, a minister who would, by no means, only in itself strengthen the position of the extraordinary media? If this were to happen, what plans are there to add new taxes to the loss of income?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u156	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for rather looking at the media and how important it is for his environment to be strong. One thing we have seen in our last years is that we are in a very special time. We are in a so-called information, communication and technology revolution that makes all the media and the way the media earns money very different. A lot of this goes through an international task force. We'll see to it if we compare ourselves with Denmark that almost half of all advertising revenues have left dance jurisdiction, if I can put it that way. The subject is to ensure that the media in Iceland is as independent as possible. My plan for this is, first of all, the bill I've preached that, of course, is based on the granting of strength to editors, professional editors. It's transparent rules, and I want less of that. This bill is to be convened at the last spring Summit, so all plans, all structure and how the bill is thought and why we are starting this tour will be there. I'm informing the senator that the bill may be approached immediately in the consultation process. As for advertising and advertising status, I have declared that I believe it would promote the State Radio if it was completely independent from the advertising market in the exact same way as we can see in other parts of the North countries. I believe we're supposed to go there so that the income supply of private media will be better. Finally, I'd like to mention that we also need to cover international media in international cooperation. These three things need to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u157	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister in his career has done things, and he has set about to set up national agreements. However, I am concerned about the contributions made to the school. On page 18. 276 of the bill says that the total cost of high school falls by 76 million. K. on a steady price of 2019, or equivalent to 0.2%. In this regard, we need to remember that because of the decrease in high school, students were reduced, and again and again they promised that the money saved by the shortening would be used to strengthen this school. And this doesn't rhyme with the overcrowded press, cutting the overall number, as clearly indicated. It breaks both promises. I would also like to use this opportunity to comment on the fact that there is a great need for the government's promise that the funding of the university will reach the standards of OECD and the northern countries. We are nearing a very different time of revolution, where it is obvious that the university needs to play a major role in a person's education - in the fourth industrial revolution. As matters are now, the university has had to give people more attention. I'd like to hear the highest attitude. A minister to see if she believes that the university is equipped to meet the challenges of continuing donations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, his meditation, and his particular interest in education. In regard to high school, let's be absolutely clear that there is no reduction to high school. This is a temporary donation that fell down to the stage as such. However, we continue to talk about increases in each student due to the shortening process and an increase of 5% for all students in the field ministry. We put special emphasis on digital carpenters, and I have to say just as it is at this hall that I am very happy that all the funds that were planned to leave the high school stage for about Three years is still in there. I want to tell you what, too. One of the things I've been doing is that there's quite some leftovers in high school, almost a billion, because we've put more money on high school. We are going to use this money to improve our high school situation. Some may ask, " Why is this rest? ' I believe that we have really been increasing to high school that some schools have not even figured it out and not used the money as such. I'll come back to college later, but I want this to be clear. I am very pleased that we have managed to have a lot of money and have kept them in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u159	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister's response to what I told earlier that students have fallen naturally is not unusual, so there may have been an increase in donations per student. However, I would like to give up my second talk on the list of subjects that have been on the decline from an institution. They were called upon to examine the school's housing needs. This was an immediate diagnosis and an optional analysis. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to its conclusions and to each plan - and then to see if the emergency LHI has been fully solved in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u160	A respectable president. With regard to the Art University and all the great work being done there, it is the right thing to say. A senator said that we have gone to need analysis and option analysis, and the possibility of a future building of the University of Art has been developed for quite some time. To me, it's his turn. The next projects that will be carried out at the university will be related to the Art University. So I'm informing the Senate that we're waiting for the final diagnosis of the situation and I understand that it's probably supposed to run out in the next few weeks, and then we'll see what best is going to happen. I think the future of the Art University is quite good. Everyone has the mind to act on the Art Institute so that I can tell them what to do. A senator says they are on government policy. We're all waiting for the conclusion, how it all comes out. About the emergency problem, yeah, we've got him covered. But I can also inform the Senate that I believe that there must be a better setting for the art university and the present situation needs to be improved, and we need to take good care of it. I can tell you what, too. Senator, we're totally on our toes in this regard. In fact, I've thought it's taken quite some time, I'll say it here, and I'll call it my office and the people who are working on this case very much, and there's a very powerful people working at the Art Institute and the headmaster in particular, so I'm calling it here. Regarding the university and its funding, we are clearly doing what needs to be done, and we are rapidly approaching our goals. After the latest figures I've received from the Economic and Development Agency on the basis of the 2016 situation, I am very hoping that we will reach the average 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u161	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for her input. I'm very pleased with the financial bill on education and culture, and when we're setting priorities, we're doing it under the government contract. So I'm very happy, and the nature of the statement is usually below. On the other hand, I'm going to mention a few smaller things that may still belong to the big lines because a minister spoke of leftovers in high school. I'd like to ask you that, because I hear wailing from the east, e.g. From the East High School of Education, where we have an education and training program, as it were, at the highest level. Minister knows. I would like to be seen because these schools are so important to the areas that are far away from a different choice and that are of enormous importance to society. Then I'd also like to think about things about Hallorm School, which used to be a house management school but now offers a new course in sustainability and creation, and it grieves so well with what we focus on in the Treaty and what a minister has been speaking for. This is one of the things I would like to see. School has been adapting over the years to many things, including the U.S. ............................................................................................................................... I ask the minister if there is anything that can be considered because this school is extremely important to the disputed territory where we really need extra money for education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u162	A respectable president. Hv. A senator turned his eye to an education in the country. I can convince you why. A senator's concern is that there are a wide range of study options in the country. In particular, with regard to the East High Education School, we are determined to put careers first, so to some extent I am surprised to learn that there is a greater need for students to do, but we will take a special look at it. But we have been setting priorities for our training, time and money. And why are we doing so? This is because when we look at other education systems, the proportion of the graduates is much higher from academic studies in Iceland than to create sectoral and industry and we know that there is a great demand for such workforce in the labour market. One of the things I've also been working on is that there's more diversity, to form the League bill. This is because we see that the elimination is higher in Iceland than in the control countries, but in part it is explained because the workforce has been very strong and developed. I'm very aware of Hallorm School, and we know that he's been making some changes, and we have faith in that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u163	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers and am pleased to know that Hallorm University is on the radar, and as can be said of the minister's comments regarding the East School of Education, perhaps following it a little bit. Then I'd like to come to the model of the ever-growing center. I think it's under the East Bridge, which has provided very detailed data on the exchange of funds over the years, but somehow it hasn't returned, as mentioned earlier. With regard to university education and so forth, they have been dependent on money and so on. So I ask it a little bit about how it is and I think we have to do well with this area because it's a very positive model and it's done a lot. Then I'd like to ask for some money to Mak in Akureyri. There's the theater, the Symphony Orchestra and the museums and so forth, but I know there's a letter from the Council of the North-eastern Parliament to the Minister for the Symphonian Orchestra of the Northern Country. Over the years, these members, of the MAk that did just that, have tried to create a complete string of bonds in an effort to make better use of money for the theater and for the Symphonic Orchestra. What's the situation with that? A contract was made in the previous year, or a meeting, reminds me, where, certainly, extra funds were made. But more is needed if the Northern Symphony Orchestra is to be able to live with dignity. That's what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u164	A respectable president. As for ever - increasing education and knowledge center, we are working to update a financing model to make the energy and energy available for ever - increasing education very important to us. There is a review of the Ministry, and I have to say to the United States that I am very aware of all the worthwhile and worthwhile work being done by the eastern bridge. We know, for example. that the proportion of academics in this area is considerably lower, and one of the things the East Bridge has been doing is making new opportunities and taking care of telecommunications and many other things, and there's very strong and good leadership. Since the work of the East Bridge is very successful, they have been very successful there, so there is no doubt in my mind that the eastern bridge is doing this very well. We are studying a new algorithm so that we can better meet the needs of our fields of knowledge. With regard to culture and the northern part of the world, you are absolutely right. A senator to the Northern Symphony Orchestra is doing, in my opinion, something wonderful and a huge resource that lives there. I've already started a job to consider how we can guarantee more money to the Symphony Orchestra. But I'd also like to say that I've directed to the unit level that the exchange within the contract can be considered, whether more to go to the Symphonian band than it already is. But work is already started at the Ministry, so we're answering this pretty handsomely already.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u165	A respectable president. I've always been a little worried about the media, where it's going in the second century of our lives. It's this group here at the General Assembly, like many others, that we react when society is actually having some problem, and when we finally start talking about it, we have new problems. For example, the highest spoke. Minister to provide a bill for support to private media, a subject that I find very important to work on. However, I have a little problem with the form of support that is being developed and more like the amount intended for him because I fear that the way that has gone, the person who has been introduced here, may be somewhat useful to the way the media have worked so far, whether it is Internet media, printing media, or any kind of media. The requirements are such and queer, but they have evidence of thinking on the basis of some preconceived idea of what a polycenter is that has the right to support it. Although the goal is positive and important, I fear that at first the support is not well financed, but I also feel that it is in some way a result of being focused on what already exists. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister of the press, whether or not there is any way he can contribute funds to innovation in the media or to investigate how to support new ideas and new means of communication in order to promote the activities of the individual media. I ask, though there's no time to discuss this, because there is a threat that the standard media, especially from community media, is a bit fed by some computer formula. [[The president calls.]] I don't have time to discuss this any better, Mr. Honorable President, but I'd like a response of the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u166	A respectable president. There's a good reason we're all thinking about media status, just for hours. Like what? A senator knows how the media's landscapes are radically changed by the appearance of international material groups and by how all material is actually presented today. Hv. One senator noted that he was concerned that the bill was slightly tailored to today or even to the past. However, one of the main objectives is to promote the media editors, and I believe that the editors will not stop doing such things. I always need attention to a particular professional, making sure there's a wide range of standards and professional skills, so I think it's very good on the bill. Regarding new avenues and innovation in the media, there is something that might be considered further. But I think that one of the key elements, and it's not just about Iceland, that's about all the countries around us, is that everybody's trying to get over this communication revolution that's taken place and international chemistry because of the impact on income, advertising income. They have not so far slipped from Iceland to these materials, as I mentioned in Denmark to film earlier, Danir is watching that 50% of advertising revenues are already there. Of course, it all turns to the income structure of the media. It has changed completely because of the time we are at. But everyone has to come here a little bit because it's going to happen real fast. But it is important to have powerful and professional editors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u167	A respectable president. I guess the highest. Minister can guess what I'm going to ask you. [[Up front.]] It's digital carpenters. There are other aspects of this series of subjects that I would be happy to ask about too, but there is a short time and the committee's work and plenty of time there. Civilization is the joint project of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Development, and I asked the highest. Work, innovation and travel minister earlier today, and the goals are similar. This is the goal of a proposal for the implementation of a synonym on access to digital carpenters. In the other category, digital carpenters are designed to be developed. Neither structure is digitally built. It's been over a year since the synopsis was accepted, and it's in the right process, it came into a financial program, and it's actually the first law in this new rhythm, so I was hoping that the money would be followed by the Senate resolution proposal. Since each project is not cost-and-improved, I don't see what's behind it. Is this just a writer piece that's going on? How long? The financial program is planned three years ago in various preparations and so on. I don't know how much it costs or anything like that. After all, there is a digital structure framework. It has been built, though, by several digital carpenters, and the cost is known. There's really nothing left so I can't really see except to decide where and make sure that what's been done before will happen again. I simply ask, "When do we start building? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u168	A respectable president. Digital carpenters are doing absolutely great things all over the country, and they are one of the most proud of the schools and headmasters. When I visit high school, I usually start or end up in the digital carpenter. Hv. A senator asked about financing. We are truly putting extra money to high school, and as mentioned earlier, many schools have made significant changes. In many schools, the digital carpenters have arrived. Some have needed money to keep them going. But because of the way we've been putting the training first, I assume that students and others will take this into account, and I'll find it when we get to school that it's very important. I went into the digital factory there, and there's a lot of innovation and a lot of mind about people in this job. I think there's already money to go to the structure. The next step regarding the synonym is to follow it even more closely than the money is in my opinion there, and now we've focused particularly on it, both on the bill and on the plan, so I think we're on the right track. And I'd also like to mention the factory, a cooperation project that we had with the State Radio and Industrial Associations and others, that's exactly where these digital carpenters are, and that's where we're also putting more money. We're doing good things in this regard. But I think it's a whisk. A senator that we can always do better, and we need to pay very close attention to the progress of this matter. I know what to do. A senator is very grateful to mention this because there is a certain policy in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u169	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Education minister for her introduction and participation in her discussions today. I wanted to have an opportunity to ask more questions in one of the highest points. A minister mentioned in his opening speech, as well as a supportive system for students who are being announced to be in charge during the budget year. We have heard a minister say that in its plans the support system is expected to be changed so that a combination of funding and loans will be further discussed and that today's funding may be relatively omnipresent in the student loan system. I would like to ask the minister to go into the matter a little bit more clearly. I'd like to pray to the highest. Ministers to go into more detail about the costs of this event or what changes in the new system will have or may need financial resources in this area. The financial bill points out that it was overrated into the student loan system under the current conditions. I wondered how it plays with the plans for a changed system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for entering this important matter. Now we are working on radical system changes in how we assist students. The question is, how does it come out? This is so that if a student finishes his study at the appointed time, there will be 30% wearoff on the head chair and we will give him strength instead of loans to each child. In this regard, therefore, the support is more extensive. We've calculated countless examples. In some places, especially with children, it appears that the new and old system can be remembered by 40%. Men are better off, and they too are going to finish paying their student loans early, including the one paying off the loans. because of a folding on the head seat. This is a forward bill because one of the things we see is that birth rates are historically low, and people are having children much later in life. We are giving special support to family members who I think are very positive. The cost and how this is going to come out is a question. We assume that the annual cost of Kingdom funds will be around 8 billion, much like it in recent years, so that proportion of individuals who study will have more, including more. because there has been a significant decrease in the number of applications. This decrease is 52% in ten years. However, we assume in the bill that there is an increase, but this is the size and we have had very good cooperation with the lender's staff on these changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u171	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I wondered, " Can a minister get more into what she believes is the reason why the current education loan demand has been reduced, as she explained in her speech? ' I don't know if we should view it as a problem in itself, but we're not sure that we're going to reduce the risk of school loaning. We can say that there are two aspects of that matter, but it would be intriguing to hear a questionful minister on that subject. Then I wondered if the changes in the study support system that a minister works for cannot exactly be that it will lead to more demand, and then the question is, What is the nature to address if there is an increase? We may continue to assume that a large part of each year's education is being pursued. Are the changes to be expected in the current professional bill work, not in order to increase the demand? How does this compare with what we have in order to meet it financially?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u172	A respectable president. In our calculations, we assume that the demand will increase considerably, up to 40%. Hv. One senator asked why the demand had decreased so much as shown. First, the survey we are looking at shows that youths stay in parents'homes. Second, Icelandic students, for example, to make up those in the North and especially in Denmark, prefer to take loans there because they have access to them, as the northerns have access to our loans. They prefer to take a loan, since it can be dangerous in the sense before Iceland that a certain degree of wisdom has to be discussed. We can lose out on people who even have basic education and who are adding to their master's degree and for a long time because they are taking student loans outside Iceland. Third, a certain change of viewpoint is taking place in the community regarding debt. We see in most economics, both in companies and in homes, that their homes have been paying off debts. Marital status is best received, and the same is true of the companies. It may be that in the past ten years, after the financial collapse, the Icelanders'attitude toward debt may have been somewhat altered, and I think it will account for some of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u173	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister's plans for changing the loan fund or the scholarship fund of students, as it is supposed to be. There may be three things I'd like to look at. First, it is that the entire network, and at the same time, is temporarily cut down, and in view of the fact that it is completely unclear how a new system is going to turn out, what the cost of financing is going to be, I feel this irresponsible approach. In fact, a bit of the problem is being dropped at the funding of this system to the next government. But in this context, I wondered, " How wise is it to link a scholarship to a loan? ' It is true that the number of loans or applications has decreased by 50 percent, but I fear there will be a huge increase in interest if a student's scholarship is linked to borrowing, that a student must make a debt in order to obtain a scholarship for study. I wondered, " Have there been any plans for the effect of this? ' This is a major change in young people's decision to take a loan, and I think it is a joy to think that young people have not been borrowing unless there is a great need. I'm afraid there's a little bit of an incentive to increase the debt of young people and whether it would have been a little easier to consider simply a direct supply of strength against a student's career, as were earlier ideas. In the first round, I would like to get a little more out of the minister's mind on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u174	A respectable president. What's one of the main points in this bill is that we want to guarantee equal access to education in Iceland. Some students have the privilege of living in homes, others not. I think we should help those who need help, not necessarily those who don't need it. That's how we put our money in charge of this government, and that's why we're doing it this way. Hv. A senator mentioned whether we should not have the strength and let these loans go or do things differently. As a result, this is totally planned, taking into account the changes that take place in the North countries. The Danish system has been such that they had direct strength, and they're disappearing from there and entering a very similar system that we're installing. Hv. A senator mentioned that he was very worried about the funding, and I understand that when he reads the budget bill, it's like they're taking a lot of money from this system's financial programme. But because the system has been overcrowded in recent years, we're going to use a hand-made budget to finance these changes, and then we're going to also enter our own money. We've made a decision to do this because the loan fund's been collecting a lot of money that we're gonna use. We've already made a financing plan. At first, we'll walk at this fund, and that's perfectly clear. So the government fund will take over and in the end have some 8▪9 billion, so the funding of the loan is not being reduced but, rather, being increased when it comes to the accumulated funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u175	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister's answer, but that doesn't make any difference because I consider this to be a significant way of borrowing, and I'm afraid it will affect the way people repay. I would have considered better to follow comparable guidelines, such as family conditions, residences, child counts, etc., would simply be a direct support system, and it would be easy to replace such systems with need. Of course, much of the thought behind this system is also an advance learning progression, a goal that is good, and to that extent I think more of an ancient being. Minister of office, Illugi Gunnarsson's son, to direct sponsors directly to students, not to insist that students must borrow to gain strength. But we will have time to discuss this further. However, I wondered about the second talk. A minister has been able to speak at the top of high school. When I put together the increase in expenses that has occurred in college and high school since 2017 to count and 2020 compared to this budget bill, it's a total increase of 10.5 billion. Then, when what is behind it is broken down, the pay and prices managers of 8.5 billion, including extra savings due to rising rent fees at the high school, and then about 2 billion enter next year into the building of house Icelandic literature. I wondered: " Is it a big press offense to be on a teacher's dresser contract and to improve the contribution to the school system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u176	A respectable president. There's a big education application when we see that high school applications are increasing by 45%. This is an operation that we're putting 220 million in. I'd say, there's a lot of money being handled. It's possible to trigger this by suggesting five actions, i.e. The training, scholarship, guidance, and all that, and that there are about twice as many men who apply to study the teachers, I call a big offense. In this regard, we are going to make a big change in the setting around the teacher, and it is truly happy to see how successful we have been. We just saw statistics today from the Economics and Development Organization. What does it tell us? She tells us that in 2016 we needed 6% of the fact that we reached the so - called OECD average, but since then we have increased our donations to university to our names by 22.3% from 2017 to the real value of 7.3%. We are all likely to succeed in doing what we said we would do. I'm very pleased with that. Another important factor is being with a sense of awareness about the importance of education. There I think we did very well, and it is also important that we make good use of the funds. We see this at high school, we're setting priorities for training, and there's an increase in Iceland's Technologies School of Technology about 32% during this brief period, so the top steps seem to be doing something.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u177	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Education minister for her education in terms of the budget. I'm glad to hear what I just heard, that there was an increase of 220 million in training and that men increase in that class. What I'm worried about and I haven't seen in this bill with her is an effort to increase the number of nurses and medical staff. There's not 100 million in it. I believe that's one of the biggest problems today. We need to watch this because we're trying to educate nurses, but we don't get them to work as nurses do. There is a big problem that we need to define, and I wonder: How can we increase our interest in nursing and arrange for them to work in the profession? Can an impulse system be made to ensure that they may work for two, three years after the study by ensuring that those who are educated receive a suitable salary? Probably it is also in the form of pay. Somehow we have to deal with this problem because we cannot open up a nursing home without nurses. Not only does this seem to be our problem but it remains in the North countries as well, so if we came up with a good solution to this matter, I think other North countries would even go that way too. What does it have in mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u178	A respectable president. I'll make sure of what. The senator that we are also thinking about the nurse and the study there. We're working on a procedure plan to improve the situation, and the health care secretary will, along with me, appoint several work groups to review the situation and how we can improve it. I want to tell you what, too. A senator said that we have an earmarked amount of special money to make up for the University of Akureyri, but all of them could not be used because they needed clinical space in hospitals to train their nurses. We health ministers have been working on how we can improve the interaction between these two practice methods in order to increase the number of nurses and that nurses return to themselves and want to work in their profession. There we all need to come. We know that the pressure is tremendous. I know that a health minister has been working on it, and this is one of its main concerns and aims first and last to reduce the pressure. We need to find ways not only to do so but also to improve the quality of their ministry. We HCPs have considered how to make common use of our powers, at least regarding the growth in the study. I can assure you what. A senator's concern is that nurses are extremely important in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u179	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I agree with her completely because the nurse lacks a lot of pain and the bite of those who should, especially those who are sick. But there's something else in this I noticed in the news yesterday. It was talking about whether people were taking student loans, and there were horror stories about them. People were terrified, said they didn't want to take a student loan, just stay home. What I'm thinking about in this context is whether those who take student loans and then go to the job market are going to spill out on their student loans because the pay they receive are not high enough. Of course, there is a exchange between pay and student loans. Those who choose this long and demanding study say that the pay is not in harmony with what they graduate. As a result, people avoid binding on student loans. Of course, it is very good to have such a funding system that 30% of the loan will be left behind. However, I ask myself, " Isn't there something else we have to do so that people don't fear the loans? ' Then, what measures are being taken for those who are e.g. with dyslexia or writing blindness and discharge from college so that these people can be caught, given the opportunity to get back into the system, and they can start working? I know, for example. that many poor people who want to study complain about not being able to do so because they cannot afford to do so. They will not be loaned or strengthened to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u180	A respectable president. It is clear, and we see in these numbers that there has been a great decrease in number among those who apply for student loans. Why am I worried about that? I'm worried about that because I think it will take on equal opportunities to study in Iceland. As I mentioned in my reply, some people have the ability to live in their parents'home to begin with study, and others who cannot and their terms are much worse, not just inferior when they are studying, but for the future because the members owe them considerably more. One of the main thoughts in this bill is that of equalizing the standard of living, from the economy, from the home, or from the like. Let me give you an example of the new and old system. I am here with Jóna, who studied five years, took her master's degree, and she has three children. In the old system, it borrowed 10.6 million. After her loan is dropped by 30% and strengthened by her children, she will owe 5.8 million in her new system. This is a huge change. Instead of paying off her loan for 27 years, she has to pay for it 17 years. These are very radical system changes that will contribute to greater equations. Hv. A senator mentioned those who struggle with dyslexia. It's very serious, and it can be extremely difficult for the person to get up in education, but it's pretty good to come back to school in Iceland. This government has to bring down the 25-year rule, i.e. that it would be harder for those 25 years of age to apply for studies in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u181	A respectable president. In the 2020 budget bill, the total cost of the state during the year is expected to be about 1,005 billion. The share of transportation and rural government accounts for about 74 billion, i.e. 7.3%. The bill expects the Ministry's budget to rise by 8.1% per year, about 5.5 billion. This adds up to over 10 billion increases in the last two years, 2018, and 2019. So large amounts of money are added in transport, enabling us to take huge leaps into the future - and not provide - and to provide stronger support for competitive, economic, and competitive living. Passage and communications are approaching nearly 48 billion. The vast majority of transport activities, or more than 45 billion, increase by 11.1% per year. The road system has been too small to sustain, but 27 billion flows to a range of projects that are increasing by 16.8% between the years. I promised the country good results next year, but there has been a significant reversal of transport income and no longer need to look beyond the year 2017 to see that the budget has increased by 53% since that time - but it was over 9 billion lower. The main focus is to build up for development from the capital area and the separation of driving policies. The actions of an animal tunnel will be completed in the year and will be at sea for a long time in the Vestfjords of the Gufudal Desert. In response to increased traffic in the country, there is a donation to services such as snowstorm, sharks, and rafts. an increase of 12% between the years and a rate of more than 6 billion, since 2017 this increase is 34%. This will increase the contribution to national flight by 137 million; from 2017 on, the increase is 48%. Maintenance will be emphasised, including Reboot of wear and tear on the Eel position airport and the government's cost of flight costs within the country for the inhabitants of the country. It is the so - called Scottish way. This will be presented next week by the government and rural society agreements in the capital area to 15 years of age and will deal with the construction of transport workers, public transport, traffic security, climate issues, and easy transport. A major target of telecommunication is the national initiative to fix fiber optics outside market areas in rural areas under the national project called Iceland light-related. A year to come is the fifth and second most recent year by which the state strengthens the fiber - optic development of its rural society by means of telecommunications funds, which has studied some 450 million. K. every year. The next year, there will be progressive steps to improve Internet security. In part, rural and rural areas include contributions to rural SPC, which become more than 21 billion and grow by 3.9% between years. Among the next year's projects, there is a change in the terms of an equation fund to ensure increased financial support for the cohesion of rural society. I must say that last week, when the European Union Parliament agreed to agree to a proposal to the National Parliament to recommend that the Council agree to the proposal for a policy plan of the State on the affairs of rural society for the next five years. This is a big stage on a long journey, and over the next few weeks, all members of the council will be testing the proposal for Congress. I have high expectations that the situation will be resolved successfully and in great agreement. We stand at milestones and can take our course toward a major improvement in public government. There is an increase of 2.8% and over 2 billion, respectively. Of these, more than half go to the national community plan and target areas, more than 1.1 billion. I think these financiers are well spent. As an example of a project, I mention a long - term health service, but through a structured program, equipment purchases in that regard will be supported. Then I would also like to mention support to telecommunications centres, which are involved in getting public data into the digital form and increasing the number of job tools in the region. Iceland's financial records rise by 5.6% between years, with a total of less than 2 billion. This is mainly explained by an increase in the number of companies due to a new service, but for example, the Agency plans to publish electronic travel conditions. Improvements in the national index system have been unsettled, but there is little evidence that the system can meet the needs of the lawgiver. During the past year, several prime reports have been made during the council, which require changes in the national records system. As a result, improvements in the system are moving slower than desirable. The next year, there will be progressive steps to increase Internet security in line with the new release bill of this material. The Network Security Force for the Post and Communications Agency will be provided with additional and special equipment. This will be taken into account by the Web site for notification of a security problem that is going contrary to government and institutions. In the field of mail, the decision to compete in this field will be made in response to the isolation of Iceland's private rights e-mail. Governments will still have access to a national minimum mail service and they are working on the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u182	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for performing an attempt to get big in a short overview that may be considered exhaustive on all the many projects he has at his disposal in the local management and transportation department department department department's office in five minutes. You are now reading of a plan to place tens of billions of dollars in a so - called city line to pay for public transportation in the capital area, which in itself is worth a good price. Yet, they are even more concerned with most of the people of the country, and especially the capital of the capital city, which is the main road to Kjalarnes, which is protected by many local squares. Now I want to ask the highest. A minister would have walked or run with plans for the Daffway, which has been on the table for years if not decades and would solve traffic problems in the whole area, as well as provide escape routes from the city, to form in case of a public defense situation. Is there anything going on with this project, or what? I see at the Minister's Constitution that a transport program is expected to appear in October. and I'm really looking forward to seeing her. In fact, that has been a waiting period during the past session for a travel program. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is a transport plan coming in October or not? I'm asking the highest, too. Minister: Has the Ministry, or Minister, further advanced charges and how? I also see that it's supposed to be a bill for this in November. How are you planning to go to the top? Minister extending charges?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u183	A respectable president. I went over a lot in five minutes, but what? The two were even more addressed by a senator and asked me many questions. I'm sure I could need 20 minutes to answer. But I'd be careful if I were you. The senator who interprets the so - called capital package until it is introduced and signed, and then we could discuss it. As I was saying in my case, it's about the entire concept of government, other than state and rural society that have achieved an overall vision, a vision of the construction of traffic in order to achieve different transport targets, climate targets, air quality, public transport, and so forth. When that conclusion is reached, let us discuss it. Part of the conversation we've had in the last year and a half with our local rural communities in the capital area has been about how we can plant the Sunway, which has been a conversation, a discussion, like that. A senator came on, for at least 30 years, some say 45, but for the last 10◯15 years in some form of communication between the roadtype and the city. It's over. We've reached a common view of certain things. There are two distinct options for the key link to Reykjavík, i.e. whether it is possible to enter a tunnel or to travel a so - called low bridge that would be even better. However, this requires further discussions with the Faxcial Seas, Reykjavíkurburg, and possibly their organisations about their changing arrangements. Of course, that bridge would be inexpensive, but above all, it would be a much better means of transport to the Grafar Heart and the link between our system. It would be far more useful, a bicycle, a walking, and a variety of trips. [[The president calls.]] I need to use the latter part of my reply to review all the other questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u184	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his answer, and especially I'd like to rejoice that he shares my interest in solving issues relating to the Dizziness Way. I have a few more questions. I was going for one. asking the highest question. Minister, how the newest watering plan was planned. A minister of the aquaculture of the East would come to play together with other painstaking soils in the country and could mention a number of planned or estimated tunnels in many parts of the country, how they play together. I also want to ask the highest. Minister on domestic flights, whether the Minister thinks it is necessary to eliminate the value tax from fuel in a national flight just as much as the one known in the international flight. I know it's not in the press, but I'm asking if he shares with me that it's unfair that international fuel is worth taxing, not international. Finally, I have a question about the Pacific Harbor harbor. Most it is clear that this port has taken most of the changes in recent years, i.e. Cape Town Harbor, Elf's harbor. For the first time, a large part of Europe's fresh water flows through the South Coast, as well as another import and export has benefited by short-term market routes. The voyage will be shorter, since there is no need to sail for the Rhine to Reykjavík. This saves and much less causes less greenhouse gas emissions. That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister, who is also a council member of the Southland government, has received a report prepared for Southern rural communities on the economic and social impacts of the Coalition of the Coalition and on which he intends to provide the suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. The Senator earlier claimed that this was a regular schedule for transportation. I don't know what it is, so I'll answer it. We produced a transport program as soon as possible last year and at a time when it was possible because the currently established policy strategy was coming out. I think it's done well, and the council handled her well. But we also said that we had a lot of cases in our pipes, for example, for the domestic flights, for the capital area, for tunnels, and for the things we needed a little more time. Therefore, we will expect to bring up an updated transport plan immediately next year, although the law says so at least every three years. I think we're doing it and it'll be up in October, hopefully mid-O October, with all the factors in it. This includes: plans for a specific land tunnel program as part of a transport programme. It is primarily the tunnel that the last transport program said was next on schedule, i.e. A tunnel to Sufjörður. There is a report on how this priorities should be considered by the relevant person and we are now looking at it at the Ministry in cooperation with the Vega program and we need to discuss it with an environmental and transport committee as well, and I plan to do so. Or so can you, because of what you're doing. A senator mentioned more tunnels, that a double Hölfjörður gang might not be in this report or at least just referred to as a special project because it would likely be made by a so - called cooperation route, as we knew by the Halfjörður tunnel. The same would be true of a tunnel through a vagabond mountain and a lowland road through the Snow Valley, which would likely also be such a project, a means of cooperation where it would be done in a special way. Then finally, I'd like to join in with the Cove. Wonderful things have been done there, including with the support of the state, the past few years, and the importance of following it, since there are very interesting plans upstairs and the structure there has gone very well, and it is inexpensive in view of what was once proposed, and I examined from the turn of the century. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u186	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent passage. I'd like to talk about transportation, transportation, a major offense, an alleged macro, and we won't be aware of it. Yet, it is not reasonable to say that we are at the great stop but that we continue to be calm and slow. It is being done on a maintenance project and natural projects, but it is not a major offense. On the other hand, we have been discussing a lot, and the discussion of new projects has been a big deal, but we had ended up in the discussion. There is a huge need, and all we need to do is look to the city, the neighboring town up on Kjalarnesi. We're grounded on financing. We do not believe that we can afford to finance roads in the same way. There's a big interest in improving the road. It's environmental, and it's a security issue. We're losing too many people in accidents. There have been dramatic declarations on how to charge charges, from the time that the road is to sell to workers so that they have earned it or not. I'm asking the highest. A minister for the purpose that yesterday, in the media, an interview was made with the acting head of the Environment and Transport Committee for the development of macropolitical settlements on the extent of each of these organizations. Does he believe that an agreement is concluded here at the General Assembly and that the state of the resolution within the council? [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. Don't Minister need us to sit down and discuss these matters without incident from A to Z?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who is the Brjánsson of Brun, and will say, 'The brain of men is full of spirit.' I know why. A senator stands to discuss matters objectively, and so can I. That is exactly what has been going on in that discussion. A senator was referring to the construction of the capital area, it is now a good catch in the reality of the situation, I think I'll be right on it, any group sitting in Iceland in town or in the city council in Reykjavík. Here at the council last year, we also discussed these matters, and there was some agreement that people would like to be able to move forward, so I think we're on the way. Of course, this is not the case, which is for the development of a transport plan and a discussion at the council. There's a chance for a discussion. But because of him. A senator began talking about the alleged increase and talked it down, that there was nothing to be done, then I've traveled a bit much about the country in the summer and I have to say just as it is that I am a lot of projects. I've seen much progress, perhaps only hope when transportation funding, as I did in my case, has increased 53% since 2017. If we look at how much we are working and maintaining in the next year, about 27 or 28 billion, and watch, for example. to 2010 or 2011 - I know it's unfair - it was 51⁄26 billion. But should we say 2017 when it was about 9 billion? The increase is tremendous, sharp. Senator. Only now are 6 billion, the same amount that took on both maintenance and implementation in 2010 and 2011. [[The president calls.]] It is an enormous increase that has taken place over the years. This is not to be expected, the big offense has begun, and we will see further projects in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u188	A respectable president. Actually, I didn't say that nothing was happening but that expectations were far more in light of high - sounding statements. In terms of the funding of the road system, we are not sure that we need to improve the road system, the huge wood we rely on so much. How we do so may be a bit of a career, but let us take that discussion. We can look to the experiences of neighboring nations. Norwegians have funded much of their road system and, increasingly, funded expenses; they control various aspects of the road system in this way, and have gone beyond many. They also put pressure on their system in this way. But they're also, that I think, completely towards tolerability. A few days ago, in recent rural elections, political powers were influenced, which have the sole purpose of the project working against charges. Hence, when considering the discussion, we need to ask ourselves: " How far are we going in this regard? What frame will we put our hands on this? I expect us to find out if it's true that it's the transnational harmony of all political parties on this subject, and hopefully we'll be able to land it in an acceptable way. But one thing is certain: We need to put more money into the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u189	A respectable president. I knew you could trust me. A senator to handle the discussion objectively. That is exactly what we need to do. Actually, I'm not that the expectations of major projects in Iceland are based on some very dramatic statements. I feel much more than that people simply don't accept the road system they live on around the country after all the traffic expansion that has taken place in recent years. By making large contributions in recent years, we acknowledge that for a long time we put too little money into this. So I think my expectations are just normal. But it may be our job to make people aware that we cannot do everything at once. That's why we're trying to set priorities for 15 years, so we may also be saying that we all want to say that we all, I think, would be more successful in perhaps seven, eight years. Then the question is, How do we do it? Is it possible that people really want, as I have, for example. Hear from people from the east who were covering a tunnel that said that they were willing to watch the small - eared model where user fees depend on the cost of performance if they were to become that project far earlier on schedule, while people would get more traffic security earlier, more efficient, and facilitate traffic? Then there is another discussion, and I can agree. A senator that some countries, Norway, have been called, must have gone far too far in paying the additional fee for financing. I don't think that in itself is a goal. Of course, the government can look at the way cars are taken and how they use them. We know that within a few years, we need to change it because fuel costs will go down, so we may be a little bit in the phase of discussing how we can use a new opportunity to speed up projects without adding large amounts to car owners. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any point in that itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u190	Mr. President. We here discuss an enormously important group of subjects, and it is a joy to see that much longer donations are being spent in the new and maintenance of the transport system than in the past few years. Hopefully in the years to come, we will see further increases. I'd like to go to the top priority of 2020 on transport, mainly the point of equalizing access to service for citizens in the country with high costs in international flight costs. It would be interesting to hear from the highest level. Minister of staff how that case is in the Ministry. Home - to - land prices are beginning to take on the quality of life of those living in the country. That's what we know. It is expensive to fly, and the inhabitants of the country must be able to attend the necessary services in the capital area by transportation, including domestic flights. It is necessary to meet high prices on national flights by implementing the Scottish route that provides citizens with a legal home in a certain area just for discounting airline expenses. In this way domestic flights will be a practical option for the people of the country, and it will fit the habitat conditions. A recent report was submitted to this issue, including the U.S. The Scottish route and the flying system. A greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee adopted these suggestions and entered the majority opinion in January and then adopted the Council's Scottish route in early February 48 votes. I'm interested in knowing about the progress of the situation and how we are going to handle this matter, which is one of the key issues of the Ministry of Transport in the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u191	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The remains of Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, for asking about the so - called Scottish way that he knows very well. He was the chairman of a group of workers who suggested that this approach be considered in order to improve domestic flights. We made suggestions for our work on the transport program last year, and it was a joy to see broad support at the council. We in the Ministry have been working on the outworking of that matter since then, examining all possible problems that may arise or interfere with this approach, such as whether it is a natural government policy. To this end, I went to Scotland shortly ago with staff to get all the information. We meet there with the Scottish secretary of transportation, and we are very close with the Scots. The Secret Service said it was a 2006 test project for two years, and then it extended to four each time. He simply said: "Fly is expensive, and it does not depend on these places. " It's hard to keep on the flight. Without this route, there would be no flight, and if we were to stand at that point now, knowing what we know, but wondering which way we should go, we would go that way again. I found this to be a very strong message from someone who has had this long experience in running the system. They've succeeded, including with pressure from rural communities and residents in the communities where this is, to get the airlines to compete to keep the price as low as possible. They do not take advantage of this opportunity with additional support to raise prices. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the price for change in pay and cost of operating is increasing, but this has worked out well. We're on our way in, but it's still gonna take time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u192	Mr. President. On page 18. 221 Regarding the 2020 main transport project, Isa's discussion of the New York International Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Airport points indicates that there will be no discussion with Is needed. What has happened to them during the past few months, and how do people picture this? In 2011, air support in Iceland fell as a team of ideas began to be developed that reported in 2009. Prior to that, 1988•2010, the flying system had an average figure of 1,450 million per year, but when the new system reached 2011, these contributions went down to an average of 350 million. They dropped four times. I'm interested in hearing from the highest. Minister if he has examined the Ministry the issues involved in financing the flying system and how to try to straighten it out. As a result, all the maintenance and innovation of the U.S. airport systems have suffered greatly, causing airports to be badly affected in many parts of the country. There is a great need to deal with the issues involved in maintaining and implementing the airport system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u193	A respectable president. This is the other point we brought in into the transport programme last year, and the environment and transport committee adopted. This is one of the points that are also discussed in a report. Senator. If we look at the North countries, they'll use that kind of cross-country, i.e. Sisters, though, run several airports, everyone in a single country, and the income there will be used to run less. It was suggested in a transport program, which is the General policy that I work for. You're right next door. According to a senator's description of a system change, the price of a second flight ticket was canceled, including Because they thought that it was not legal, that it had to be tax, not a price. That, however, is the case. It may be difficult to put it on track at this time in the international environment, but it is obvious to both environmental and economic benefits because in Iceland there are reserve airports for airlines because it can save hundreds of millions, even well, in another billion, by using the names of international reserve airports. But he must be kind and at hand that may have been lacking because there has been too little money there for a few years. We can see this system change, which is everywhere else in the North countries, that we would achieve this success, but we have to be careful not to get negative into the structure of Isavia's design in Chefavavík and, on the other hand, to watch the whole flight system. The money that went out there was to run a reserve airport. [[The president calls.]] We've taken them out of the state fund recently and held them up a reserve system that might have been weaker than we should have done, but far beyond what we would have to do if this were only local airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u194	A respectable president. Over the past few months, we've been dealing with Iceland's Environment and Transport Committees, and we've been able to find out what's going on there. Substitution has provided a report to the Parliament on that subject, and various comments have been made on that report. Now there is one of the main projects 2020 in the budget bill on this topic field for the introduction of a new overall mail service program, including with validation and follow-up to an upcoming service contract between Iceland and the accessories from January 1 on 2020. At first, I'd like to make a note that Icelanders are self-employed. There could be a much more variety of selections, and there were other possibilities in the bill. I don't feel comfortable seeing an estimated Icelanders come to take care of this. Second, I ask about the amount that is expected for this service contract. Based on the figures we've got out of Iceland's account, it seems that there's a lot to be wandering about how much, how much to be charging for the exclusive rights and the services back and forth, i.e. that the competitive part does not carry the cost of operating costs or the like. This is a matter of particular caution as far as Iceland is concerned before 2020, what kind of precautionary steps we are actually taking before a very long and expensive service contract is made with Iceland, what we should do before that step is taken, and maybe if it has not been completed, we should take care of that service contract initially. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, to address the postal issues. In a big department where transportation is taking a little bit of action, sometimes it's forgotten. But the mail is important, and it is important to ensure minimal service, and that is why we took this bill forward, because we were the last European states to side with the exclusive rights that have caused all kinds of problems, such as today. A senator came in. It's true, though, that about Iceland's business, he's under the Department of Economics, they're monitoring the operation there, so I'm not going to answer for it. But I can answer for the other thing, that the post and communications agency is actually an independent surveillance provider, much like the SEC and the Contestance Commission in their own fields, and they're following them. There, the need for public service has been evaluated and that there has not been a mixture of income, such as porridge. A senator has crossed over. It's an independent surveillance agency, and we've also got the results of Public Review in such a way that we have a lot of data. If we look ahead on the road and on the service contract, it has been experience, and therefore the bill was written up, in our neighboring countries, that it was composed first with the parties or with the institution that had usually been an institution or company in that nation, who started with the service. Since then, men may have tried to find other ways that are more practical or even better, some new person who is willing to offer a better service, I will not rule it out. But the Ministry has made it a point to try to weigh this cost by getting independent parties, such as the National Institute of Economics (U.S.A.) for the University of Iceland. Iceland was once with foreign experts to do so. [[The president calls.]] But this is the immediate task now, and we may be getting closer to the real cost of the worldwide service load. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u196	Mr. President. I'm going to try to ask you about two very different types of transportation and transportation. It has been observed that there has been quite a few close flights in Reykjavík in the last few months, e.g. Four times now the rest of this month, and in many areas the maintenance of domestic flights is not good enough. The transport section of the bill says, with the permission of the President: ▪ Revelation, a partner of Istavia ohf. the maintenance, implementation and services of the flying system, aviation plan, and a flight guide according to a service contract. I wondered, " Is it not the time to revise this service contract or to adjust the arrangement in such a way that it may move to a standard public service, rather than to have it as a matter of profit, which is required, and whether enough money is needed to cover the maintenance and service that is needed? ' Ending on key assignments 2020, it is also referred to as "employmentary. " the building of stratospheric footpaths for pedestrians and bikers. I would like to ask, since the road structure has a legal obligation to support safe, sustainable, economic, and economic transport and to contribute to the development of transport in accordance with local and environmental objectives, whether there is sufficient money to support the road structure of the cycle, both in the capital area and in many parts of the country. This is something that has gone on increasing in recent years and is a real need for good and rapid action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u197	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent inquiries. Senator. Regarding the finals in Reykjavík, a field of whispers. A senator because a few days ago, I had heard nothing about them and, in fact, I have not received any answers and will ask for them from Istavia and what they were wearing. Of course, about the international airports, the big news that we have placed too little money in them for too long is big. Hence, we are looking at the changing support patterns at the battlefield in order to ensure that flight will be safer, more frequent, more efficient, and thus more used. At the same time, I think it's clear that the structure plans for those faults must come from a trust fund. This is not different from what we see in Norway, which, however, uses a cross-corpse in the business, that when some building project is done, a contribution may be made to it from a government fund, and this may be one of the points we consider. This would be related to a service contract that we have planned to do for a long time and to see a little further ahead so that Istavia might move within a year, knowing that these contributions will come in the next few years. Regarding bicycles and walking, we are asked: Is it safe to believe that the road itself has enough money to do everything? Of course not! The road system can always use more money, but it puts much emphasis on that money, not only in our rural areas but also in a transport program because it is not just within the capital area where people want to ride between places and not only within their communities but also in the space of longer chapters, as we have seen in the Ecstasy. We've been studying this on the Southnes and in the South, we've been doing these things. I'm telling you, in the next few years, we're going to see a great deal of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u198	Mr. President. I'm gonna start with the transport and move to the countryside later. But I'm going to start by celebrating 11How16.7% of the world's political advance on the road to transport, depending on whether we're going to make a bill of state or make money. I also welcome the paraphernalia of rural areas that will soon end. This is one of the few that I can briefly mention. I'm gonna ask you four questions to the highest level. Minister, all very light, with leaves. It is on the one hand with the footways and crossways outside the capital area. How will funding be restored in the near future guaranteed under financial or otherwise? Second, it's about the Vest farway in a Gufldalian regiment, his financing, and I'm not talking about the end of it. Third, I would like to mention the funding of public transportation outside the capital area. At the latest, this was a cohesive and financing of construction. There are two other ports on our long south coast, i.e. Capes and land island crew. What will be the budget for the urgent projects? There are, of course, ports that are very important and that have been in trouble, if we can say so, both Cape and landy. It is vital that this be done well. It's my four laundrums to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for four leaves. In a short period of time, it may be a little difficult to answer. But as for the rails, the footways, it's one of the bigger challenges, I think, in the next year, how we can raise money to them, and that's what we're trying to study in a transport program. I think there are some 900 million who go to this class that then divides into different areas. Today, we plan to increase this to 1,250 in 2024 and to 1,300,700,000 a year thereafter, ten years thereafter. The challenge is to move it quickly and move it again. It can be hard to put everything in place, but I think this might be interesting. The distribution per area is in line with the duration of a malarlink road, but we have also been considering a variety of factors that could be considered unchanged. It's less expensive. Regarding the Western road, financial resources are similar to those of the past. I don't know anything else, if the local community answers the comments that have been made, but that there could be a contract and a publication, and then the road could go to an invitation in the fall. I hope so. That's what I'm looking for. There is a lack of financial resources for public transport, and we need to look to it in the next financial programme. We're putting there 600,700 million, and I think there's a need to make it better. We're initiating a new system now for the next few years, and we'll just start to see where we need to add and how much it's gonna cost, so I think we've got a shot there. I don't have much time in the harbors, but then I'll name Hornaf Park, and maybe take the Western Islands after that, we'll expect to be reassigned to a sandphrain at the Oneholt Rock right next year and the next year, and then we'll be reinvented on the Grand Prix. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is very important to examine. It is also important to examine more depth, and it has something to do with land conditions that we can follow through with the permission of the president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u200	Mr. President. Then the local government. I would like to be happy to know that they are going to promote the level of government, and there are other issues, such as telecommunications outside the capital area and distant health services that are important in this regard. These are all the things that will promote the country in my opinion. But what I'm going to ask is three times, and I'm going to reduce the number of questions about one. First of the highest opinion. Minister to the national part-of-the-part partnership. They're talking about either the need to promote them or at least I'd like to know how they should be, and I'd like to hear a minister's opinion of it. These include funding and the implementation of the Agency for fractured settlements, parish plans, and other services at the highest level. Minister mentioned. What is the real experience there? Is there good reason to spit in, or has this system not worked properly? Third and final, it focuses on the control and, on the other, the overall organization of wastes. Preservation is expensive, as everyone knows, especially since the receptor is fragile and has been called upon to respond to it at the same time. Then I ask, for example. about the degradation of the value tax or otherwise, what's going on. So on the total waste planning, at least two ways. We can call it large combustion on a national scale or other type of recycling and inclusion within the country or export. There are various ways of doing this, so to speak. This is to be done, as I understand it, and it is revealed in the financial or financial structure. What's the top order? A minister tells us about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u201	A respectable president. Short of land island crew: They're about to finish around a newuth, the piers, so called stopfenders, that's being planned now and then they're building up the electrical lines, but there's something to think again how we can dive, especially in the fall. It is very important to keep the harbor open as much as possible. However, this may also be related to what we just mentioned with Grynslin in the Hornfjord where the land is rising, whether there is some comparable experience that we can use in both places. I think it's very interesting to look at it, and it's put an extra weight on the road. Regarding the national body, there is a special working group in the spirit of the Constitution to try to define their role. They have gradually developed into a third level of government that we've never made up of, and I don't think anyone really wants to. That is why it is important that we do so. In this context, however, we would do well to consider that the government has decided to divide the country differently by various factors. The national body of eight is out in the country, the old districts. They work very hard together. However, the health problems are different, such as national health experts cannot be compared in national parish programmes because these are not the same areas. The travel service then has a whole different area before the launch, and that's not exactly how it talks. I've been calling attention to the fact that this needs to be considered, that we just keep the number eight when we distribute the Kingdom organization. With regard to fracture risks there is good experience. Whether to spit more, it may well be in individual areas. It has largely been inhabited, not entirely, as well as the Scrotum of Skaft Years, a number of graduates. I'm not going to argue that they're very strong, but at least they're as fragile as they were. I think it's very important for the state to come up with an overall waste system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Environmental Ministers and I have had an excellent meeting to present in the winter some ideas for supporting our rural communities in irrigation matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u202	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of this passage. I'm one of those people who've been really worried about how it's been going on around here for a long time. Sadly, when it should be a good way of making major progress, the result has been very much the opposite, as is often desired in times of distress. Investments have been put forward, and we are left with the consequences of a ten - year investment, especially in the road system. Thus, looking at the situation today, I am greatly disappointed that after this unprecedented increase in Kingdom spending during the past five, six years, there has still been no room for funding needed roads through the financial budget. Especially do we look at the cold messages to the southwest corner that there are no funds for the necessary road projects that have advanced in the decade beyond recovery. There are, of course, tax increases, even though they call them a nice name tax fee. I am, in effect, more disappointed when you see the lack of respect for the Generals to include in the discussion a plan for major projects and schemes in the capital area. Parapolitic agreements are said to be about this approach, but the smaller part of the General Assembly has not been allowed to see anything about that plan. In fact, you ask, since this was supposed to be introduced, if the reconciliation is as good within the governments as it is then. I have to admit that I think it's a small ambition and would have liked to see in this financial bill quite a little more emphasis on investment, but not on business spending as much as it is, and then it shows that it was specifically directed to transportation so that we could avoid the tax promotions announced by the Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u203	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen and the highest. The minister should respect speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u204	A respectable president. Thanks for the tip. Hv. A senator claims to be one of the doubters. I listened to what I heard. A senator and his party in discussions about the policy debate two days ago, where he spoke of a resolution, a retreat, and I don't know what and what. Besides, he's been coming here on a regular basis, critical of a lot of government expenses. But I agree with what. The senator's handling of expenses and expenses differs from that. When we are in the economic situation today, spending on investments is needed. But I disagree. A senator said that the expenses of our last few years on welfare were unnecessary and that we have gone too far. I think it was necessary. I think that money is being spent there wisely, and the next year 78 billion investments are considerably higher than last year. That's 27 billion. Right away. A senator would come here and say that he is one of those who question and speak of the restoration and resolution of the government class, perhaps he should read the data and ask himself what number he would like to see. Would he have been pleased with 28 billion? I saw in my suggestions the sum of the budget last year that 50 million and 100 million were about to rise above one another. What number is that? A senator wanted to see without disturbing state funds, without having a negative influence on money policy and the opinion of the World members of Iceland? What were we to increase if there were no 27 billion and 78 billion for transport in two years? Is that a resolution? Is it also a sign of evaporation and deterioration when people think outside the box based on a discussion of the transport program at the council, including: ... witha party of what? A member of the city of Reykjavík, where they say, "We're ready to do that? [[The president calls.]] Is it the secretary of transportation who needs to speak to every senator in prison and personally, or is it possible to interact with groups without each individual senator coming up here and saying that there is no consultation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u205	Mr. President. It is hardly a matter of time before the minister has promoted criticism. He may then listen to the answer. There's been a transfer in this hall before. I would have liked to see an increase in money investments from the government in this financial bill. I've mentioned it many times, saying: It is the gathering of the bloc on the watch of this government by unprecedented means and continuing to starve investments. Then they talk about paying taxes, but they're getting older with tax increases in the back and calling them a different name. It may well be at the top. A minister has spoken to many about this matter, but he has not spoken to the smaller portion here in this hall, not by any word, nor in any public way presented the current plans. V.E.G. In the winter, however, a minister had a transport program that left nothing for the southwest corner and said: "Well, it's a bit of an affair with us, but we're going to make a new plan in the fall where we can handle it. Before it appears, we have already been informed that the funding route to the capital area will be a tax increase in the capital area, users of this system. And what has not been said yet, but as a direct result, the inhabitants of Smokeytown and New Yearville and neighbors have to pay for a double on the Smokejanes Way and the Southland and a new Elfjörður bridge with road expenses. The message from this government, from the highest. Transporter, to the southwestern corner is: You have to pay extra if you're going to get some more transportation. I don't think that's a special ambition. It is simply a fact that the government investment level is still below average. There are 400 billion people missing in public investments in order to earn loose money from the ten years of age, and this government is just doing nothing to work up that slope except to add a spell and place a specific charge on the southwestern corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u206	A respectable president. No, I don't mess with criticism. I just point out what. A senator was the executive director of the Association of Employment and repeatedly called for a decrease in interest of interest. Has a what? A senator notices that the growth rate in the country is the lowest from the time this money policy was adopted? It's what it is. A senator that may be due to the economic policies of this government that work in harmony with money policy? And can it be working with the labour markets that the biographies have achieved that we have a stable decrease in growth?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u207	It's not...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u208	It's what it is. A senator that might be? Has a what? A senator saw it playing an interaction in a downturn in Iceland that's happening right now? No, no, no. A senator hasn't seen it. That's why it's unfair of him to come up here and scream like that. He says: "Yes, I would have liked to see an increase of over 30 to 50 billion. He doesn't want to change his target, he wants to return more rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u209	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u210	Isn't that right? So that's a new one. It has been the tone for the past two years, perhaps it has come to realize that it is now that we are not supposed to make much change, to subtract, and that is why we can add extra expenses to investments. In case of a moment. A senator's plan is to increase it by about 30 to 750 billion, and then he's gonna cut it down. A senator will come up here and say who he's going to start surgery. I can predict where it will be, but we just don't have enough minutes. It could still be a fun conversation. Hv. A senator comes here and talks about a resolution and a retreat, once again, and the three strategists pretending to be of a liberal future, but he doesn't even understand that we're changing energy where the fuel charges are disappearing, since we're going into a whole different period of time and user expenditures will take over. I'm not standing here asking for more spells on car owners. I'm just saying, if we can do things differently and do things more quickly with the benefits for the people of the country and the climate issues, then why? A senator - it may well be that our restoration has not gone there but in word - but if we can do all of this at the same time, we will greatly increase our progress as growth and economics flourish, we will be in the right place, won't we? þm. The Þorsteinn of Wazowski. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u211	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary for his history of transport today. But what is it about transportation? Yes, there is a highway in urban areas, i.e. When you get stuck on your way to work every morning, a way you can usually drive within 15 minutes, but it takes up to an hour and a half to two hours to leave morning and evening. I can't help but think, " What genius invented this road system? ' Was he so great a genius that he just forgot to hook this highway to its Seltiannes, put a telephone note there, or live on its Seltiannes and laugh there, laughing at all the stupidity, having to go through all the rural areas of the country to get to the west? When I moved to Hafnarfjörður nearly 40 years ago, there was a drawing table above the surface. It's a highway that most of them are abroad, and others who have some thought have come on, a road where they drive down and then down into that rural society or the town they want to go to, as if you should go to Kopavog, you'd just go down to Kopavog. But having to drive through all the rural communities to get to the west of a feather is ridiculous. What, though, is to be done? No, that is not to be done. There's talk of a city line. She won't save anything. It's been talked about for years, and it doesn't matter. The wait's just going up. The dam gets bigger, nothing done. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why not shake it up and take up the top road and put it on a rope?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u212	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for the questions. A big question may be, Who created the road system in Iceland? I got calls from some people who had driven through Iceland, and I thought maybe I was going to talk about something else, for example. Said how bad the road system was, but then it said, "I've been driving around Iceland, and I didn't realize what the road system in Iceland is like. You've figured it out - we've got 13,000 miles -- what we've built up an amazingly fancy road system for a short period of time, really. This has been since in the last few years, perhaps just five, six years, top ten, has greatly increased, mainly because of the increased number of tourists making much worse progress. In the capital area, of course, it's been that way, maybe because we made decisions in this room 150 years ago and we've kept a little strong that here we were going to have the best of all services, preferably down here downtown. Everything that is built by the state shall be here, and everything shall be brought here. This may be the real policy we've had for 150 years, despite all the others who are trying to work against the big. This has meant that people have increased in number and traffic. One of the things we're working on right now in cooperation with our rural society in the capital area, and I'm so happy about it, is a vision for the future. One thing that could come out of it is a Daffy Way, which I know is why. A senator would be glad to hear. In fact, I could not see how the surface road would save the connection with its Seltiannes. But there is another matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u213	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, that is very good, and it is a good system outside of Reykjavík, and there is not much dam. Still, we are always stuck on our way to and from work. There's something else that's worrying me a lot, and that's what I'm going to do. If it's true, we could have a road tax of 400,000. Every car every year, I say, "Guð help us." Because they will suffer most in the least way, people who have been led to believe in the hall that they are getting tax cuts. But this would be one of the biggest tax increases on the individuals, people who spend much of their old cars trying to keep on walking, people who try to earn gas for the rest of the month. And then we're going to put taxes on them for driving around the streets. But we forget that parking owners today pay about 80 billion in taxes. Of them, more than half go to road repair, super cool, let only motor car owners pay more and more taxes, people who can't even support themselves today. Is it being designed to make such a system that the private car is for the chosen ones who can afford it, the richer than the rest, what, by the city line? How is a person going to take a city line and have to go to the end to get his baby for daily care and then back home? How is the city line going to solve the problem? I say for my part, we have to think it over for everyone, but not for a few chosen ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u214	A respectable president. I'm saying what I said to someone else. A senator: You should be careful to interpret what they read in the media until work with an agreement in the capital area is completed, signed, and introduced. Then we will be able to discuss the facts seriously, but we will not be able to escape some media that try to steal attention on the wrong grounds. I agree with what. A senator says something is not going to save anything. The city line alone does not save traffic congestion or solve everything in the area. Also, two or three misdirected corners would not save everything that has to be solved in the capital area. Similarly, one tire path or footpath would not do that. That's exactly what we're doing. We're taking all of this together, watching the whole thing. Of course, each other's community has to go on and at the same time make sure that the services within the local core in which people live are available are at the same time. But that people with a variety of portable, walking, bicycle, bus, or car can go on their journeys. No one's talked about taxes, except why. Senators have been talking about it. We're primarily talking about a change in traffic models, perhaps a VAT model. We're talking about hurrying up the project. We're talking about visualizing things in a larger context for a longer time as solutions for everyone living in this area and throughout the country, but not for some particular solution because they don't work. I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u215	A respectable president. In short, I'm explaining the key points of a bill to the budget for a topic field that will fit in with the Ministry of State. The change has been made that these are now two, in place of one previously being, a topic area of 4 Foreign languages and a topic field of 35 International Development Teamwork. The main projects involved in these issues are security and defense, foreign trade, civil service and national rights, development cooperation and humanitarian work. The financial bill under discussion is based on a five-year financial program adopted by the General Assembly. Spring. The bill assumes that total donations at the Ministry of State increase a total of less than 1.1 billion dollars. and a total of more than 18 billion. Of these, only two thirds of total financial clearances and one third of international development cooperation. First, I'm going to get back to Sector 4 Foreign Affairs. All the resources available to the topic area are 12.5 billion dollars. Next year, it's going to be 930 billion. K. actual value. In the coming year, the active participation of Iceland in international cooperation will be emphasized, where main projects must protect national rights by active participation in the field of international institutions, executives in the Arctic Council, and contributions to UNESCO. Exploitation of foreign trade services aimed at strengthening the support of exports through the increase of free trade agreements, along with a more intensive stakeholder in the EEA, and close cooperation with the job also falls to this category. Total contributions to the Foreign Service and the foreign government increase by 123 million per year. Other major projects to be available next year are the preparation for Presidency in the Council of Ministers and continued interest care for the export of Britain from the EU. The EEA contract work will continue to be improved in accordance with the government's priorities by strengthening the position of the Directorate and the embassy of Brussels. Under the Foreign Business Party, only four million dollars fall to the Iceland Office. K. but foreign trade expenses fall under the Foreign Service and Foreign Management Board. Safety and defense contributions increase by 405.5 billion. K. when changing prices are overlooked 300 million. K. The contributions will be made to ensure that the accumulated maintenance needs of the defense workers who are becoming a dragdog on our ability to keep our commitments in the security and defence activities. Finally, additional contractual contributions are made to the multinational institutions, which are a special case of 582 billion. K. A respectable president. I now approach the 35 International Development Team, which is a new topic area in line with the government's emphasis on developing cooperation and further financial contributions to the subject that will be anticipated in the coming years. The total financial level of the topic range is 5.8 billion. at 5.6 billion. Most of the change is explained by three factors. First of all, the amount of donations declines by over 450 million. K. As a result, a larger proportion of expenditures included in public development cooperation are expected to fall to other topic areas. Second, a heavy decline in national income between the years, while the budget for the seminary was based on a certain percentage of national incomes and the third and final incomes of 300 million. K. cross-cutting in topic areas 4 Foreign matter during our political treatment of financial programmes. In contrast, the budget is rising by nearly 670 million. K. in accordance with the government's decision to promote growth in official development. However, the ratio of progress towards development is expected to be at 0.35% of the gross national income in 2022, in line with the government's policy of raising donations for development cooperation. There has been no change. Human rights, gender equality and sustainable use of natural resources, with emphasis on renewable energy sources, marine resources and land quality recovery will be in the foreground in line with the UN's global objective. Special attention will be given to projects where Iceland's expertise is most effective in fighting poverty. The newly formed cooperation fund for employment will play a key role and fund support is intended to cooperate with enterprises, which contribute to sectoral development and sustainable growth in poor developing countries. A respectable president. I have considered key points related to the topic of affairs that depend on me as a minister of foreign affairs. Finally, I would like to report that in the Ministry of State, work is beginning to follow up on increased emphasis on development issues published in the government financial policy for five years and a new presentation on the State Department's topic fields. This means that developing cooperation will be brought closer to the core of the foreign policy and the Office of the Ministry to reflect the focus of the government on international development teaming. Along with a new organization, the Ministry's name will be changed to the Department of State and Development, and this change will take effect for the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u216	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only in our interest custody and the Ministry to Bgreit. It says in the budget bill that there will be about 30 billion to be paid. K. of the general budget range to strengthen the Ministry in interest care because of British exits from the European Union. This is an enormous task, and I would like to focus on it. The most important market for marine products is Britain and has been in Britain for a long time. In 2017 about 61,000 tons of sea products and trades took place between Iceland and Britain that year. What's also interesting about the British market is that Britain is a kind of bridge to another market, and I would like to mention especially France. Some 21 billion dollars were exported to fresh seafood. in 2016. That's a huge amount of money. Now it is clear that this will be a significant factor when the British leave the European Union. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What has been the success of this service? Have the funds worked? I'm on a budget committee and you're trying to see where you can save money and where you might be spending on the subject, but in this case, I think it's clear that there are huge interests at stake. So I'd like to get it past a minister how it worked out, what the results of that interest operation were, and how the funds were successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of caring for our interests in EU exits, and this has been my priority since I took over. When I came up with a case, there were funds to open a post office in Strasbourg, but I thought that funds were better spent in the protection of Bgreit as well as with the EEA. I don't regret making that decision. If we talk about the results of the interest guard then in the next few days the bills that were not completed in spring are aimed at setting matters straight so that whether they go out without a contract or not the main interests are guaranteed. But then the next step is to go to the extended contract, where we have worked along with the British, and there is nothing to indicate but that we should be able to achieve good results in this. I may not be able to review all the things that have been done in this short answer, but the short story is that no matter how they go out, our main interests are meant to be quite loyal. Hv. However, a senator pointed out that if the British go out without a contract between Britain and France and actually other countries, it can be a disaster. But it's something we can't mean. We do not control how the European Union and the United Kingdom behave. We've tried to make a good point, stressing that it was very bad, and not to be allowed to have some business barriers in Europe. That, however, is something we cannot control. We do not direct our fine friends and allies, the European Union and the British.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u218	A respectable president. Earlier this month, the vice president of the United States, Mike Pence, attended Iceland. Not every day the Presidents or vice presidents of the United States make their way here. I think he's been making a big visit. What happened most on that visit might be considered news that, outside the Cape, he spoke openly, I would like to say, about the views of the Icelanders on the cooperation of the Chinese government under the motto Belti and Course, and could be understood by the vice president in a way that he expressed his joy that the Icelanders had refused to take part in that assignment, if properly understood. In fact, it was said in a case of the highest order. Minister and to some extent the highest case. Prime Minister that the vice president had not been completely accurate about what he was eating outside the Cape. The questions raised in this regard are the following, and the main questions may be: What is the policy of the government of Iceland regarding this initiative by the Chinese government? And then, what observations have been made on the project, including the cost of Iceland's participation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u219	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech in which he referred and gave a fine review of Pence's visit as well as both my declarations and the vice president's. That's right, like what's wrong. A senator pointed out that when it comes to Beli, it is something that has been viewed by us, but we have not agreed to take that assignment or to refuse it specifically. Our general policy, we can say, for China, is that we have emphasized that the contracts we have, which are numerous, will become active and that we use them. I've stressed that, for example. With regard to the vacation agreement, when I arrived at dinner, we could not really export much of our most important products. They could move all the way to us, but we couldn't move in with them. Fortunately, at Selephoss, I signed it with China's customs minister, and it didn't happen by itself, I can claim it at the moment. The senator and the Senate that much work was behind it, that we can now carry out fish farms, fish flour, and lighting, lamb, and sheep, and sheep, and of course, it's very important. We also work together in the field of geothermals and other things that we have wanted to learn on how to use it. Since then, we have been discussing this whole matter, including the rest of our lives. A few days ago, we discussed them with the Councils of the Northern Nations and the Baltic States in Citynes. The next step in future foreign service is, in effect, a policy towards each country. We have proposed, and we will introduce the matter to a foreign committee when it comes to it and will be considering similar factors. We have not yet been able to evaluate Belti's project, but all of it will be presented to the House of Congress and especially at that time. Foreign Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u220	Mr. President. Interestingly, the bill remains a temporary contribution due to the protection of Bgret, i.e. 30 million, like two recent years. Not long ago. A minister spoke of opportunities to travel by the British out of the European Union. Now they sound rather simplistic, as the British government report shows that the effects of an uncontracted exit could become extremely negative, even terrible, it had an economic and social impact in Britain as well as in Iceland. Although Iceland has done quite well, making an emergency agreement, which in some respects is narrated by Britain - they can change it - I would point out that already the fish importers have gone past Britain to get rid of trouble. Then a new deal creates higher opportunities for the Norwegians, e.g. on fresh water frozen fish They'll get a better-to-do income than they've got so far, so it could, like, threaten our contract. I'm asking if a minister still sees this tremendous opportunity and is concerned about it. I'd also like to ask him, because he spoke earlier about a list of individual states that he wanted to do business with, perhaps starting to focus more on cooperation with the European countries. We get a lot of our legislation from there. The European nations are on the lead when it comes to action against disaster and climate action, which many ministers spoke about in exactly the debate of policy debates. Would it not be easier to focus on increasing cooperation with Europe rather than on betting on a single lucky fellow worker, as a minister has at times kept the weather on the rise?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the speech, but I have to admit that I didn't quite understand it. First of all, I wasn't talking about a list of state I wanted to do business with. I told him that when we went to work for a future foreign service, one new thing was that before an ambassador receives mail, he gets to the point. A foreign press committee and a list of major projects will also have a good time to prepare in cooperation with local stakeholders. The next step we were going to take was that we had a better defined policy toward all the major countries we communicate with and were discussing especially China. Hv. A senator pointed out that there would be such bad consequences for us Icelanders if the British went out without a contract. This certainly is a threat. But if you do. A senator is referring to a review in the French Times who did not take into account the work we have worked and the agreements available. In case of a moment. A senator helps to get them through the council, not to worry. Regarding this opportunity, it's not just me who's said it. Both president and vice president of a party that is even greater than the EU category, than the Conspiracy, spoke of them both in interviews and here in Congress. The possibility is obvious in terms of e.g. The EEA market we're dealing with is very much. But it is obvious that if we are going to expand our export value, we need to do more markets than they do, and then we don't have a full toll access at sea. Clearly, then, if we sit down with the British, we have opportunities to do so. When the world's fifth largest economy is going to focus on a global vacation trade, the opportunities will increase for us and others, so that they are reviewed over here once again. But on the other hand, our threat is ours. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should also see that two are negotiating. [[The president calls.]] It is not only Britain but also the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u222	Mr. President. I see no reason to be in some rivalry about who's the greatest European Party, but I can confirm that the Conspiracy wants to go all the way into the European Union, and he wants to go all the way, so I think we're quite equal in this regard. I don't think it's convincing that the Minister's talk about opportunities, but I'm wondering if it's not true that the Norwegians -- we're certainly taking down customs of various products now to Britain until the British decide otherwise - get better terms than they've ever had in the seafaring waters that could, of course, threaten our competitive position. I'd so much like to finally, because I had a place to talk about. This morning the prime minister expressed my dissatisfaction as a result of a shrinking project for development. It is also presented at the highest. Prime Minister. I feel this vesture in a nation that accepted development itself well into the 1970's, one of the richest people in the world. While Sweden makes 1.1% of national product, Norwegians 1.0, Denmark 0.8 and Finnar 0.55, we call it in the budgetary bill, when only hard work is made on the valley, that there has been room to take 300 million starving children who have no chance and move into construction at the Cheflavour airport, which may be necessary. And then shall men have manifold persons, to put on other treasures, rather than to take from these blessed people. I would point out that the government's advisers are so concerned about climate operations and the disaster, that they will first and harden the people who are being taken from money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u223	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't realize what's wrong. A senator is referring to the Norwegians, and I think he needs to explain his point in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u224	There was a memo from the Ministry about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u225	The contracts we've been making with the British now available at the council assume that we'll have a private market access from what we've made up to this point, although they're going out without a contract. We're in a hurry. Three key factors were identified when it came to the protection of our interest in Bgret. That was the right of the citizens. They're true, including The rights of students. There were flights. We were long before they were taken care of. And as is the case with trades. So I don't know where. A senator is saying those words and has just never heard them. Then, of course, making contributions to evolution is something we can always do better. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen are considering the extent and extent of the effort they have already made in the era of the present government. I'm at least in the middle of a percentage of them, that we have an equal rise in any unique subject field. But this can always be done better without any doubt. Here, in general, a hall called after all sorts of money, most of it, I can't quickly remember any lawsuits in which men don't call for more money, and I certainly can't remember the language that the United States won't want to add. It would be interesting to see, though, if there are ways to shift a group of cases into development. Of course, that would be just the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u226	Mr. President. We'll discuss a financial bill and the part on the foreign matter. I have to admit that I'm sorry, but I feel like I'm repeating myself a bit often and regularly when we discuss foreign affairs on financial or financial matters. It must be bad for both the highest. Minister and myself. But let it lie in between things. For one thing, I generally believe that in the budget bill there is not enough increase in foreign affairs. Both in financial planning and in this bill, there are fine emphasises, especially on support of institutions, projects and events that contribute to increasing human rights, equality, international rights, and humanity on a global scale. This certainly is a very noble goal, though it is not clear how much money should be handled exactly on this point, but it goes well with our United Nations Human Rights Council and clearly wishes in the Ministry and in the Supreme Court. Minister to follow that session. I would also like to see more money for premeditation in one of the most important human rights institutions we are involved in, which is the European Parliament and the European Parliament, and that the figure 41.5 million for preparing for the prehumanity, which is distributed in the preparation and other projects, could be raised. I'd like to discuss what I discussed with you a year ago, which is a continuation of a substantial increase in money and a significant proportion increase in Iceland's direct contribution within NATO to ensure Iceland's defenses - in security and protection. This is over half a billion extra money in cooperation with security and protection issues from the last budget. That's a lot when the total increase in foreign affairs by 2020 is 930 million. As a result, more than half of the total increase in security and protection activities are involved. We have debated whether there is a natural need for maintenance in military operations at the Cheflavour Airport or the denatural change. I myself believe that there is a change of nature, and it needs to be discussed, and I have also wanted it many times and discussed it here. I want to hear what a foreign minister has to say if we are going to continue on this path. In addition, I have to say that it is particularly sad to see that before 2020, contributions to global development work fall by 387.5 million, by 6.6%, and one explanation is a reduction due to estimated gross incomes. [[The president calls.]] The minister must better explain this reduction and change the composition of the total budget for global development cooperation. Then I have to say, I'm going to come to the second speech, about this sad move for 300 million. K. I just don't think that it's okay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u227	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u228	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Regarding the increase in security and protection, it is in line with national security policy that includes ensuring that the country has its own defences, services, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces in security and defenses and to meet the international commitments of Iceland. Since the removal of the defense team in 2006, the Icelandic government has taken responsibility for the management of the air defense system and other defenses of the European Atlantic Community and is responsible for the need for maintenance and restoration of manpower and equipment, while at the same time, the safe operation of defence-related tasks. Therefore, the Icelandic government is responsible for ensuring the necessary maintenance. A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator of the importance of our upholding human rights in our foreign policy, and we certainly have. I don't think there's any other time where you can find examples that were so obvious. Of course, it's our highest level in the Council of Human Rights. I'm very proud of the way we've been going out there, both of us have been in the discussion with the Philippines, and if not for the initiative of our Icelanders, for example. Saudi Arabia's affairs were never addressed in a way that has been done in the Human Rights Council. We put increased emphasis on this in other areas, including in the development team, and I think it's extremely important. Then it is important that we do well to carry out our assigned tasks. A senator referred to a very important issue, the Council of Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u229	Thank you very much. Ministers for the opposition and agree with him when he speaks of our fine results and how we use our place in the United Nations Human Rights Council. They are exemplary, and they have been adopted internationally. I'm proud of our conduct there myself. I'd also like to highlight the emphasis I welcome in the budget bill when it comes to the foreign affairs that are continuing to focus on active participation in international cooperation, premedition in the North Pole, increase in EEA Building Fund, and supply to UNESCO. All of this is fine and good emphasis, along with a high focus on human rights, equality and sustainable development. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State later opposed my policy of intensive interest in the EEA and close cooperation with the job. It is claimed to increase interest protection in Brussels and to ensure that Iceland's share is active in developing the EEA legislation. That's fine. This has been said since 1994, I think Halldór Ásgrímsson mentioned it a few months after we agreed to be members of the EEA Convention. I think it's a normal continuation of the conversation we had at the council on the energy package and in relation to the EEA report that will soon come from the Ministry of the Convention. The budget is not clear on how to expand this interests. What are we talking about? How many agents are we going to expand and in what area of the EEA deal are we going to focus on and apply? I think this was of utmost importance to our interests because we have little foreign service and maybe less money to play than other nations and therefore, when it comes to this, we must be clear-lines. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u230	A respectable president. Thank you. Similarly, a senator for calling attention to this matter. But I still think it was the 1994 minister of foreign affairs that it was Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, which is secondary. [[Up front.]] When I came to the matter, one of my first jobs was to start a job and suggest that I sharpen my interests. It was published a report entitled 'True for the Benefits of Our Work, and then Björn Bjarnason's son and his group will soon arrive. To make a long story short, we had the arrangement for a long time that represented all the professionals in Brussels. When applied for involvement in the European Union, it was taken down but has been restored. Today, representatives from the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Financial Affairs, two representatives from the Ministry of Professional and Development, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice in Brussels. It has been decided to send a representative of the Department of Health and Environmental and Resources Department and to the Department of Transport and Social Affairs to consider the possibility of sending their representatives to Brussels. It's been going on for quite a while. Then there are other factors. We've been with the EEA database, which is an important tool, and certainly the council has been more active in this than before, and it's also an older story that I can't cross over in seconds. This is a matter that we need to stress even more. One thing is money, and another thing is work. It is important that we be stressed that these matters are handled especially at an early stage when we can have the most impact. It is also important that the stakeholders, the government, and the council be aware of what matters must be considered. [[The president calls.]] I have personally called attention to matters not only to the European Union but also to other matters, which we cannot agree with unless it is perfectly clear how they lie. But I'm sorry, Mr President, I don't have time to review it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u231	Mr. President. Most of what is presented in this category is a continuation from previous years, except, of course, the breakdown of temporary tasks and similar tasks. But there are four things I would like to curious about, because they are a little out of place. The first thing to do is to build up the EEA, where our donations should increase by 582 billion. K. True, there is a mistake on page 18. 177 on this, but I think it's the right number. I would like to understand more about the marked rise to the building fund. Was there any change in the calculus that Iceland has enjoyed for a very long time, or is there something else behind it? It may be right for me to say that I don't regret the money in the fund, it's a very good fund that's done a lot of results. The second point is that our offer to UNESCO is an excellent project, but I think that the explanation is ratherlittles the cost and the continued costs of the next few years if it succeeds. The third point is the matter of defense. There is a rather large increase in the process that is well explained, but there is still no explanation for how much contribution is made to the Iceland of NATO and whether the funds cover the new defence - related workers. Now it is clear that we are under pressure to increase our efforts in defense, and it is good to know who is paying for that effort. Of course, it will have some control over the will of the council to support such a drumming. Then at the end, I want to ask questions about the many opportunities as high as possible. A minister has talked about the matter of Baltrexit and what. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson asked about earlier. I'd like to know that we're reducing our interest care now, which may be normal, whether our opportunities have really improved. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm particularly thinking that in our new future contract with the British, it's not a service deal, but it's an important part of business with the British.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u232	A respectable president. I'll start with the wrong end. Hv. A senator can get the numbers, but it is a little difficult to look them all up in a short period of time. But there is no new agreement with the British. The future agreement remains, so when you talk about whether an opportunity has increased, it will become evident. This is what we're doing now because the British must not make such a future deal while they're in the European Union, the British don't have business freedoms like us. They're part of a business chef, and that's what she makes up for. That is one reason why they were unhappy to be in the European Union, they did not have business freedom. The European Union has been very anxious not to allow them to negotiate until they are out. It would have been more comfortable if it had been possible to begin with until the European Union's decision could not have done so. I can get information to why. A senator on the construction fund and any of those factors. And for the UNESCO, the total cost is exactly 42 million now, and then the total cost will be much higher if we reach it. I think I'll remember correctly that if we get inside, there's a figure of 422 million. K. in the UNESCO whole thing. In regard to the EEA building fund, the specific amount is negotiated. However, from years to years after work, the situation becomes more difficult. The general rule is, if I remember correctly, that it starts out pretty low, goes up in the middle and then goes down. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that does not always cover expenses. That depends on the work each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u233	Mr. President. Thank you for the answer to the building fund. Regarding the other questions, it was a little hairy. As for UNESCO, I know the amount of money, but I need to understand a little bit about the money going on like this and then how much it'll cost in the next year if we can get this seat. With the British, it's wrong at the highest. The minister, of course, that if it were the case that the European Union was forbidden to forbid the British to negotiate business, it would certainly not be an option to create this temporary agreement made and to take effect unless it has to.... [[Up front.]] Yeah, this isn't working. I don't even know how to ask this question. It's such a ridiculous answer to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u234	I think this is a ridiculous question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u235	But that's what we're talking about, isn't it? He's supposed to take effect at the point when the British walk out. For some reason, it does not fall under the conditions set by the European Union. Why were we unable to make the same service transaction? Was it not an opportunity to do so? I don't understand. There's good reason to commend for what's been done, but I'm asking. Where's the rest, for example. in the service business?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u236	A respectable president. I don't know how to explain this any different than it is. We cannot negotiate a business agreement or negotiate a future deal with the British until they are out of the EU. It's just that way. Everything we've done is not only in cooperation with the British but also with the EFTA and the European Union in general. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator has to accept the fact that we can't make a deal, a future agreement with the British until they come out of the European Union. However, we were able to take these measures because they are likely to go out without a contract. Of course, if they had been allowed to negotiate their future business right away, we would have been able to do so, but we took care of these three major factors. We have also made arrangements that the European Union has made certain measures related to the EEA and we are taking them into our legislation. But here's the deal. A respectable president. For UNESCO, the total cost due to the supply and session of the UNESCO Commission is estimated to be 422 billion. K. At the cost of a single campaign campaign manager at the State Department and personnel office office in Paris for 2◯3 years during the period 2019-2021 at the election crisis, at the cost of one rank...... a worker in Paris and up to four standing positions in the council, of which two of the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Education and Culture are expected for four years during the period of the administration, in the year 2021How-2025. This adds up the cost of making funds, travel expenses, and renting in an office building. Costs were divided in the following way over time: 14.5 billion. K. In the current year, 42 million. K. During the 2020/2021 period, 81 million. K. During a session in the manager's office of 2022◯2025. I hope this answers questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u237	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of State for his discussion. V.E.G. Ministers have handled a number of issues, such as defense cooperation, national security and development cooperation, Baltrexit etc., where I was going to evict, but I'd like to ask more questions about our leadership in the North Pole, except for what has been presented, why. paritaprevir That was in connection with the other thing was the Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir. I think the highest. When we took up earlier this year, a minister put it quite well that our role in the Arctic Council has probably rarely or never been more urgent, but right now, with regard to the affairs of the North Sea, and I agree with them. Minister. Now we're posting an extra tax form of 77 million. Q, which will appear in the bill article and a total of 142 million next year, and it is likely this time of 2018●2021, about 300 million, not money to be seriously concerned about the entire context. On the other hand, I want to ask the highest. The Minister of Foreign Ministers like this at the beginning of the Chairman's Programme, except for the attention and impact we receive, our voice on the international and all, how we will most effectively use this important opportunity with our management.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u238	Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator asks a basic question, how can we benefit from being prefected? We focused on the oceans, climates, and green solutions to energy production and people in the northern regions and updating communities and strengthening the Arctic Council, which I believe is important. All of this is really under the big idea that we want this to continue as a peaceful region, and we also want to see sustainability, not only environmentally but also economic and social as well. In fact, it is our greatest project now, for the Arctic has grown more emphasis on adding our weights so that we can do so and that there will be international laws in our immediate and distant future. What I hope, however, is that it will strengthen, e.g. The institutions north of Akureyri who are employed under the North Pole's hat and that we increase our knowledge and awareness of this important area. It is very important that, for example, be taken into account. A world of Congress is conscious of the changes ahead. I think it is more clear to consider, though there is only one factor, regarding the shipping route, that as it shrinks by 40% between Asia and Europe, it has profound changes. Fearful, indeed. One thing we need to look for is deliverance and search. We saw, for example. In Norway some time ago, it could not be remembered that there was a bad outcome, for although the route of passage has not been opened, as expected, traffic is immensely, much more than anyone would expect, but there are opportunities too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u239	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State responding. It is good that we are in position and have the opportunity to highlight our issues and views in the prehumanity and prehumanity programme. As I put it earlier, there's no experience, but it's always up to us that we're talking about using money, and when it's no longer time and more experience, you want to dig for the real projects. Where do we go? Where do you see a real project to promote these sustainable issues? Of course, there are so many northern issues that could prevent us from maintaining our views in this respect regarding the studies of the sea and the warming and all, the climate. V.E.G. In the talk, a minister did well - thought - out, but he is doing some work at the highest level. A minister could come in the second time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u240	Hv. A senator points to that question and asks: " What are we talking about when it comes to it? That may not sound too accurate, but the big thing is to draw attention. That's what I've been doing since the day I took over, and I think that about 170 double-sided meetings I've always taken up this case because I felt like I did. that the countries that we compare most with and that our major allies are not very aware of what was happening there. It is one thing that these countries have maintained international law and emphasized that it is respected, as well as that we build our relationships on those values, but only that they are aware of the importance of the area and how important it is that it is respected, since it is not necessarily so important. We take it as our own, but we're not. However, although this matter has to do with foreign affairs, it also turns to society, that we focus on it, and much more than in the foreign affairs - I'm here referring to environmental, educational, cultural - that, in this area, we are making a lot of changes, and we need to consider it in all our jobs. Then, in my mind, we need to consider the major national security issues that are environmental. With increased traffic, there is an increased risk of e.g. environmental accidents, including accidents Because of passengers and things like that, and we have to look for survival and search. I can't see any other region in this large region, the North Atlantic, that can cover that than North East Island. [[The president calls.]] Here we need to have as fast hands as possible because this is coming, is actually here as we Iceland's people have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u241	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for his history. I'm glad he realizes that restoration is a Europeanist class and thanks to him for putting us first in this regard. Regarding the opportunity in Bfenit, where the minister mentioned that our spokesmen had also declared that there were great opportunities in Bgret, I will not object to the supreme. Ministers that some comment may have fallen into that state. But at least I can. To assure him that people have already realized that it was not so and that in this sense they have turned away from their error, since opportunities are not at all. At a meeting at the company of professionals on September 4 of this year. Commenting on economic issues, the chief economist of the Sensian Bank, Þórarinn G. Pétursson, spoke there. reports that economic growth has deteriorated recently and that there is a significant risk of over-evaluation in Iceland's economic interest ratings. He specifically stated that GDP would be reduced by half a percent over the years of 2019,2021, due to Borgit. There's no chance, at least. for the Icelandic economy, in effect. So I now ask something: At the end of this chapter on foreign matters in the bill, we will discuss contracting contributions on a multi-national basis and will conclude the discussion on these remarkable words: [[The president calls.]] No policy has been established before the group, and thus no goals or measures have been set for it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the bottom end of the chapter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u242	A respectable president. I think it's important that we understand what's going on when people talk about the potential danger when it comes to Bgret about the global economy, i.e. if the result of this finding is that the result of a business inhibition is dependent on the use of Baltrexone. Everyone will suffer badly, including Us. Just as China and the U.S. Custom War brings reproach on everyone, including Icelanders, even though there is no direct interest in it. Now we are seeing around the world, and there is good reason to worry about this, a greater tendency to preserve than has been. We Icelanders are going to get hurt. This will mean less economic growth. If the European Union and the British agree on a business agreement and do not allow business barriers to occur after Baltrexone, this will not adversely affect the economy. It's gonna take two people, and I'm not going to try to solve that problem. But, hey. Councilmen have to put these things right. I've been telling about the first day that it's very bad news if we got caught up in business when the British walked out of the European Union. It doesn't just turn to customs. It also focuses on the technical business barriers, since customs are not as important as they used to be or as much part of it as they once were. Technical business restrictions have become much bigger. In view of our goals and actions, we are better off in a new environment when it comes to public finances. We are acting in every area, including the Ministry of State for a new job. But Rome was not built in a day, and we say things just as they are. If we are not beyond our experience, we are not scraping it off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u243	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answer. Yes, with regard to goals, these are only 1.9 billion; there may be no need to set goals for that purpose first. What I also wanted to talk about was at the top. Secretary of state is what's being discussed on foreign transactions, normal. They're talking about an Iceland lab and new policy for an Iceland lab. It says in the report, with the permission of the president: The European Commission has now completed its proposal to provide export and market tips for a meeting planned for 9 September knock. The time has passed, so it is likely that they have been submitted. This is 842 million as a provision for marketing. How important it is, then, that money be taken into account in a very progressive way! I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would be able to instruct us on the emphasis there. Also, I would like to ask specific questions about the major projects of 2020. It rightly puts it into practice to ensure that Iceland's more active involvement in developing EEA legislation, etc. Then there is the idea of working on vacation contracts. I notice that when dealing with the free trade agreements, it's specifically stated that it should be done in consultation with stakeholders, read expected professional life, I'll give it to myself. But when we talk about the more active involvement in Iceland in developing EEA legislation, there is no mention of stakeholders or professional life. I wondered, since the EEA Convention is the biggest and most important contract, why this distinction is made between, whether there's any particular thought behind it or whether it's some sort of mistake or thoughtlessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u244	A respectable president. First, just then. A senator continued to talk about the goals and actions of international institutions. In fact, these contributions are such as social fees. It falls, for example. I don't know if we can make it more, but at least it lies that way. In Iceland, we changed the law on the Iceland Institute to make it a more effective community cooperation site between industry and the public. My job was very short. I think it's worth one Mass to review the suggestions now, like why. A senator pointed to this, but I cannot discuss it in a brief talk. But I think it is very important that the council be aware of the work that has been done there, which has been in very close cooperation between industry and the Ministry and Advisor. With regard to the free shops and the EEA, there's some misunderstanding. A senator, for it is absolutely certain that all proposed suggestions in the interest care department take into account the hard work of stakeholders in this regard. In fact, looking at foreign services for the future in this report has become like a red thread in the report to work closely with stakeholders, and it was called especially for stakeholders. And they were asked for their perspective on their whole foreign service, and, of course, the EEA deal is an enormous factor in this. But then we are happy to say that when it comes to the vacation agreements, we have succeeded. EFTA has finished negotiations with Indonesia and Mercir America. We've been successful in the free trade deal with China, and now we've begun an economic agreement with both the United States and Japan. In all these matters, stakeholders do and do nothing more than continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u245	A respectable president. We're discussing the budget bill, and thank you very much. Secretary of state for his contribution in that matter. But I would like to ask him about the proceedings, the stall is running out. We see an enormous increase in the income of the state's funds, and it's up to 1,000 billion. I see that the bid is also expanding into the foreign service, there are 9.3 billion 2018, so it's 11.2 and it's going to 12.5 billion, and I'm asking if there are no economic requirements in there to try to reduce this expansion, especially in view of the fact that we have a well-being health system and we need to prioritize the money. We've talked a little bit about Baltrexit and whether it's impossible to negotiate with the British until they're out of the EU prison they're in. I'd like to ask if there's any chance that after they escape from the EU community and other countries could follow, if there is any information about it or plans. I wouldn't be surprised because I'm sure when the Brits go out and the others see how good they're doing later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u246	Thank you. A senator for the deposit. We must always take special note of how we use the money of the government. True, I find it possible when it comes to the Ministry of State that everything is equal, it is well defined. We are, for example. putting money in things that won't go on forever, to form the lead in the North Pole, which I think we'll agree on being our best interests. Similarly, as we reach out for an assignment, whether it is the Council of Europe or UNESCO, it is specifically defined. A lot of this, e.g. 360 million available due to changes in salary and prices is something beyond our control. But we've been working on the economy ever since I took over. We looked into it and mentioned it, and we tried to approach it as if we were building a foreign service today. That's why we like it, for example. The embassy in Vienna, we don't have to have two-sided embassys there, Austria doesn't have a two-sided embassy here, and that's not one of our most important business or cooperation countries, but we still hold the NTSB, just to say one small example. Then there are some offers and other items, as well as when it comes to the change in the Icelandic lab, it aims to make better use of the money than it has been done. Each of us agrees that we need to maintain our own interests. If we are not careful about what we have done with Baltrexit, the United States will face a very bad situation, just a clear example. The same is true of free trade agreements and such. Then they ask why. Senator whether to escape from the European Union. If I'm going to discuss the EU case, I'll need more than two minutes, that's in the mood, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u247	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answers. Yeah, there's a strategy, and, as I say, we need to make some adjustments in this operation. But there's something else I've noticed lately. It's kind of hard to say about the highest. Minister, but he's somehow the hottest lady at the dance right now in those words because it seems that both China, America, and even Russia want to dance with him and offer him golden and green forests. They've got Belti and a track, the Chinese, and the Americans want to buy Greenland and ask if they don't want to buy Iceland too. Then, of course, Russia. I'd like to ask him about it because we're still in this crazy business with the Russians. Isn't it time, now that everybody wants to go back to Iceland and do everything for us, to clear that dam? [[Up front.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u248	Just get a Pútín, too?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u249	Yeah, why not? Is he worse than the Chinese or Trump in the United States? I don't see it. They're all superpowers and they seem to have some huge love in Iceland right now and I think we should take advantage of it, totally because we want to do business with all these countries. Why should we take one thing out of our minds and say, " Let's do business with China, but we don't want to do business with Russia because Pútín is there? ' So can we not just say, " We don't want to do business with the Americans because Trump is there? ' I'm sorry, I don't see much difference there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u250	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's query is just digesting it as a matter of course. A senator said. I've been called a lot of things, a respectable president, over the years but never a lady, let alone a beautiful lady. I'm just taking this into the weekend and I choose to talk about it no more and I don't know how to take it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But as long as everyone is offering us gold and green forests, we have emphasized the need to improve our communication with nations, and it does not come naturally to receive these attentions or visits. It doesn't happen by itself. But at the same time, our importance is to increase because of our location, including ours. ... aboutNorth Poles. It is not just an opportunity; it includes threats, and we need to take care to get to the ground and think carefully about how we work at it. We haven't put any business pressure on the Russians, they've put some sort of business pressure on us. We shared in it because they broke international law. Here I refer to the inside of the Monsters, which is a very serious case and the conflict has killed 10,000 people. All nations benefit from maintaining international law but no more than small nations, and we must always stand by for action to protest the violation of international law. On the other hand, we have worked very hard to expand our business with Russia. It's been going along. They've grown a lot over the past few years, and there's been a lot of business committees and they've started a Icelandic-Russian business council and now we've seen big contracts that have been made of our high-tech companies, so I'm starting Marel, Skagga 3X and other such companies. That, of course, is part of our interests. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator kind of needs to ask Pútín, I already did it myself, if he won't risk our business pressure because we don't control their business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u251	V.E.G. President. There are three aspects of the matter that all or some part of the environment and resource minister. The most important environmental activity is the 17th environmental level. This is part of Iceland's National Research Programme, which is part of the 6 Ministry as well as the work of Organizational Fund on topic Level 8. The currently discussed budgeted budget has a total budget for the 17th Environment, estimated at 20.5 billion dollars. and up by 1 billion. has a permanent budget 2020. This corresponds to an absolute increase of about 5.5%. Taking into account the impact of overall pay and prices changes estimated to be 400 billion. K. the increase of less than 1.5 billion, i.e. 7.6%. Substitution of temporary contributions to the topic field is expected to be about 241 billion. K. Roads there increase the decline of a temporary contribution to the irrigation sector in the treatment of CEE in connection with the protection of the water. There will be measures to reduce expenses in the topic field by 117 million. K. A total of 320 million expenses. K. which is the most important factor in changing special populations, additional contributions to the Workout Fund and Recycling as a result of changes in the management, return and processing fees from the previous year. V.E.G. President. The budget range within the topic field is expected to increase by nearly 1.1 billion. and is therefore given primarily in new and increasing climate projects, intensification of natural protection areas, for increased land protection, and for projects related to the induction of the cycle economy. This focus reflects the challenges we face in climate, nature protection, and waste. That'll be 455 billion. K. increase to climate-related matters. There are about 200 million for carbon binding projects, more than 200 million for specific measures to reduce emissions and increase contributions to climate and some 60 million for climate - related projects. At the same time, there'll be 525 billion. K. increase to nature protection, with a peak of 205 billion. K. for building wood and 270 billion. K. to increase the protection of the country. Furthermore, about 100 million are expected. K. in the new up-to-date contribution, action is subject to the implementation of action on the basis of the recycling system. V.E.G. President. As before, the focus within the topic field is the same, i.e. Climate, protection, waste issues as well as increased efficiency in the administrative sector will be emphasized. In climate efforts, the aim of meeting the Paris Convention and the government's goals on noncarbonization will continue in the year 2040. The main measures involved include the implementation of a revised climate management programme this year, which will introduce new measures on the government to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, to reduce emissions of wastes, to decrease emissions from the land, and to increase carbon binding. In the year 2040, a road guide on the noncarbonization of Iceland will be provided to strengthen the freshly established climate Fund to promote more research and innovation in climate. In recent years, increased emphasis on nature protection has been placed, particularly on the increased number of tourists. A national structure strategy for the protection of nature and cultural memory, so called an internal program, plays a key role there. I'd like to mean that we managed to turn the defence into an offensive in these cases. Among the main actions here are that there will continue to be a special effort in terms of peace and the establishment of a central national park. Periodic assessments of the state of the defined destinations within natural protection areas must be implemented as a basis for funding building and further implementation of land protection, including ... ona perfect basis. Waste and treatment of waste, which are often referred to as the recycling economy, will be an increasingly important factor in climate and nature protection, and there will be great challenges ahead of us in these areas. The aim of the implementation of the cycle economy is to reduce waste, increase recycling and recycling, and remain valuables as long as possible. This assignment has been given first in the year to come, and I rejoice that this year is the first time I have been giving money to do so. In terms of increased effectiveness of the administrative organisation, there have been significant advances in the process, including the introduction of various forms of registration rather than the workauthorities and the implementation of the Environmental and Resource Commission to meet the requirements for case management and the duration of the lawsuit. V.E.G. President. There are a number of environmental issues to be taken care of, and it is therefore urgent that the pack of painters receive the funds needed to work on our responsibilities. The climate is all very important, and it is urgent that we get close to them firmly so that we can reverse bad developments. It's called. No further funding has been given to environmentals since the time came. We have this budget for taking a major step in coping with challenges ahead, both in climate and in nature protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u252	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his review of his tribe of litigation, environment. I'm gonna ask him a few questions. First, about the carbon money. The budget expects carbon pay to rise by 10%. Gas and oil increase it and go directly to the prices and index, thus increasing the prices of the nation's loans. After this increase, the income of the state's budget of the carbon account becomes 6.4 billion. Has the highest. A minister has been asked to examine the costs of the loans of this country because of the rise in indexes due to the stresses of carbon costs and thus increases in the prices of national housing? Has it been checked? At meetings with a financial committee, representatives of the Environment Ministry confirmed that the success of this fee could not be confirmed. I'm not gonna minimize the climate problem, but there seems to be a typical few. New taxation is put in a nice costume, and a beautiful purpose has allowed it to justify an increase in taxation. That's why I also ask, "Do you think it's the highest part?" Minister of the United States, if it is not known what it will provide in terms of the stated purpose of the price, you see the environmentally, environmentally, advising such taxes on car owners, deforestation, farmers, and other citizens? But we are well aware, Mr. President, of what he returns in the box of state, 6.4 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u253	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and input. In general, the rule is that prices affect demand. A carbon charge is simply to send out a message to the economy that carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere costs money. The next thing we realize is that the price has an impact on encouraging people and businesses to reduce emissions. That's basic. Economics are generally in favor of economic measures such as the stress of carbon costs to achieve environmental success because it sends a message to the economy that emissions are at an advantage but individuals and companies will then have the opportunity to respond in the most practical way. It is a good and natural question, however, to want to know the exact impact of the carbon account and to get some number on it, that's what I'll totally agree with. We in the Ministry have requested a scientific opinion about this in connection with an update on the climate management programme, and I assume that the results will soon be introduced. The calculations I've seen indicate that the price would have an effect on home use of 1,752 percent less fuel and mollusk due to current carbon charge, based on the lack of charge. However, it is harder to assess the likely impact of the price on an enterprise. This does not have enough information and needs to be considered separately. But as I say, I'm expecting we'll be able to present an assessment of this very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u254	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I'm going to have a similar look in my second lines. Now I'm going to talk about other taxes that apply to and about carbon pay, but not entirely. This is where I'm talking about the planned price tax to be broken in the bill for changes in environmental and resource taxes, No. 129/2009. The fact is, the state has no financial cost, and because of this new tax, there is no intention to find that the tax should make other methods more efficient, namely, incineration or recycling. Privates do not have to be on guard, so only government agencies are taxing public services that are not available to their citizens and the government has not yet arrived. At the same time, it is strange to put on a tax on the price. This isn't going to work out, Mr. President. So I can repeat a similar question about the tax and the carbon tax. Ideas that have not seen the day show that a planned tax is intended to make the use of waste possible, e.g. by building a perfect dump? Are there plans to support the project to build a perfect recycling or classification center here by allowing the tax to run into that business and not just into state funds? Or should the tax go to subsidize the export of wastes to foreign land? My questions are about to identify the origin of the so - called environmental taxes of the government, whether there is a real step toward better contact with nature, and thereby the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Or is this, as I've gone over here and there's evidence, just another taxation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u255	Madam President. For the question of the why. First, I would like to mention that this route has taken place in many of our neighboring countries and has given us a measure of relief. This is a widely accepted way of relieving the elderly. We can mention such countries as Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Austria, Switzerland, Spain, and Italy. It might be closer that I'd list the kingdoms that didn't do this, I'd be quicker to do it. In other words, this is a well - established way of reducing the number of victims. And why is this important? Yes, it is important because in waste management we do not want to grow. This results in the largest greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore it is important to reduce the number of emissions. When the tax is laid on the market, other means, whether incineration, recycling, or recycling, become more competitive. It is being made up of incentives that will lead to greater success and less success. And don't forget that 7% of Iceland's commitments, the direct commitments to the Paris Meeting, are of wastes, and, by far, of the price. So this is a crucial procedure to deal with the climate. I'm stuck in that this is something we should be able to do on a much greater scale, i.e. setting up green taxes, for they are also being paid as well. The family may chafe. A senator completely driven to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u256	Madam President. Much is discussed and written on environmental and climate issues, as it is not surprising. We regularly watch in the media how forest fires rage in the rainforests of the Amazon region and north. Similarly, storms rage with droughts that destroy both vegetation and affect people, even killing them. This has to do with the public. The common people, especially the young, worldwide who require physical activity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to a greater extent than we talk about. You see, we have reached the edge, and there is no time to waste. During this month, the United Nations summit in New York will be on the issue of climate change, and it is important that Iceland's voice becomes firm, decisive, and that we speak clearly and that we sense that the international community is facing an emergency. Our voice can be strong with the Norwegian nations and others. This is an important meeting, for the nations of the world today must gather for a faster recession in greenhouse gas emissions, which they signed in ancient Paris. We have to do it faster than we promised. To date, Iceland has only presented the goals of 29% reduction by 2030 in cooperation with the European Union. It does not represent high ambitions and will not provide enough for Iceland to achieve a non-carbon shareage in the year 2040. So I ask the minister: Is the government going to introduce in New York plans for a much greater recession than has so far been introduced? Or what's going to be the highest. A minister in this serious situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u257	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator very much for his input, and I share it completely with what. A senator that this is the greatest challenge we face. I'm glad to hear that. A senator echoes the voice of the majority of people, both in this council and in the community, that drastic action is needed here. This has been countered and has taken many measures even now by the government. For example, when it comes to electric cars and inquisitors, I can give an example of the added force to building up wood. Today's news reports show that environmentally desirable cars are 3 billion years old. We are in second place for importing new environmental-friendly cars in the world after Norway with a 20% share and this could be counted for a long time. Action in terms of recovery of wetlands, hydrocarbons, and forestry, as well as many other measures. That's not true. A senator says that only by the European Union did Iceland reveal the objective of 29%, but it was made clear when our share of agreement with the European Union, which is certainly a 29% recession, is that we plan to reach 40% in 2030, as is the total European Union and then natural, as well as that of the European Union. A senator knows a non-carbon fraction of 2040.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u258	Madam President. It makes your heart rejoice. A minister is optimistic, and we are far beyond that. These are thought - provoking and thought - provoking matters that we are facing, and maybe we should start at home, as I have mentioned before. We're not doing very well. It was stated in a petition to the minister of the council that we have, for example, a state of affairs. not overlooking how we came to be or how the environment of rural society is conducted in Iceland, although there are improvements, I understand. Another thing I'd like to mention is these coincidences, which are the highest. A minister entered, which I believe is very important. We need action. I'm calling electricalization denied. There's no port in Iceland that's intense, from what I hear, and that's where we have to make some changes. That takes a lot of money, but much is involved. For example, there are over 100 people, maybe 110, cruise ships to Isafjörður every year, and at the stop they fuel more than 900 tons of oil. It is little, and the environmental impacts are not limited. We can imagine the effect this has on other areas where cruise vessels are significantly higher. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it not important for us to limit ourselves to the rejection of electrical power? I mentioned Ísafjörður. With the electricalization of the harbors, energy can be sold for about 53 million. K. This isn't a job that fell apart, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u259	V.E.G. President. It is most fitting to discuss indiscriminately, as it were, on a broad foundation. There's a senator coming in. I mentioned earlier things about electric cars. I'd also like to mention that we're expecting further suggestions for the year or early in a new year, which are taking place on road events and in wintertime, and I believe that it will be very important to get in to use them also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When it comes to rejection, the surveys made have suggested that the best way to start is by paying the road to energy exchange when it comes to low power. The high pen is an enormously expensive one, and I think that we need to sit down specifically with our communities and see how we can deal with that situation in particular. However, it also needs to be aware of the extent to which these actions cause a contraction of emissions, while using the funds somewhere else, because it is so expensive. I'd also like to mention in this context the Regulation that I published in an introduction on a confidentiality problem, and it's about almost banning black oil in Iceland's land weekend, and we're working on comments. This will not necessarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but will be very important to cope with waste pollution, which comes primarily from black oil burning ships. And then I want to point them out. There's a senator who has new favors that are being proclaimed in a income video.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u260	Madam President. The nation's environmental awareness has increased dramatically in recent years, but by means of education and targeted measures, it is necessary to further reduce waste emissions and encourage innovation and use of major technologies when it comes to recycling and pooling of waste with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Maybe I'd like to take it a little further. Minister of the metropolitan debate, the use of dump gas. In Akureyri, it has been used for some years, enough for about 600 cars, and three buses in Akureyri are driving in the Met today. They're making use of it. Now being built in Eelfnsi, I'm told, a gas station that can drive as many as 3,500 cars. Now the expansion of the cycle economy is one of the main objectives, or main focus, for 2020. Does the Minister have information about how much traffic in Iceland could benefit from the record, just since we were taking that point? I thought of this because I think it's really interesting and it's nice to see how it's been going in Akureyri. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister of Nature Services, we've settled them on the budget of the past few years, and we've added them just before the 3rd. I think it's all going right with the plant, but if it's the highest. A minister could only go through it with us. It is an important work that is being done for them, and it is a joy to see that they are getting along well and that they are interested in hearing about it. In many parts of the country, living in the home is a safe and successful business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u261	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for taking the discussion of the record further. This, I believe, is one of the factors in which we have a lot of time and would like to mention, for example, that the refill of a metal car, if I get it correctly, can do it from Reykjavík to Isafjörður, but there is no station in Isafjordur. Why can't we have record stations elsewhere in the country, even though they don't produce the ground record, as if we can have gas and diesel stations scattered across the country without being manufactured at the site? This is something that I know that the group that is now working to offer new suggestions about or from New Year's Eve. I understand these are not the most expensive operations you can perform, e.g. will be more likely to attack the infrastructure for the hydrogen. I'm not on a speedbed how much I can use the estimate today or when the capital area is increasing in size but is able to provide what is needed. A senator's information, if it exists. I mean, about the nature labs, they're a little bit of my favorite, but I only have 26 seconds. I'll just start. We walked this year from our contract with 20 rural communities on the eight nature clinics in the country that made long-term contracts to 1923, so we are trusting the very economy and the operating security of the nature clinic for five years. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u262	Madam President. It is a pleasure to be in the long run of nature's clinics and to be told at the highest. Minister is talking about contracts as far as 2023. The minister can continue with the plant's next answer. There's a huge possibility in appreciation, and this is interesting because it's a natural highly reactive gas and one metal car on the street can almost share a carbon share of whole streets, a record 21 times more reactive than CO 2. It would be interesting and pleasant if a little more was addressed to the general debate that energy is being used better. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was telling me that there was talk that as many as 20,000 cars could be driven by such energy sources from Hellishe activation. I just wanted to talk about forestry and agriculture. Now, there was considerable emphasis on this in our financial program this spring, and I just want to continue with the way it is reflected in the budget now, the emphasis on forestry and land healing as a carbon binding, the way it is on the budget and whether it's at the top. In the years that follow, a minister can describe the vision of the future, how we envision a carbon binding through land healing and forestry. The volume varies greatly from species in the forest to species. Have experts in that area come up with some ideas about where the emphasis is in carbon binding, e.g. The woodforest? I'll make it count for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u263	Madam President. To continue with the nature firms then, as I say, contracts have arrived in 2023. I'd like to point out that in the budget bill showing the contribution to the plant, if shared in the labs, we're talking about 19.1 million a year in our living room, which is actually 21.2 because there are 16 million that are even between them in other parts of the system. The policy we've taken at the Ministry is to try to secure this foundation and then work on special agreements with the natural institutions on the basis of specific projects and especially when it comes to monitoring. For example, I'd like to say that we now arranged a contract with the nature lab in the Stykkisolmit for monitoring and the acquiring of scientific data on less than 12 million to two years in Iceland's nature. In Húsavík and Bolungarvík, contracts have been made up to about 10 million for each and then funded budgets are being made as a result of monitoring in the environment and other environments under pressure from tourists. I can't tell you exactly how that transition will be, but there's a lot more to it. Only with regard to forestry and agriculture and the emphasis displayed in the budget. Refining contributions and forestry are increasing, with a change of less than 200 million years. This will be increasing in the coming years as well. I think I have to take this discussion about species at the moment. A senator someday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u264	Madam President. The year 2020 is coming, and it is ten years before we must have fulfilled our part of the Paris Convention. In order to achieve this, it takes more than 100,000 tons of tons to be crushed each year, actually very underestimated, in the next decade. If Iceland doesn't get it, it's clear that no country can make it, we're doing very well. This would not only be a serious defeat in the battle against disaster, which will have disastrous consequences for mankind as a whole but would also bring significant costs to Iceland, both in the form of taxes and in the form of economic damage, resulting in worsening weather conditions. There are some positive things in these budgets that are intended to do, that are heresies, motivations, and regulations. And that's the best part. However, in many places it has been observed that only with large increases in forestry and the recovery of wetlands, we will be close to reaching our goal. At least fourfold has been said in the forestry industry to reach its goal. I am optimistic, but how grateful I am for the existence of optimists! However, the increase in natural protection, forestry, and land healing are 2.2% by 2020 compared to this year, which is also 1.7% reduction compared to 2018. So my question is, is the highest. Minister for real? It is now said that the scope of newforestation, healing, and recovery of ecosystems is increasing. Is that it? I see the raise is 113 million. K. but not 200 million. K. Like the highest. Minister mentioned earlier. But when we face untold damage, we must be able to spit a little into our hands. [[The president calls.]] There's obviously an expansion in the administration, but I'm not sure that more of a Brazilian filter will help to bind carbon. [[The president calls.]] The highest. A minister only helps me get a little hope that this will be all right, because we can't help it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u265	V.E.G. President. I'll do my best, boy. A senator, to give hope. A senator also works hard on that, I think. Regarding the plans we've presented in the Ministry and presented in July. We are looking at the next four years to tenfold when it comes to donations for wetlands and the doubles when it comes to forestry and doubled when it comes to land healing. What the senator goes on to mention about the sums of such as those reflected in the budget, we have not really left all the elements that are part of the carbon binding on institutions or on special projects but, rather, still remain in museums. This is because part of the work is going to be done. It can be criticized that the museum members are tall and suspect that the next member of a pontta is going to do so, so it may be nice to start answering right away. However, when the work is much better, the contributions being made to the seminar and the process takes time to process and perhaps a little too long, perhaps. Senators looking at me. I can try to explain it better afterwards, but I hope that this has answered in principle. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u266	A respectable president. That was an excellent guess, but I'm going through only other psalms. There's a lot to talk about in a short period of time. The untold damage mentioned earlier is one thing we have to deal with, the cost of not living up to commitments. We need this schedule to know how much this will cost us, and the question really is, When do we get it? The reason we need it is for making the decision and for evaluating the benefits of making decisions that will be less likely to be made because the improvement is two-fold in that case, e.g. benefit from healing and forestry. In the first place, it is a relief. But it also reduces the cost we would eventually pay. The other question is about the disposal clearances we're selling. That's about a billion bucks. which we're getting for sales, it was 1.3 a year ago, and it was 290 million a year before, it's very swinging. In recent times, however, there has been quite a rise. But I wondered, " Why does the amount drop last year and what really happens if we decide not to sell? ' What does this mean for our commitment to emissions? Can we, for example... took them as a plus? Can we screw up the price in any way, is the auction system so that we could try to sell at a higher price?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u267	Madam President. I want to thank you. A member of the council is impressed with the fact that he has not fully predicted what the senator was going to ask. This means you have to live, the uncertainty of being here. If I start with the release clearances, it's what I've been willing to do to call the money from Brussels home. It was planned that this year it would be spread that would have gathered up, and I'm not quite prepared for what the situation of it is. I suppose the reason for the drop of the year is because of WOW's bankruptcy, but I dare not say so. This is my guess here from the Trustee's debate, as irresponsible as it may sound, but assume that the minister of finance knows it better. Then comes the second. A senator internalizes a principle based on action. That's exactly one of the things we've been trying to do now from the start of this operation in 2018, to try to put better prices on the cost and cost of these measures. It's like what we're doing. A senator has often discussed some of the more complex things to do. I mentioned earlier that we've started work at the National Institute of Economics for the carbon account of Iceland's University. She's getting back. We've done the same thing about F-gas, we're looking at this with other factors, and I hope that with a new plan, we can answer that even better. Maybe we can't answer everything. But one thing I'd like to say about the profit, because it was specifically mentioned the river on recovery, foresting, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, is really a factor we have not known so far. [[The president calls.]] But I totally agree that it needs to improve information and knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u268	A respectable president. I'm going to give the highest. Minister of the pleasure of merely talking about nature clinics because I'm so interested in them too. I know that within a plant, there is a great knowledge that has been built up in over two decades and is based on the role of those who preserve natural resources and are involved in scientific research in the part of the country where the living room operates and provides advice and research. There have also been various tasks among them, depending on their location, their assignments, and their speciality in their territory, so they are precious. The study of vegetation, bird life, and animal life, archaeological research, the study of fish farms, and sea life, for example, has various tasks. V.E.G. A minister said that he had assigned 22 million to a natural home and 16 million others in the system. I'd like to take it only after the special contracts that have been made and additional projects that have been assigned and that provide financial support. How's the top? A minister has the impression that the plant can be built in these areas, especially in Western lands or Western lands, where fish farms are available, what can enter? And because we've talked about a little bit of a nature lab, I'd like to mention only the alarm with a nature problem, e.g. with avalanches and landslides that have occurred more frequently today. It's the highest. A minister of any aspect of increasing the alarm?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u269	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his input. It's true what was mentioned here, negotiations have been arranged with all of the plant's institutions to 2020, which I consider to be a very successful and successful stage. The amount shown in the budget is divided between them, but also 16 million, 2 each. To further appreciate what kind of contracts this is with the nature labs, they're all on the scene. As far as I'm concerned, nature clinics are very useful in such tests. Iceland's Institute of Natural Sciences also does, and we are now working with some 80 to100 million each year, which is a new budget, for the monitoring of natural areas and other areas under pressure from tourists. This is really what we see in some way, but I'm not yet in the hands of the National Institute of Natural Science and Nature to see how it would be done. This may be what I look forward to over the years to become a basis for furthering their activities. As for the agreements that already exist, I named the Nature Agency at Húsavík and in Bolungarvík, both of which are about birds, but the deal with the Institute of Nature in Sykkislíli is about to provide scientific information on the mementos of Iceland, which we all know is a aggressive species and to support the planning and implementation of its destruction. They are trying to build a scientific approach on how to stop the spread of the species.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u270	A respectable president. Thank you so much for your answers and for the best. A minister to the gratifying of these materials, for these are very important tasks carried out by nature offices. V.E.G. Ministers may answer a little bit more about the threat of nature, but I would like to go east and west too. In accordance with the new legislation on marine and coastal planning, the building of a coastal and preliminary system of the law shall recommend that such an organization be implemented on the West and Eastern Europe. This requires great cooperation with local governments. We were talking about the Homes, and this could fall to some extent on their assignment. This organization is especially important because these are areas in which fish farming is built and therefore it is necessary to speed it up as possible. That's why I want the highest. Ministers according to the progress of this project and when it may be estimated that this work will be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u271	V.E.G. President. For nature monitoring it is the same as it is currently being used for today. Iceland's Weather Office and, in fact, more people are involved. In many ways it is very extensive, not only in terms of the threat of volcanic eruptions but also in many ways, as well as in other types of disaster. I would especially like to mention the increased risk of landslides that have developed in recent years, including the U.S. Because permafrost is thawing on mountain slopes. Although the incident in trying fun may not necessarily be related to it, it is likely that in some other parts of the country, I would like to mention, for example, that there was a huge flood in my home in the Valley of Hithoram last year. This is a point that we are now working to expand with the Weather Room and that we have secured next year an additional person or one status value to do research in that area. When it comes to the coastal system, it is assigned as a three-year project, if I remember correctly. That work began at the first part of this year. According to the information I've begun, it's not far yet, but it's begun, so I'm keeping my eye on the Organizational Institute and the Committees there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u272	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I may first want to make a subject of the changes that are taking place in green taxes and highers. Though we would like to see other taxes downhill, we support them wholeheartedly. I think we need to use the tax system in a much more specific way than we do in order to force needed changes. There I might be afraid, and would be interested to hear a little more the minister's viewpoint on the subject, that it is simply not supported by it in this government, e.g. In this regard, carbon expenditures are used sufficiently in order to drive energy change in transport. Likewise, I listened to the criticism that the very internal structure in this area is going way too slow. Me and the highest. Ministers have had this conversation before, we are concerned that the government's changing land use, forestry, and recovery of wetlands are too heavy for the climate. That certainly is an important factor, but there is not enough emphasis on reducing carbon emissions. We may be saying that we are using some kind of absolution instead. Second, I would also be interested in hearing the highest viewpoint. Minister when it comes to land use. It may be like talking about agriculture and climate and the international emphasis on changing patterns, cutting down meat intake, and changing the agricultural support system to change land use while reducing production and, for example, reducing the payment on eviction of lamb meat. It would be interesting to hear the ultimate view. A minister in the light of what we can do to force similar changes here as we are being offered internationally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u273	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know what he has said, and as he said, we've discussed this before. First of all, I'm so glad we're raising green taxes. We can mention a tax on the watch that came up here. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and we had a place to talk about it earlier. The same is true of taxation on so - called fluorinated greenhouse gases, which are products used in cooling mediums. This is a big thing that was not to be seen when the government was put together at the time. So this is something that could fall for further analysis of green taxes. But I would like to agree that we need to consider how we use this tax system. Where should she come down? She should be flat or should try to have the aim of achieving the most effective approach to pollution, i.e. On the basis of the international pollution policy that those who pollute cities or pay back? At that time, the export of these taxes is frequent. If we take this tax as an example, it is tax that will likely be involved in the development of the local community or those who own the reception points. It is very important to encourage those who are industrious, set aside, where eating is low, whether in a home or in a business, can enjoy doing well. This is a basic element to work with. I guess I'll have to take farms and change land use later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u274	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers and I agree exactly that this is a top priority, e.g. For the implementation of taxation. I hear concern from the north, where citizens of Akureyri and the surrounding region have achieved significantly better results than those of the capital area in the martunculum and organic waste generation, and as a result a significant reduction in waste disposal has been observed. But it must be the right motivation. Not only do such communities and their inhabitants have to enjoy doing well in these areas. And how dangerous it is to use this only as a flat tax system, which does not produce results in reducing waste in this case or in the case of emissions, pay the price of carbon bills. That's why I'm wondering again, too, about using land and agriculture, how we can patch this up together. It is obvious that our high share of emissions is due to agricultural production of wetlands. It must be the nature of our desire to reinvigorate wetlands and forestry and to reduce production. This, of course, is a delicate subject, but in these reflections, I am not suggesting that agricultural support be reduced. What we bottle so many times here is that we've got a trajectory that's starting to fall apart. We have agrienvironmental policy that conflicts with our environmental policy, and there we need to work more together to meet our interests so that both our agricultural policy and our climate policy, or the environmental policy, work together to achieve our targets, both in cooperation with agriculture but also in achieving our goals of reducing emissions. Last time I want to say it, I just want to say it with what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I am deeply concerned about this commitment that covers us in the 2030, and there is concern that we are still increasing our emissions once we have made a commitment to reduce it dramatically. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u275	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator mentioned the emphasis on capitalism, which takes place in carbon binding and on other measures. We have in the current year, when it comes to improving both what goes on into the infrastructure, which is a major factor, and what goes into carbon binding, being considered to be that in the latter part of the financial program, we try to pull a little better from the carbon binding to other factors, and I share it with a sharp degree. A senator says it's more reasonable. So we'll see in the second part of the plan that we're going to it. This does not change the fact that land use is being spited into a great deal, which is a major factor. I have just arrived from a meeting of the United Nations Desert Convention on the United Nations, with tremendous emphasis on what the country is and the restoration of land and its sustainable use is of utmost importance when it comes to reaching the goals of many of the UN's world goals. One is desert formation, another is biodiversity, third is hunger and poverty, social stability, peace, and so forth, and the natural climate. I completely share this with the senator that this is an important point and that it emphasizes it. When it comes to agriculture, it is absolutely right that we need to discuss it and record it, even though we have a contract to 2026, which is which we can improve our coordination, since this is a key to reducing emissions from an unscrupulous country. We have started now, and quite far, with a project to help farmers also get more involved in a project of carbon binding and that it can become part of what agriculture has to say. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'm just going to say about the wastes that they are naturally exemplary in Akureyri, as noted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u276	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the environment, my names, for his history. I want to talk to him about green taxes. I always get a bit of a chill when we're talking about new taxes and new fees, and mostly because of those that are the worst in our society. I always ask myself, and he may be able to answer it, whether or not they should be spared these new fees, taxes, and various taxes that are going on about the environment. I don't think these people are the ones who are the most polluted, and they should protect them irreverently from getting those taxes. But there is something else about national parks and places, in our beautiful country that people are visiting, i.e. access to wheelchairs and crutches and walkers. I know that the situation has not been good, and I'm not in this bill what to put in so much money to build up at tourist places for disabled people, places, places to get around the area, and also toilet facilities, and other things that these people have the right to know about. How much to spend on this and how quickly to get it right? I know it's not okay today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u277	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator is a great man for his inwards. When it comes to green taxes and activities in general, it is very important to remember that they do not take into account those mentioned. This too is a global discussion, one that needs special attention. When it comes to new taxes, plagion taxes, and tax in cooling services, the latter place the business, whereas the green taxes, which turn to the guards, both in homes and in companies, fall. My firm has about 60% of the guards and 40% of the houses. And as I said before in my reply to another's legs. The way the tax will be replaced is important to a senator. If it is an incentive and actually acts as an incentive for us to sort waste and reduce what is waste, especially organic waste, then we will pay much less, and the tax concept is that it will actually be unnecessary at some point. As for the parks, I'd like to mention that we're putting 3.5 billion 2019,2021 into the infrastructure. Part of it, in some places at least, goes to improve the bioavailability of people with motor impairment. However, I wholeheartedly agree with the senator that we can do much better in many lands and that we would not be able to examine in particular the ways in which we might do better. Finally, I want to mention in this answer that when we look at green taxes and measures in climates in general, we need to consider the health effects of pollution that affect us all, but especially those less fortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u278	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and he agrees deeply. We can all agree that if a tax is put on waste and weighing it, there is no danger, in most cases there is no waste from it because they cannot afford to buy one or anything, at least. Many. And I think we have to spit in our hands to make a proper access to our national parks and elsewhere, in most places people have to be able to find and visit. Something else has searched my mind lately, and I'm not comfortable with it, but it was when I saw a video in the news, a brief piece of news, from Elfs. It was burning hazes, a 600°C hot burner that heated up the entire environment. When I saw this, I became quite speechless, and I thought, " What's going on? I think it's getting close to that year since I saw it on the news. I'm asking you, is it still today? Is this gas still being burned? And if it is being burned, then how much value is it burned? And I'm also asking, aren't you working on this? It must be. But I also understand the other viewpoint I have read about, that it is far better to burn the gas than to let it into the atmosphere, and it tells itself that, of course, we should burn it. But I just ask, " Can't we try to find some useful value for it so that it becomes something of value? ' We should rather, I would say, just to give it to make things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u279	V.E.G. President. I wholeheartedly agree with that. A senator that there is, in fact, a resource we are not making good use of. As the senator mentioned, it is better to burn it than to be burned up, let us say, into the atmosphere. However, the ability to use this gas on a car is one of the tasks. We've introduced infrastructure activities related to the spring climate, where we focus on what turns to electric cars and infrastructures, but we also reported that a work force between recruitment practices is working to shape the suggestions for the use of the metal and the use of hydrogen. I'm hoping we can see on either side of the year some suggestions on this. For example, I could mention a record truck capable of driving from Reykjavík to Isafjörður, but he will not be able to return unless he has some other fuel sources to get the other way. There's nothing to argue that we can move the metals to the bases across the country, just as we can do with diesel and gasoline. This is one of the things this group will need to look at, and hopefully we'll be able to set some kind of capital in building these structures up, too, so we can use the resources we have. A senator spoke of going to the courts in his heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u280	A respectable president. We'll talk about a budget bill next year. In five minutes, you can't go deep into all the lawsuits, so I'm going to skim over key issues. What I'm happy with this budget bill is that we're setting up family issues, normal families and children's families, above our priorities. We are taking major steps when it comes to the maternity system by continuing in the current year to restore the birthworm system, but after the economic collapse, it yielded much to cut. The big change is being made because there we are proclaiming an increase of 12 months after an increase. It means on the basis of a year that this amount will be 20 billion for the birthworm system in 2017. This means the double that flows directly to a family in many parts of the country. This, in addition to the changes and increases in the child - welfare system, is all very important, although child - welfare isn't directly related to my topic area where it is saved at the Ministry of Economics as it is known. We are also under heavy operation on the premises that have already begun to be returned, and next year we will continue in the construction of the general tissue supply system set up in 2016 by the local social and housing minister of Eygló Harðardóttir. That will be the next year, with 600 apartments built and about 3.7 billion dollars in it. and sliding, including to build up housing in partnerships with unions, communities and other parties. In housing, we are also working on a number of other measures that may not directly appear on a budget but, as such, are extremely important. Preparations for special loans for low income and young people and people who lost their assets in the financial collapse. The bill will be submitted to this council in terms of this group. We are also involved in a number of activities in the country, recently introducing a special loan block to the region, and in preparing to follow 12 measures announced during the summer, with specific attention to the construction of the country's home, all of which have been placed in an equal structure of housing. We are not going to let that happen in the time of that government. A respectable president. There are a lot of increases in budgets from year to year, and unfortunately, it's because we're adding on to the non-employment bill and the pay of remuneration. Of course, we know the contingency of the WOW airline. The government has worked hard to cooperate with the people of the South, not only within the Department of Social Affairs, but also through other departments to follow it, and, of course, there is an increase in the budget to meet this unemployment. A respectable president. With the groups of the elderly, there is a bill designed to appear at this council to especially cover the elderly living on the worst income. It is that there was set up a working team in cooperation with the older citizen's National Association, which specifically went into the position of this group and a bill is expected in the winter to cover him and establish a special support system for him. We also have a good cooperation with the older citizens of the United States to investigate the issues of the elderly in a larger context and in what ways we can improve the status of that group, both in housing, prevention, prevention, rehabilitation, and so forth. It's nice to tell you that the group that got started, and all of this is done in good cooperation with the older American National Association, had its first meeting today, and was very successful. In contrast with microenergy pensioners, there is an increase in the budget between 2019,2020 from 68 billion to 74 billion. It is not only because of demographic development, due to prices and funding because of poor housing we had much discussions during our last council but also because there is an estimated 1.1 billion for an increase in the seminary. This, in turn, lays down what comes at the end of this year's budget to follow a judgment that fell on some of the elderly. A respectable president. I can't go any further because I'm done with time, but I'm very pleased with the emphasis the government has on these seminars. [[The president calls.]] We focus on family issues, the affairs of young people, and the children. The results have begun to be made, we'll see in this bill, and we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u281	V.E.G. President. The financier bill says that support measures for people with impaired ability and cooperation in education and rehabilitation are to be provided for the increased growth of effective measures for disabled persons and for those with impaired ability to become active workers in a labour market. Also, with the permission of the president, it says: To support the jobseekers of students who are attending high school as well as students who are engaged in professional diplomacy at the University of Iceland, they are expected to work on a permanent cooperation of the work programme and education system. Now I see in my hand that this legal group overlaps between recruitment, social security, and the Ministry of Education, but I still want to know if a social security minister will not use it to make it possible for a number of professional diplomat studies to be made available at a higher degree in the country and that post-school jobs will be available across the country. I want in the highest, too. Ministers to see whether to meet those pensioners who have to rely on government insurance reforms. To put this into context, the basic benefits of these pensioners are 247,000. per month, but will increase by 8,645k. That's what I'm saying because of the highest. A minister spoke about the elderly before, but I feel that he needs to come into more groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u282	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these inquiries. Preparatory work is being carried out between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs, when it comes to individuals with limited skills and what will take place after school, about a complete operation to catch that group after school. I may not be in a position to discuss academic matters in that part of the world, but we have a representative at that job, and these weeks are forming, I would like to say, fine suggestions that should be taken by this group. We've talked about early options and resources for young people who are entering the workforce, and it's very important to start at that end. That is what we are going to do. I hope we can get them to do either this year or the next one to catch up with them and help them right after school. In the case of rising to microenergy pensioners, I covered the amount of money we're posting next year. There is an increase. A decision has not been made on how to take care of it, but we need to keep in mind that each year, of course, both the legal group of elderly and the microestates are increasing the index number. It has been reported that specific increases due to the increase in salary in this joint are not relevant but pay is not related to the index. The increases are in salary at the end of the year because they are negotiated in collective agreements, which are an increase in the category of budgets, as I traced to my introductory speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u283	V.E.G. President. The budget bill will read the following, with the permission of a president, and I will surely welcome it: The evaluation of financial and financial programs involves a decision for social and economic priorities by the government. Because of the different positions of women and men, the revenue and distribution of the public money have different effects on the genders to be taken into account in decision making. It is now apparent that in all the affairs of the state, there will be a link between the sensory economy and that an annual level assessment will be conducted. That's why I want to go to the highest. Social and child - care minister according to the way he's going to live on this one, since decisions vary between the sexes, as stated and in the financial bill, in which there are gender rights to work, we make financial plans and budgets in the spirit of OECD's guidance. I am fully aware that the induction of this vision takes time, so it is important that a problem is made so realistic and significant. Therefore, it is beneficial to hear how to do so. Minister intends to introduce a sensory economy and an equal assessment in his Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u284	A respectable president. The overall vision of equality moved from the Ministry of Social Affairs last year, yet the government places great emphasis on equality. Preparatory work and groundwork is being carried out by the financial bill at the Department of Social Affairs, which cooperates with other conferences, and with the Ministry of finance, when it comes to equality. They're always checking it out. The entire government, not only the Ministry of Social Affairs, stresses equality as it has been in many places, and I also welcome interest. A senator on equality. I think, based on a general discussion, she's the only senator in his class who has some interest in this case, and that's a good thing. One has not sensed this in other members of the party, either in public discussion or in the discussion here at the council Hall. We're working on that stuff every day. It's being done in cooperation with another agency on a financial bill, and we're going to continue to do so, for this is of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u285	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his review in this area of social and child care, which covers many areas, from the affairs of children and elderly, from families, refugees, and unemployed to employment and housing and between. I'd like to speak to a minister about housing, but the minister said they were in a lot of action in this regard. The lease market has 50,000 people, a number of families, young people, children's families, and older people who don't have a chance to invest in an apartment. And how does the government react? Yes, by doing nothing. There's nothing to change. In fact, the contribution to housing is shrinking to real value. What are we talking about, Mr. President? We're talking about the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who speaks of a massive attendance for housing. The house - to - house support of the budget bill is divided into general housing and housing and interest support, and if we look at the compensations, there is no updates on them and there is also a reduction in the number of those entitled to receive interest. In other words, there is nothing to change for the better, no big attendance, but real growth improvements are to be reduced. There's no upgrade. What about the tenants? How will the government meet them? Yes, by cryo-conservation levels, they have actually been dwindling along with rising rents. I'm not finding any of these. No. The ASI economist has pointed out the same thing. It says little or nothing in the budget bill previously promised for housing, i.e. to support young people and those who are investing in their first estate. There is no other question than to ask the first talk in this great government business: What is going on? So, as we're two years into the election, are we still wondering how this is going to be done at the end of the term?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u286	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is wish. A senator's happiness is premeditated on the World Health Committee. I look forward to cooperating with her and the committee for the coming affairs of the council. I am pleased to take up a discussion about the housing situation and may need more time to do so than two minutes. The government is taking a lot of action on housing. I was last at a meeting with the National Association of Iceland today, along with the executives of the government, which described the situation of the biographies and the Constitution and the procedures being carried out, but we have also put forth an effort to cooperate fully with the labour market partners. The rent market business is being handled by increasing the number of public apartments. The bill has been issued during the coming council to sharpen rent laws to improve tenants'rights - all in good cooperation with the labour market partners. We're preparing support for the first buyers with special mortgages. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened to the person who follows the following interview by economists ASI when all of this was answered. It's not expected in here because there are special mortgages where the government lends young people or buys real estate with them. It does not fit into budgets, for supporting young people in this way would not be considered to be the direct expenses of a government fund. We have also been discussing how the State can be involved in financing unfavourable societies, including some of them. The labor movement. Nor will it find its way into the budget. I have high hopes of having a good partnership with it. A senator, for example, has many issues - four big cases that I think - those who enter a welfare committee in the winter and are in charge of this arrangement for housing. I look forward to introducing the Constitution to the Committee to work with us on these matters but not to take out a few pieces and not to link them to the bigger picture. We're beginning to see results in these operations because the young ones who are buying their first estate are increasing. [[The president calls.]] We've begun to see the results. The action has begun to work, and important elements are being introduced during the current council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u287	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm going to ask him about other things in the second question. It is a pleasure to know that the government finds many loopholes to let others pay off their actions, and, of course, it's nice to hear that there are some things in the maps that are not seen in budgets because someone else is handling it, that's just a good thing. But I'd like to talk to the highest. A minister of the class he should, in view of the beautiful promises of government officers, also being taken care of. These include elderly, desperate ones, and out - of - work ones. The increase in donations from the elderly is as early as it is due to growth in that group. Older people who rely on getting the necessary advance through the social security system have no rise, no increase. This will only increase 3.5% at the same time as the pay in the general labour market will increase much more, normally, according to the increase of all needs. But when it comes to those who are in pension, it's all of a sudden, it's a wide-scale bum, in the opinion of the government. The wide banks are covered there and are to be raised by 3.5%. It's considerably smaller than the ones on the lowest salary, they only get right away next year. Then you ask: " What are these diverse, large groups of people that have not long been in need of the basic necessities of life? ' Where's justice, chief? Minister? This group is not living on the air alone. At the same time as the increase in pensions by 3.5%, the same government decides to raise all the expenses that everyone has to pay regardless of the economy by 2.5%. Where Is Justice? Why should these people always have to wait?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u288	A respectable president. I've got to start by mentioning the housing issues. Hv. A senator who is chairman of the welfare committee must take it into account that there are many ways in which the State can handle matters. The state may come with a more favorable budget for a trusted partner. Is that not supported? Yes, there is support even if he does not directly appear in financial matters. We were starting a new loan party with favorable loans to the country. Is that not a home environment? Yes, housing is very supportive. Does that show up in a financial bill? No. How important it is, then, that we examine the overall picture when it comes to housing, not being stuck in the numbers of the budget. With older ones and micro-terrestrial patients, it is this way, as I said in the introduction, that we agreed with the National Association of older citizens to examine the situation of the worst set group there. We did this by means of a special report submitted to a team that expected a special relief class to support those who had the smallest rights in the Pension System and who were the worst. In preparation, there is a bill that will be submitted for this assembly and will be treated at the moment. The welfare committee. We're looking at the big picture with older citizens, and that's also part of our team. The first meeting was held there today, and it is a pleasure. However, when people are talking about growths and linking ups in the general labour market, I don't believe that the senator is saying that it should both be so that it's all relevant and that it should be raised. The advantage of the improvement system is that it is an indexal number, and as a result, it has been improved by an index number every year as salary has not always been raised because it is a collective agreement. Remuneration is not meaningful, and it is extremely important not to mix. If we consider this, in recent years the lowest income for full - time jobs has increased less than the payoffs when it comes to percentages and scales. [[The president calls.]] I say, we can't mix this. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're making index-point improvements, they also rise next year and the next year because they're always index-related, and they always raise every year that the pay doesn't automatically make because it's a collective agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u289	The president has a clear understanding of the importance of this class, but he still wants less of it. Councilmen and the highest. Minister should respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u290	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister has taken detailed care of the amount of housing involved. That is well, housing is one of the most important subjects in each family. It is therefore a pleasure to hear how much emphasis is given. Minister and chief. The government has imposed the housing issues. All surveys show that most people want to live in their own homes. There is a measure of security in it as well as in dignity. People usually want to have their own home, and they don't want to risk being dumped by a contract or to see the rent prices rise suddenly. Two groups are in a similar position, one of the victims of the collapse of their property and thus have had to be rented from a bank collapse. This group has had a very difficult time getting back into the market and investing in a new home. He's in a rented market and has very high rent fees every month, so he can't get through payment. I don't know how large this is, but there's always a considerable number of people who describe their experience of not being able to get back into the house after the collapse of the bank, and they've created a measure of insecurity. There is another group who have a very high budget because rent payments have gone up, but they still don't get payment for the payments on housing with less payment than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u291	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is one of the groups we want to take in the government's actions during this ideal period. Now more than ten years have passed since the collapse, and there is a very large group that is still stuck in a rented market and not because he wants to be there. Last year's camp loans surveys show that this group wants to make their own housing, but they simply can't because they're in bondage. Hence, the idea of the loans presented here was invented by the last spring and shared in the biographies as one of the procedures to be considered. In the behind, they too are borrowing to those who lost their possessions in the financial breakdown because that group is far too large. I can't go over the transmission on them exactly because it's being worked on. So much I can say, though, that at that job, people have found ways to catch this group, and I look forward to introducing this matter at the council, even more, when it can become a law. It is important to embrace this group of people who are somewhat lost in the community. These are not necessarily unique families in the lowest possible salary. These are all in the weight, from the lowest tithe even to the middle of the scale. They're just locked up because they can't make it to the market, they're on a black list. That's a group we're going to put our arms around.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u292	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. I'd like to come to another matter and ask the highest question. A minister may even be able to help in another group. We see reports of attendances at the Hospital and other health - care centers. Is it not the minister's understanding that in the number of projects done by the Department of Social Affairs, there may well be help to the health system in a so-called phase 1 service, so that there are not so many steps to be solved, e.g. In terms of open - minded measures, such as mental health care and child protection, where the root of the problem can be reached, where it begins, and where it is weaker and less expensive at the start, so that we do not need to see an increase in attention to the health - care system? Is that not so important? By working contrary to litigators in finding the root of the problem and joining in dealing with the problem there right away, we will be able to make more use of the government's resources to help those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u293	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this suggestion. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree completely on the matter. Yesterday, both of us were in a very remarkable meeting held by the Power of Mind. Five young people who have either had suicidal thoughts or tried to commit suicide talked about their experiences and considered how the system would have helped them, how they would have had to be different, and described all of them as how they could have been taken in the past, and how they would have avoided the desire to escape such reflections or efforts. Hv. A senator has been working together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, through a transboundary Senate Committee, and in cooperation with other departments, also making changes in the welfare system, making clearer terms between the 1st, 2nd and 3rd services, increasing the incidence of measures in the phase 1 service where these individuals can be taken, not necessarily through medical resources, but even with educational or social services, community services, or individual outages of free society. It is urgent to create a network for these individuals. I totally agree with what. A senator and I are convinced that if we are able to make changes that make it possible for us to draw together on this, both in politics and in the system, we can, in the long run, save a lot of money inside the system as well as save lives and make a lot of lives more people. This takes all the time, and it is important to remember to have as many as possible on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u294	President. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: The decision to evaluate and follow the optimal revenue in the Icelandic community will be given to you. Then comes the second sentence in the paragraph, with the permission of the president: THE situation of poor children, one of the most vulnerable groups in society, has to be considered especially. I agree with this, especially with her. Now that the season is half over, it was six months since the Department of Traffic published her report on the quality of life and the poverty of children in Iceland, from 2004•2016. I'm thinking how this information, this fact, and the fact that a minister has put a child's case first, at least put them in the title - I'd like to see if he put this case first because he's authorized by the Constitution. He has a place to point out: Here it says that especially the situation of children living in poverty who are one of the most vulnerable groups in society. A child - care minister gives support to the government covenant to say: We need to ensure that children who live in poverty receive what they need in order to get them out of poverty. How's the top? Ministers working on these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u295	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The report to which he quoted was prepared for the Strategies Watch of Kolbeinn Stefánsson's son, and there's a lot of it that we've taken with us into the current work. It was there, for example. spoke of the importance of rebuilding the birthworm system. This was one of the points that he specifically mentioned in his report. There we have added funds, are extending birthworm, and are now reevaluating a total observatory study, and are going to introduce it next year. There we will look at these special groups and even more than has been done. We've taken certain measures in the child reform system when it comes to this group. We also have some aspects of housing work done, and of course it is. The 600 apartments I mentioned earlier in the general apartment system, 600 apartments next year, 600 apartments every year, 600 apartments last year, all built with the goal of especially appealing to the group of individuals and families who live on the worst income. Children's families. We are also considering further adjustments in housing matters to take on even more drastic measures in particular against this group. It's not time to put them up at this point, but we're going to put our arms around this group. The report of Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson's son is a complete Bible for us to grab these children because it is the firm group I discussed earlier, including the children. in answer to what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, whom we need to catch sooner, gets to him early, before he gets bored later, and we are going to do so. [[The president calls.]] But we need to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u296	President. Homing business? These actions come a little later and cover several people, etc. In the large context, we are talking about poor children while they are poor, suffering in want, and suffering, and they can suffer before the time of life. Then, as the minister described, the early intervention is very important, that it is early in and interrupted. Then there's a question about disability -- what they're getting. The report specifically says that children's status is on a pair of singles, they're the worst, I'm not talking about if you're a single person and an invalid, then you're in the worst group. These are children whose worst situation is in poverty. The rise in basic disability is approximately 8,000 k. What else? Does a minister have a picture of it? How big is this group? If we look at children who live in poverty, what is this large group? Where is he? Where's the best way to make use of the funds? What is needed for e.g. all children out of this? That's 100%. How many of these suggestions will get children out of poverty? Is that 8%, 10%, or 20%? Does a minister have any idea? If people say that the status of children living in poverty is particularly important because they are one of the most vulnerable groups in society, you would think that there must be a clear picture of who this group is. If we are to take special care of them, we need to know who they are, and we need to know what is needed to get them out of poverty. Does a minister have any idea? Can he tell us if there are 10◯20%, or what in this budget bill will have the effect to bring children out of poverty and then how many?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u297	A respectable president. As I explained earlier, we are under multiple measures in these matters, there are tax changes, changes in child repair systems, housing procedures. All of this points to this group, to intervene. The problem, however, is that even though we know it as a reason. A senator says, for what the poverty of children can lead - and we don't want it; we know the consequences later on for these people - there is far too little statistical on how it is being handled. The government decided, for example. in cooperation with UNICEF to finance a regular report on the situation of children living in poverty in Iceland. If we need these statistics, we also do not know whether our actions really have results. We can talk into the infinite, but while we don't have these tools and tools to measure it, we don't know if the actions will work. We're trying to take some action to get around this group. At the same time, however, we are making drastic changes that are aimed at taking these children sooner. One of the projects we set out for this purpose is a project to work with Kopavog, UNICEF and the company of Kara Connecticut to create a special dashboard for children's well-being, a measuring panel that measures the position of children in the local community. We are going to see the first outline of this project on autumn days, and it was introduced to the point that it could be applied to other rural areas so that the status of children between rural society and the testing of measures we are taking, as both rural and state have a wide range of measures. We're all day to talk about surgery, but we don't have a measuring system to test it for. This will not be built in one night, but this is basic because while we don't know what's going on, we don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u298	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his review of the press in the past, though time has been far too difficult, as the minister himself did. So I may be going to concentrate on few things rather than trying to skim over the whole area. One of the things that have been discussed and many talk about during this most ideal period is the decrease in energy - pensioners'energy income, some call it a dollar to a dollar impairment, and the government has decided to cut back in the near future. I just want to hear from the Minister if he sees to it that there will be further changes to the degree that they are now, i.e. where the price is 65 bucks, where that case is, and whether he expects it to change. Then there's a question that I don't know if a minister can answer what the minister actually brought into his speech, that much of the work being done by the Ministry of Ministers. Ministers of the coming council face issues related to the so - called biography agreements. Do the Ministry or Minister have an overview of how much of the budget change is directly or indirectly related to the biographer contracts?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u299	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First of all, how do we see the budget for the next year, 1.1 billion - because of course, of course, confined to farms, in prices, or as a biological change - will be set aside next year. That's not in the way. A formal decision has not been made. But the best use of money is in the mind. With regard to biographies, much of the action of the biographies is being heard under the Department of Social Affairs and we have made our decision and are working to make sure that all the prime products associated with the biographies will occur in the coming session. But just so I answer it quite frankly: No, we're not in one place exactly how much the biographies cost in fiscal terms, not taken in. Of course, we can see the birthworm, see general apartments, that will be completed on factors that will affect the future. ... tofinancingeeee unfavourable funds from partners, personal loans, etc. so that the nature of the situation in general does not have a precise figure in the present year because we are also working the bills and working with the labour market partners, as it was also a requirement for us to do so. We had to work the exports in cooperation with the labour market partners, and that's what we've been doing and what we've done may change. The government is very united and able to continue to carry out these biographies and, as I say, to assume that all the bills in question will appear during the coming session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u300	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is of utmost importance that the government will fulfill the lifetime contracts. One of the highest cases. A minister mentioned an increase in child reforms that have, in contrast to what you could keep from talking about, increased in the government's history of one 37%, i.e. contributions to child improvement. One of my second questions has to do with whether or not. A minister has information on how much more children and families are enjoying child reforms as a result of the increase, for as more members of the United States have observed, this is important when talking about the ideals of people in the country. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Ministers only into the birthworm, which is certainly increasing. I'm going up to ten months now, and I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he is on hand to see how much it would have taken to start by extending about two months and then by one, but not as it is now done to begin in one month and then by two.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u301	A respectable president. I'm gonna be completely honest with you. A senator. I don't have the exact concept of how the rise in child development will reach every family and how many families or how many children will enjoy it. However, it could be summed up and put to the point. Senator. Regarding the birthworm, we expect an increase from year to year. In 2019 alone, just less than 13 billion are left in maternity, 2020 being just under 15. Then this figure is expected to reach 20 billion in 2022. Thus, it can be assumed that the length, once fully accomplished, will be about 4 billion, which means just over a billion, something like that, the month. But, of course, all of these are also subject to change. Now we see that the restoration of the maternity system is beginning to result in more people taking birthworm. There was an increase in the last year from 91% to 95%, as well as more fathers take the birthworm. So I'd like to believe that the figures we're raising in the budget bill, 20 billion in 2022, will be even higher if the restoration is successful. But that is not the cost of government funds. That's an investment to the future because if we have a good family life in the future, although we here hopefully all will be out of politics when individuals become taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u302	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister over the tour. If it can be summed up, then a minister is full of good intentions and has had extensive consultations with many parties. I know, however, that many of those who have been consulted have changed, although at times, perhaps especially representatives of a microenergy pensioner, have become deeply anxious about material things. I'll stick around, which comes to the highest. Ministers not particularly surprised, the plans for micro-energy pensions, where I know, after a recent conversation with micro-sponsorers, that only measures and plans have been reported. When it comes to the budget bill, there are about $1,100 million left. K. aimed at improving the benefit of microenergy pensioners. I share their concerns with you. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir described here earlier tonight, i.e. that, with a 3.5% increase in the reference levels of disability and sensibilities, this group is actually paying for the possible benefits itself. It is clear, then, that this group is being greatly reduced from other low - income groups in the community. I have to admit, Supreme. Minister, that I don't see what basic changes you can make in the micro-energy pension system, e.g. About a dollar against a dollar's decrease, for a $1,100 million. K. Now, the real problem is, and the reason why this system is so urgent is so urgent that we stand out as different in the development of disability from other northern countries. Other North countries have undergone more and less control of this trend. Over the years, evolution has been reversed, returning to work as an option. But with us, the rate of disability is still increasing. Therefore, it is very important to put your arms around the changes needed. I ask, trust the highest. A minister will see to it a change of 1,100 billion. K.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u303	A respectable president. It is known that during the past year, funding was used to make changes in a dollar to a dollar and as well as to make changes in the declines within the year when people go to work in the middle of the year - how they are calculated - all to encourage increased employment activity. Next year, this project has an estimated 1.1 billion. The problem may be, we've been working on some changes in how to introduce a change in rehabilitation system and then a work-resurrection assessment would come in the back, but it has not been willing, e.g. by the changed leadership of the Common Association, to be involved. Nor has that become the case with the Generous Community. So, that's exactly right, as a matter of course. A senator says that the pipes are growing very much in the years to come, and they continue. However, it is also a problem in the countries around us, everlasting topics. Now, the Ministry of Social Affairs has just been at a meeting with the Ministry of Counsel in other countries where this same problem exists. What we have on the Constitution for the winter is taking steps in the implementation of the job performance evaluations and the change in rehabilitation. Whether it ends with a perfect performance assessment or not, we need to stop acknowledging as a community that it is normal for young people to run into disability, even at the age of the person being here, instead of building a rehabilitation strategy. In the years to come, we need to make use of the increase rather than take it into such measures. [[The president calls.]] I think I know what. A senator is my ally in this thought, he has been so far. [[The president calls.]] I hope he continues to do so because changes are truly needed, and they are being proclaimed during the coming affairs of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u304	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yeah, that's right, I'll share your concerns. Minister of this development. A report prepared by KPMG for the Ministry of Social Affairs at one time gave clear evidence that in other countries, evolution has been reversed in many ways. That's where we're clearly different. Although it is true to the longest of us, we had a considerably lower energy burden than the rest of the North countries. But that picture is very different today. This is a very important system change that will be triggered and much more emphasis must be made on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, since it is possible on another level. I know it's the highest. A minister well knows that this is not only a matter of advancement but also of social and quality of life among those who are at risk of isolation where they are, including due to the way our system works today, it can be excluded from the labour market. I repeat, I'm worried about that, especially when looking at financial and cost costs, we can say, which is taking place in the next year, and then a considerable amount of space into 2021, that there will be no money on the exchange to attack the necessary changes. Finally, I'd like to ask you the highest. Minister to the rise of maximum excrements in observatory. I'm happy for the step we're taking, but it's often in politics that we're moving pretty slow. 600,000 bucks. The criteria were published in a 2015 maternity report, I think, and we are reaching it four years later. I'm just wondering how to get to the top. A minister will try to ensure that this standard of pay and financial resources is maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u305	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to have me and what. A senator shares the same vision when it comes to the growth of people who go into disability. Hv. A senator speaks of other countries becoming far more successful than we are. The suggestions we made in this regard were to produce new groups, including some. your rehabilitation payments, efficiency payments, medical bills, and each of these classes may involve your being in a particular strategy. That is what has happened in other countries, individuals are in that category, and as a result, the number of people who go into the biofuel is not increasing. All of this needs to be considered as a unit. We would have tremendous success in reducing the incidence of disability if we were to introduce these reform classes, in the first few years, if we were to count just how many entered the category of disability. This need to be examined in this regard. Every year, we have large sums of money on account of the incidence of disability. How positive it would be if we could use that money to secure and help people in other means of living so that they do not end up in a microenergy pension. It's built into the system, based on government funds now, as compared to an increase over the years, that we can access funding to make changes, just if we can start making the change. That is what we need to do, to start taking the first step. Of course, for the increase of the peak rents in the maternity clinic, I rejoice that this is the case. A senator, both in terms of the disability and the birthworm, is the catalyst. The government has raised a lot of money since then. The government is extending the birthworm, taking it up to 12 months. It's gonna cost the money. It costs funding to check the amount, and I'm glad to hear it. A senator is a member of the government in it, but if not in the next speech, criticize the expansion of the booth, this is spending money, etc. [[The president calls.]] I've heard them talk out of control. A senator with regard to a matter of state funds. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u306	A respectable president. We're discussing the budget and the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs has reviewed a lot of things tonight. But I'm sorry, I have to start by correcting the highest level. Minister, he was wrong here in a drunk earlier tonight. He said the index price of consumers should be raised. That's wrong. In the 69th. in the Social Security Act, it is clear about the improvements in social security, by permission of the President: Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the prices of the index price. For my part, I say: How on Earth - this doesn't get close to my understanding in an account - can it be better than a 5.7% pay sheet? How can 3% last year be better than biographies that were at a much higher percentage, at another dozen percent? Why do we not apply this simple 69 C.E. paragraph? in the law that we've approved here at the council? This should take into account the development of pay, although improvements will never increase less than the prices measured by the index price of consumption. That's clearly in the law. If these things were followed, it would be much better for the poor today, they wouldn't always be left behind. But that is to be left behind. The rise is flooding. The product should be reduced by one hand and with the other hand to reduce the person's discount. You have to make a decision about this. These people are not to be treated like this, to be told the truth and to treat them correctly and to live by the law, because this is to be raised under pay conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u307	A respectable president. I'm sorry if there's been any misunderstandings between me and my wife. Senator. What I said earlier in my case was that we need to consider this in the context of pay increases over a longer period of time. If we look at future raises from 2015 to 2020 because we're dealing with budgets next year, minimum revenues have increased over that period by 36.7%. Full-time income insurance has gone from $245,000. 335,000. These are minimal revenues at work markets, for working people. I'm not saying it's something that's easy to survive. The biofuels are rising every year. It's risen by 53.6% and left 225,000. ... at 345,000K. There are non-success micro-energy pensions, we admit it, and it's stated here. But then I'll say, "Let's talk about people who are in a job market and they're still there." That's why I said it would be positive that pensions, such as microenergy pensions, are indexed or raised by each year because wages don't automatically do it. Therefore, the contract is contracted. Thus, pay is negotiated to increase, but the pension does so over a longer period of time. And it's coming in there, it's coming back in the numbers I mentioned. But what I'm thinking about is because of what I'm doing. A senator is a great fighter for micro-energy pensioners, and I respect that, but then I would have liked to see why. A senator joins the government when it comes to trying to reduce the incidence of disability, trying to help people enter the workforce. What can we do there? I can't believe if it's just a dollar apiece, that if it's taken over, it's all fixed. We've pulled her down. Is it really so that if we decommission a cent in return, this increase stopped? [[The president calls.]] What must we do? Can't we make that trip? Because when we get on that road, we make room to improve the situation of these people, which we really need to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u308	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I welcome him. I'm gonna show him the light. He just comes to support our bill that microchips will be allowed to go to work for two years and work. Everybody makes money. The poor earn more income, the state receives tax returns. And the obvious thing is, this doesn't cost the state anything more because it has to be paid the disability or pension money, or I don't like that word, I say pension or pension. This bill has already been submitted at the council. That's what the Swedes did. So it turned out that more than 30% never returned to the system. This is a great suggestion, and I hope the Minister supports it. I'd like to point to something else that makes me sad. I went into an apartment loan fund and there's 4.2% of the interest. As I sat at a council, my pay went from bad to worse. I used to be at the pension fund and disability benefits or pensions from the State Insurance Institute, and I had a 4.5% interest in the Substitute Bank. When I was about to get to work, I made a lot of money because I got into the pension fund and pay today 1.9% interest. It's a hell of a silly move, and I'm asking, "Why in the world have they not given the worst chance on the Subcommittee Fund?" If anyone needed it, it would be them, much more than I need today. That's why I'm asking, "Why are these enormous interest on the loans of an apartment loan? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u309	A respectable president. The theoretical answer to why such high interest is at the apartment loan fund is that the loans that are made in the final version of the debt that the fund made and on which they grew. Because a lot of people are paying off their loans, like a dog. Senator, the fund has not had to go to such an invitation. The law aims that this is the way it is. However, we are making adjustments in order to be supportive of people in a housing market who want to buy their possessions and the most money - rich groups, including those being used. carnivorous pensioners, like cot. A senator before reaching the position he described in his earlier example. Part of the biographies agreements are looking at special personal loans. We are considering ways to support those who are there and who want to make their own accommodations. That's exactly what we've been pointing out about the biographies, though they've been made in connection with the labour market and with the labour market parties, there are a number of factors there, as I've traced earlier during the discussion, which are also useful to micro-vital and other pensioners - that is in the housing, e.g. with the tenant market, what we are going to do with our first buyers and those who suffer from a loss of income. It's also in the tax business, and it's in the womb. The biographies are greatly improved, not just for working people, and the facilities are part of them. That's why I hope to do it. A member of a welfare committee is taking good care of the bills that will be called in the winter, and all of them aim to reach and make more for the group of people who are young. A senator fights for his life and soul, and I respect it very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u310	A respectable president. I would like to put it to the end of this discussion how much change has taken place in a short time, over a few years, during the conversation here at the Parliament on the matter of government, in general. There is no surprise that after these changes became a law on the handling of public funds. Laws on that matter were changed basically, and we've discussed this with financial and financial policies this past summer that we wanted to bring all these issues to a better end. I would like to maintain it right here at the end of the discussion how important it is that the public finances communicate with the workforce and the implementation of the money policy. It is so far from likely that it will happen, as is happening today, that these fundamental factors will settle on the same scale. We can see this in the public finance, the government's affairs, by leaving the goals of living at the same time that the Bank is down and making long-term contracts on the labour market. This also impressed me with the wide range of economic discussions that have taken place here, in contrast with what we had at times been discussing most of the individual financial resources, even to the individual institutions, and with the wide debate on which we were heading, such as ... withinvestigatedinvestment. I think it's a great catch-up, and it's essential that this discussion, in the context of the state's discussion, should we adjust this economic divider of the state's budget just once? This financial bill shows that in recent years we have been adding extensively. This is seen when long - term development is being examined and by the increase in financial benefits of these losses, especially after 2016 changes made in pensions. With the increase in cost of health care, which is the largest increase in one category, there has been a measure of pressure on our ability, and that is just right in the discussion, to add to internalinvestment at the same time that the job life is merely reducing it. Yet, we are growing with investments. There are many manifestations of it. This is reflected in various construction projects, as is the result of transport reforms. But we need to continue this conversation and ask ourselves, " How can I improve my investment? ' I have to agree with those who express the importance of the government's investing in the future to improve the standard of living in the country and to provide better conditions for employment and transportation, which are an important part of a flourishing life throughout the country. Gesture transport is a key factor for the region, but more so here in the capital area, a very important factor that can direct much of the quality of life for people who have to travel to and from work every day to do some things. Of course, internal investors are about many other things; they are about securing the competitiveness of our Icelanders, the competitiveness of our jobs. I believe that the greatest opportunity we have to do better in this regard is to relieve financial resources. It is a good start to realize that Iceland and I are at the highest percentage of national production bound in financial activities by European countries. We also have a holding part of financial institutions that we once agreed were ahead of us for a relatively short period of time. Everyone agreed that it would be necessary to try to get rid of property again, but whether it was looked to by the Lands Bank, which we actually took over by the law of need, or to the Bank of Iceland, which was part of the stability of the ban, it was not assumed in these cases that we would permanently bind this large amount of money in financial activities. There is an opportunity that we will continue to consider to improve our investment and thus strengthen the position of our Icelanders in international rivalry. At the end of our discussion, I would also like to rejoice in how we have tried to develop this conversation through the arrangement. It may be a little special that as large a matter as the budget bill is given half an hour of public speaking with ordinary bills, this has still given the opportunity to communicate quickly. Now at the end of the second day of the discussion, it may have been that in the past, fewer talks were given than approximately Same time for the big talk. By means of this arrangement, more people will find out. All ministers are activated for the discussion, and more members, seems to me, participate in the general discussion. I think that's very good, that's a very good development. This time we presented the budget for the nation and the council in an unusually early age. I hope it helped to deepen the discussion during the first few days. It has been called for days before the discussion, so we followed the next week by introducing the budget on Friday. This is the longest preparatory time the council has ever received to prepare objectively and deeply. I expect the council and the financial Ministry to follow, to appreciate how we did it, and to take it back up to a year. I hope we'll be on our way again to publish this early bill, and I declare a great deal of will on our part to meet the transparency demand and the necessary preparation period for the discussion. Despite this preparatory period, however, in such a wide and extensive matter, it simply seems that even that time is not enough to understand everything. Therefore, this second day of the discussion has been useful in furthering into the individual issues of professional counsellors. Looks like it went well. We will continue to debate whether there is enough work to do, how tax policy should be run on the land, whether we are taking care of the money that is on the edge of the budget, whether we should prioritize it in another way, how we can better provide insight into what is going on. I take a small example here: After the financial bill was published electronically, a small calculator, which the head of the Ministry, was to be able to put together, but many have used it to understand the influence of the income tax bill, which is the bill that follows the bill's bill. I have felt very strongly that simple efficient presentation is very well - mannered in large complex issues. There I believe that the project could be done considerably better. Other than that, I don't see reason to repeat some of the points I went over here in my discussion or in the answers and other talks yesterday. I thank you for the perplexity and balance of this discussion. I think it'll be useful for the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u311	Mr. President. Today and yesterday, in the United States, we have criticized the priorities of the government, how it protects them best, but for example, set up a standard for health care and other welfare matters, education, and police. The government will take 300 billion. K. By developing cooperation from the poorest countries in the world and by maintaining military service at the Cheflavour Airport, which we find sad to know. The government is going to reduce contributions to the institutions that monitor the nation's resources and not encourage national environmentally friendly production, such as vegetable culture. It is incomprehensible that the government does not guarantee improved management of the public hospital. The claim to land hospital for more than half a billion is accompanied by reduced services and extensions. The union severely criticizes high school expenses and the average land area is OECD and Northern countries when contributions to our university are reached. We also criticize those who need to rely on the insurance bill are kept to the poor with less than the lowest amount paid. We criticize the fact that banks should be sold before there is a change in the system that will lead to a less expensive and better banking system for the public and that the most risky investments will not be funded by loans. But the highest. Minister speaking for the bank sale, I'm asking if it's the highest. The minister believed that a bank or a bank item will be sold in 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u312	A respectable president. It is often included in such a brief summary of the main focus of the Continent during the discussion. I'd like to grab some points. First of all about Land Hospital. Of course, it will not be overlooked that since this government took over health care expenses, and most of all for the Land Hospital, there was a huge increase. In solid prices, health expenses have increased by some 40 billion per year in solid prices. In the following year, the expenditures are about 40 billion higher than those of the government. Much of this has slipped into trust in the Land Hospital. Much of the concern is that the Landsspike is being thrown with a tilt, as it were, in spite of this and is being taken for some sort of organizational change. But as secretary of finance, and here are many members of the budget for the discussion, I must ask: "Do you think it's normal, and I'm sure, after the Council has decided what financial rights will come into the discussion and say, "Look, it's just billions of dollars that we have to add?" This is a fundamental law on public financial matters. This is a fundamental factor in the implementation of public funds, in terms of government matters, that financial resources, such as those obtained from the Council of the Council, should be adhered to. If there are any other messages from the council, they are not only to the Hospital but to all the institutions, that it is not important to do the law. Of course, with the bank sale, I can't have any statements as to whether it's going to be possible to sell banks. But if there's a proposal from the Bank Office, and then we bring the case in to the council then the process will begin at least And that's what I want to do. This, in the end, depends on market circumstances and other factors that we do not control all how they plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u313	Mr. President. A brief review of the discussion a year ago, when we were discussing the land hospital's position, it was clear when the budget was closed in 2019 that there would be a problem with the hospital business. There was absolutely clear and many words in this hall. But as long as it's the highest. Ministers and the government claim to be putting great emphasis on the health - care system, which is cut down in the health system and especially in the hospital. Talking about the billions who go to a new hospital may not be easy to talk about as a better service to patients. It's just not like that. The land hospital is faced with a very serious problem. In case of dead bodies, the hospital will have 4 billion dollars. heads into the next year and needs to cut down the billions if nothing has to be done and the maintenance measures taken by the National Hospital are like this. There's a bit of a rookie support. It's a special means of support and division. This is a maintenance of medicine costs. They're going to reduce research and imaging. There's a hold on product, equipment and software purchases and they're going to cancel the scheduler's schedule. The problem of the Land Hospital, which calculates in less than 1.5 billion a year, is due to a miscalculation in the form of collective contracts, but not all seem to agree. So I ask the highest. Minister: Do you still have a legal dispute between the hospital and the Ministry of finance, or have you come to the assessment of the pay that the Landsituaries feel is for them and have called for correction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u314	A respectable president. I don't know the position of this entire company regarding the payment of pay money, but it's just gonna have to take its turn. I'm sure there's something to exchange, and I don't think there's a conclusion to which I'm aware of at least However, it is not uncommon for institutions to feel that the pay force is partially unsettled, and this will be considered. There are fixed guidelines for improving the pay force according to the type of collective agreements. Chapter 23 of the budget is about hospital service, and it is easy to see when you consider the entire section and that it is important and has been over many years to improve the quality of health care. It is about 110 billion that cut total budgets in 2020 compared to 2017 when the government succeeded, with 110 billion increase in expenses. 35% of them have gone into medical procedures, so I firmly refuse to have men running a course where it is not seen to have been needed to meet health - care status. We've been on the ever-growing road to face a call for additional donations. I believe, however, that there is much too little discussion about how the budget works, whether or not we are getting maximal efficiency, and in that discussion the debate on the role of the private sector is mixed up against the public. It is where I feel that the budget should take on additional roles, go to the sewing of the huge contribution of the state's money to health has been useful in improving the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u315	A respectable president. Let us briefly review three points at the end of the discussion. First of all, it's the Landsspians, what I've already pointed out in our discussion, that the amount of money we receive in the budget is unexplained, a sort of guess. We do not know whether these are really right according to service requirements or efficiency. Who's to say that the Landspians are in business, not in need of money? We cannot answer that question, we will never get that information. We're just supposed to sign the amount of money that comes from the Ministry of finance without further explaining why this is the right thing to do with any other reason. Then there is the disposal of the banks. It is, in effect, a reminder that I would like to utter: Not until the report shows how we have managed to submit the General Report. We need to look into the situation and know if there are any other factors that we need to consider in regard to banks and markets. It didn't go so well last time. We need to be sure that we have met the requirements, the last mistake we made, and the development since then. Let's take these things now, because I have one word on paper for the second round, which I look forward to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u316	A respectable president. It's a big deal, actually. A senator enters, which is the way we value individual health issues. For example, there has been a long history of working with a coordinated cost analysis in which individual hospital personnel have suffered losses. If I remember correctly, this is called DRG analysis, exactly what's normal for a job. If we finish the induction of this arrangement, we will be rewarded for our performance. I think that's very desirable. However, I feel that there is a worthy mission for the Board of Shepherds and the case of the World Health Committee to further our consideration and to assist us, the Commission, to identify weaknesses that may be involved in this order and in the whole project of our own. I have a feeling we could use our money better. That's how I feel about it because it's been so intense. It is difficult to control an organization as huge as the land hospital is. Of course, I believe everyone there is working to the best of their ability. But there is a constant need for the practical use of the funds. With the banks, I hear what I'm talking about. A senator says. I do not agree that this assessment requires a report of the General Commission, but it is very important that people be aware of how the financial markets have changed. Special reports have been published, and the result is very simple. We are only in a whole other world with all the financial systems, as is true throughout Europe. If they're going to try to prevent what happened here in 2008, if that's the main objective, I think we've made the necessary legal adjustments and, in fact, there are other prime reports on the Constitution that will help in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u317	A respectable president. One word for the second: Encouragement. An encouragement for the Ministry to work with the council in order to complete the legal introduction to public finance. It's just that way. There's a plan for induction, so we'll come back and take it together. Let us suggest how to complete it, whether it is possible, work with the council, with a presentation for the council. Let's start with the details where this exists. The DRG analysis exists, the land hospital has been using it for quite some time. In some grammatical areas, there are really not major changes each year, e.g. in the court language field. There is very little evidence of policy development and additional projects between years, a little information technology maybe, a renewal of equipment or databases that are very easy to distinguish from costs and benefits. It is even possible to enter the box, where information is provided for many years or decades about the cost of operating, and for each expense in that area. Start where the easy points are, where data are available and can easily be printed out what it looks like. Also, handle larger tasks. They don't have to be very precise. This is about the costs, that's about all the cost, otherwise it wouldn't be possible to make any suggestions for money. The benefit analysis is more difficult, however, bring about approximately a resounding analysis of words, if not accurate, may be in the range of 1,5,50 million, or about 100 million. It does not necessarily have to be accurate at first. We learn by doing so, but we can't learn anything if we don't do anything. Let's start with this, and we'll do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u318	A respectable president. I just take this encouragement to make my statement that I have long served as a spokesman for the Council and the Council of the Council to provide the European Commission with a legal basis. There are so many things we can do better. We've been discussing health issues here, but there's just so many of the state's business where we could have a better perspective. Sometimes you've talked about developing cooperation in this regard. What is the impression that the Parliament has on the use of funds for developing cooperation? It is good to know that members of the Parliament are now following up on it, doing field research, following the money, and seeing firsthand what is happening, how the funds work. We'll take relatively little time to discuss this. I'll take this case at random. We also have many institutions in which there is no government, no independent government, and perhaps often too little contact with the council, or, if that is being replaced, even with the agencies that are over the relevant institutions on what is being done in the business of the relevant institutions. Service contracts are one of my main points at the moment. We would have to put forth effort to record all such agreements and link all paid bills with contracts that have been underlying. There we are the submarines of other nations. We've been doing business together. This has led to great success. We need to continue that course, and we simply have to make the arrangements that make people feel as if we are using the money that runs to the State to do the work. It will only happen if we are able to handle the items and get into the stitches and understand how they are taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u319	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The financier of this final story in 1st. I agree with the minister, much of this discussion is developing for the better. I'm a special interested person on the economic side of the budget, and I'm glad that there's just about more discussion now about the economic budget than it used to be. I have criticized the too optimistic reasons for these financial laws, in fact, as if it had been a problem during the last 12◯18 months in financial programmes. I hope I'm wrong. I hope that as expected in the Economic Organization's economy, economic employers will still be, but I fear that this will not be the case even if it is not the end of the world, although the economy will only be colder than it is expected. In many respects, the economy is at that point that we need to consider at the highest level. A minister came in, lest we increase our expenses too much, that we do not press more than we look forward to the expansion. There's a lot we need to know about, like, how we do it. We're going to measure what we're going to do. We have overindulges in the budget and in the follow-up of budgets in terms of both the increase in budgets and as well as the importance of what we get for the money we already have in the public business. It may become clear in the health - care system, in the vast increase in expenses there, that as we watch the development of a waiting list, the development of our service to the citizens of this country, we do not see the results we should see in view of the vast expansion that has taken place. I would have liked to see other emphasis on the budget bill. I'd have liked to see a lot more put in my investments, but I'd say it's the best. Minister when it comes to discussing the sale of state property in banks. I hope we see the signal at this council that the first steps will be taken. [[The president calls.]] I think we can use that money much better in the construction of infrastructure than we can continue to possess so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u320	A respectable president. I read in the media that I had said yesterday that I believed that the economic forecast would follow. I don't remember saying that, but I talked them much more about building the budget on public fortunes and not trying to make up our own. This is not because we have so much confidence in the economy, but we feel that there needs to be some reliable, neutral standard. There is not much difference between the predictions that we can look to. These range from 1% to 1% in economy in the next year to 2.6%. But you're absolutely right about what you're talking about. Senator, there's no way this is going to work. It seems to me that economics are not so accurate and economists are not merely predicting the future. They are still predicting the economic growth of this year's beginning. They are still wondering again, how economic growth seemed for the first quarter. This is not necessarily to be expected to be exactly what is said in national interest. What matters to me in this regard, however, is how unique the situation is. During this economic growth, we've been doing business over the past few years. We have improved the status of the nation's population, so it has become better than ever in the republican history. We've run a government fund with leftovers and paid off debts, and we've made a way of making it so that when we see the slower growth, we're in a position that we can handle without starting a huge debt and business balance still exists, so this is the point, in economic terms, a position that describes a stronger and more stable economy than we've ever seen before. I may be able to fit in with the cost development and the investments in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u321	Mr. President. I can agree with that with the highest. Even though we are going through some adjustment, as we often know before, a minister of many things is just extraordinary. We need to keep in mind that the Icelandic economy is a very swinging economy. We have one of the most swinging economys in the Western world. Perhaps because of our coin, which regularly undermines the competitiveness of our export roads and amplifies the swing, which means that we need more caution in planning and making money. I think we also need to improve our foundation, but don't look only to one public estimate. We also need to look to the Navy bank and the analysts and choose the appropriate safe criteria. However, it brings to mind other factors that we have a great deal of activity, and that is the eco-efficiency-corrected product of a government fund, which I think is very important that we reach just to gain more firmness in public finances so that we are not adding excessively to our spending so that they will not be prolonged in normal economic conditions, natural fluctuations in the Icelandic economy, and also make more sure that we can make room for the development of necessary investments. It's what I think, when we look back, after this economic season that's coming to an end, that we should grieve what we've allowed the interiors to dribble, how much we haven't kept an investment level enough. The estimate is now that 3,350 billion people are missing from all over the country's road system, the maintenance of public buildings, and so on. We still can't reach our tails there, and that's where we have to do better. We would have liked to see quite a lot more money in our investments in the budgets we see here, but the more important it is that we do get rid of possessions that are not vital for government funds, as well as in the financial system, to reduce the holding of property there and make significant use of that funds to subsidies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u322	A respectable president. I'll be back with what. Senator. I believe it would be a wise arrangement to dispose of financial assets and move to another kind of structure in the country. In terms of the economic fluctuation corrected, it seems to me that in some places it has become the focus of the economy-corrected recovery, even over a longer period of time. We have discussed this before, and this has been considered, before the administration of public financial laws, such as this idea as many others, that it is not all defective. I mentioned earlier that we were still getting numbers on the subject of economic growth at the beginning of the year. These figures may change, and when you plan to aim for the recovery of the economy-corrected numbers, you don't always have a solid foundation. That's one of the things you can keep in mind. I remember a few semesters ago sitting on meetings, on one hand with the Secret Bank, who thought that the eco-efficiency corrected were somewhere at zero, even in negative living, but that same day I was sitting with the World Bank that said, "No, we seem to be eco-efficiency-corrected to be on the right side of zero. I'll just mention it as an example that these are not the most accurate facts which will be exactly next year. It's been a big part of the discussion here, at least ... betweenme andw. A senator, and I'm certainly not avoiding any further discussion about this. It's a huge deal that we're going to continue developing these meters that we're going to use to set the spending levels, income schemes, and other major decisions properly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u323	A respectable president. We've been discussing the budget and the highest. Secretary of finance just walked in on the calculator. I'm just saying he was talking about a calculator I heard calculated an increase from the new tax step and what it turned out. What I don't understand in this context is -- It's great to be making a new tax step, which is the best thing - that it would have been wishing that what it brought would go directly to those who really need it. However, it's like an illusion because it's the same time we see 5,000 bucks. They are taken with the other hand from this portion of tax. The coin disappears with a person's discount, as it lowers. The calculator is very impressive in that it tells us exactly what is left of it. It's very small. But it's a public calculator who forgets to take it - and I think it should be in there - all the increases in state, radio bills, carbohydrate costs, garbage disposal costs, everything goes up. Would it not be fair to have it inside this calculator? It should be possible and would, of course, be the most correct thing we did because otherwise we're just saying other things to people out there, and I know that out there are people waiting and hoping, and they really need these taxes, but unfortunately they have to be told the truth to these people. It doesn't come back next year, and unfortunately, I'm also afraid it doesn't work out in the next year because it's wrong. All these expenditures that both the community and the state place on these individuals that already do not have a knife and a spoon are to be calculated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u324	A respectable president. I don't think that's true at all. A senator here says that tax reforms and other compensations we're measuring for are all - and more - taken from people with other remunerations. Let me give you one example. The health benefits of the social security will increase over the years according to the expected changes in ratings, i.e. The expected changes in salary or index price are the reference, the higher. This happens on January 1. For those who take pay under collective contracts, pay will have been slightly increased and will increase over the next year. I'm not going to pick up any monopolys that blend into that image, but whether it is, improvements and wages are being made for an increase. The types of tents that change will increase less than the expected inflation. As a result, there is a financial growth, and this is before tax declines. Similarly, there seems to be some misunderstanding. A senator's reduction in personality makes the tax fall, but the calculator we're talking about. Of course, a senator reminded him of the changes in personality. The personality modifications are set to ensure that the tax limit becomes secure into the future so that the only correct conclusion to these questions can be asked by a financial committee, e.g. to improve social security costs next year, to make changes in the cost of money gains, or to buy money next year. Then I think it's absolutely conclusive that they're going to get a positive result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u325	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers, but I cannot agree with him because I have lived in this system and I know how this system works. I can give him a simple example. The discussion revealed that 5,300 poor people were paid at a rate of $300,000 a.m. per month. This is taken up from tax returns. But this doesn't tell us a story because this system has become so steep and stupid that it's not the right number. They can't be right. How do I know that? I know that because inside these numbers, there's a pension fund. They contain pay, which is less than a year later. A man who has said he had $350,000. a month's salary last year may have been less than 300,000 because 50,000 dollars. in a month you will take it a year later. It is incomprehensible in the entire technological age we live in that this system of things is still a people such as it is merely telling straight and clean. This shows that it's a long time, and a hell of a lot. The secretary of finance should agree with me on, revising the entire social security system so as to make it more beneficial that the people living in this system know exactly what they can get from day to day. It can be done. We can pay taxes instead. We should just as well be able to have real numbers of these things. I think one of the things we're supposed to get into is to simplify this system and make sure those who are supposed to live in it can do it day-to- day, like, have to. not to calculate future prices. economists cannot even calculate inflation that was preconceived or preconceived. How on earth should sick people be able to calculate in advance inflation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-13-4.u326	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says we should be better informed. In some places, I still feel that I lack a lot of money. We have often discussed the effects of tax development over time on interest rates, both in labour markets and in social security reforms, in pensioners, and in biofuels. To improve the quality of this subject, I took the initiative at the time that we began one major global circulation of the development of the 1991 skunks of Icelanders. The results appeared to us in the history of income. The book history is a unique information site, at least on European level, if not on a global scale, where we have the facts about Iceland's biographies back to 1991. We can break up with income - handed groups and divide by age, we can visit the country or its capital. Similarly, we can look for genders. We can look at those who have real estate and how their benefits have developed or those in a rented market. We can ponder the situation of those who are alone or of those who live together. The result is very happy in the history of income, as it happens, that all earners have improved their interests. In terms of the reformal classes we've only been dealing with, there are two very pronounced ones; on the other hand, social security improvements have been growing as a proportion of people's forwards have been growing, i.e. The improvement factor has increased very rapidly in recent years, it has included Making sure older citizens have enjoyed faster biographies in recent years than other groups. It's also very striking, how many people come with a much better pension rights than they used to be in retirement. We're supposed to keep on doing this kind of work, and I'll agree with it. A senator's job is to understand their rights. Other than that, I seem to have come to the end of the day, and I thank her again for the discussion.
