ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u1	It is scheduled that there will be a recession at a conference since the clock. 12:30, or approximately, till then. 14 today, this is for a council meeting and a meeting at the Gaming Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u2	A respectable president. I present the Committee's opinion of changing parts of the General and Education Committee on a bill for the Cape Town Treaty so-called for international insurance rights of mobile equipment and air equipment accounting. It's on the roof. 1627, case No. 415. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of Transport and Civil Affairs at Bryndís Þorvaldur and Heiðar People's Þorsteinsson of the National Affairs of Justice, the Ástríður of Scheving Thorsteinsson, Karl Alvarsson and the Kristjánsdóttir of Francis Másdóttir of Isavia ohf., Sigrún Henríetta Markúsdóttir and Bryndís, of Syngætteur and Bryndi Bachmann from the county of the capital. The committee also received a review from Istavia. The main objective of the Cape Town Convention is to facilitate the financing of trade between countries with mobile equipment, as it is called. In fact, the treaty was presented in connection with a famous and still controversial cohesion of WOW air in Keflavík by the shortest. In other words, this contract has not yet gained legal value in Iceland, but it is assumed by this bill that it will be. The bill suggests that Iceland must be validated by the Cape Town Convention on international insurance rights of mobile equipment and air equipment accounting, as the case has been called. The bill also suggests that the terms of the Convention on Air Forces to be attached to it should have the legal value in this country in accordance with the declaration made by the Iceland Treaty. However, it is not intended to change current rights registration rules, i.e. to the extent that such rights fall beyond the scope of the law. I'm not going to read up all the committee's opinion of induction and implementation and adapt to this recent contract or air travel law. I refer to the committee's opinion on this matter. However, I would like to state that in the treatment of the case before the Commission, there was some discussion of the benefits of pilots in Iceland if Iceland becomes a member of this contract. The agreement will, in their opinion, and in all the estimates that have come to this likely reduce the cost of commercial aircraft and no increase in government expenses. In addition, it has been said that fliers have declared that Iceland's involvement will, as a result, have a significant positive impact on their financing pay on the price of air landings and the use of air transport items. The fliers clearly declared that the bill would be accomplished when the committee requested their position on it, and it would be to add the favor of Icelandic flight drivers to the financing of airships and airships. The majority agree that the bill contains the current benefits. The committee suggests minor adjustments to references to chapters 2, 8, and 9. The bill as well as the word changes on paragraphs 1, 3 and 12. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes I mentioned and found in the Senate document. Árnadóttir Kolbönnadótir was away from the case, Valdimarsson Steindordarsson was also absent from the case, but he signed a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the committee, the writer Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Birgir Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Halla Gunnarsdóttir, Hjálmar Hafliðason Heathson, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u3	A respectable president. I have here a story for the Committee's study of a greater part of the General and Education Committee on the bill for the implementation of personal information in a law enforcement program. The case is on the subject. 1681. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Sveinsson Kjartan Ólafsson and Hinrika Sandra Ingimundardóttir from the Ministry of Justice, Bryndís Kristjánsdóttir and Þórunn Sigurðardóttir from the state's tax attorney, Gísli Rúnar Gíslason, Íris Ösp Ingjaldsdóttir In taxand Karen Bragadóttir from customs Þórður, and Páll Heiðar Halldórsson from Peron's Protection. The committee received reviews from Perlon protection, the government tax investigator and customs manager. This bill suggests the implementation of the overall laws on personal protection and the implementation of personal information from the authorities in the field of punishment. The bill also involves the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council's Directive from 27 April 2016, the protection of individuals in terms of the processing of the laws of the Member States on the role of personal data in preventing, investigating, investigating, suing, or administering criminal offenses or fulfilling criminal law laws and free sharing of such information and the falling of the Council's framework, i.e. Police order. The Commission was most concerned with the definition of the competent authorities, who they were, and the sharing of personal information with other public members or private members in the law enforcement program or for other purposes. The commission, which is quite long and thorough and in several chapters that I do not intend to read in all of these, covers explanations, fields of values, exchange of information in police purposes and sharing information for other purposes, access to personal information, penalties and regulations. I refer to the Council of Parliament, which contains the Commission opinion, but I would like to note that the greater part points out that this is not really EEA induction but is the legalization of the directive according to Iceland's commitments on the basis of the Schengen Cooperative Work. The majority suggest that the removal should be carried out, as such inclusion criteria are applicable only to the types taken up in the EEA Convention. At the Committee's meetings, a consideration was given to removing the 2nd Team by the 37th paragraph. The bill that presents a new article in police law, No. 90/1996, that the processing of personal information according to the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information and the processing of personal information into the law of law enforcement. There was a view that personality protection and processing laws were not relevant for the implementation of law enforcement practices, as well as that the rules of the bill were therefore intended to provide special support for such activities. The committee was told that the regulations of police law also stated that police administration works within the set of laws on personal protection and processing of personal information, e.g. Article IV. The section of the law on the services of the police. This will allow all the personal information done on recruitment and commands to be continued on the basis of their laws and not the bill. Therefore, in view of this, the larger part does not consider to be a factor adjustment of the 2nd team to be 37. gr. The bill. The majority of the committee suggests that the word changes are consistent, adaptable, or adjusted in many numbers and follow the changes to a special Senate document. The Committee suggests that this bill will be agreed with these changes. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the circumstances, Páll Magnússon, Jónsson Ingónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u4	A respectable president. We'd like to explain only why I'm not at the committee party at the greater part, despite all the basic support. The matter is of utmost importance. In my opinion, there's a big misunderstanding that police are doing everything automatically right, so they're saying a little bit. Over the years, I have been told that there has been very serious failures within the police agencies. There is nothing else to be expected, these are human institutions that operate as different from any other human. There is nothing else to be expected, therefore there must be a very clear and good legal issue around the way police agencies, Marshals, and other police districts are involved. Over the years, you have heard rather unpleasant stories about how information is treated, especially around a well - known computer system called LALE. Well, it depends on who you are asking about, but at least I find it hard to believe that so many stories come out that are good for one another, without any foot being in front of them. I don't think it's likely. Happily, however, we are in the EEA and, fortunately, the European Union has a very impressive personal protection program, not quite perfect, as it might be, but incredibly elegant. They turn, even. to engulf the entire mentality of law enforcement that was once committed in a preliminary law of the new personal protection laws. Comments were made on Persian protection in the matter. I think it's right to mention it and complain about one thing that there's a personality protection that says that there's only been limited consultation with the Agency. I think it's really weird. I had the same experience in another language recently that I learned at a meeting. The General and Education Committee, as agreed, did not seem to have been of any concern. And in this case it seems to have been very limited. I find that very disturbing because it's about personal information. That's the subject of the bill, that's what it's all about. I don't like to see them practice that it's made to the police, which it certainly does, but not Personal Protection, when these are obviously the two people most likely to look at in the processing of the bill. I don't think this is the kind of work I do, and I wish it wasn't like this. Personal protection also makes material comments at 3 mg. Section 3. and a team 5. Count 37. g. The majority meet Peritoneal Protection in the past but disagrees with the 5th army, respectively. For this reason, it is understandable, but when the matter was taken out of the committee, I myself was not entirely convinced that these explanations were good enough. I'm not yet. I'm kind of on the yellow button there, like you say in the house. However, I understand both viewpoints and feel that they both have some significance. Also, the majority take into account indications of strange speech in one place, in 14,◯16. g., and further to the Persian Guardian's comment on Article 24. which is about changing the wording of a specific law so that it takes into account the reality that the police deal with in their work. They have come to meet it. Then there's one thing I don't think it's necessary, and I hope it's not necessary, but that's where I understand both views again, that's about the fourth number 34. in the bill. It has a regulations authority to exclude an information system set up for 6 May 2016 from the registry. Operational registry is the activity in a computer system that lists what is being done, if anyone turned down e.g. a person is listed as a person who has looked up a person; if the person changes something, it is recorded who changed it and sometimes in what way. This operation log is in my opinion, and with my experience, it is extremely important for people with information to handle it with care. I've found it helpful to have personal information like radioactive waste, not to touch it or get close to it unless you have to, and then do it for a short time, and not to be experimenting with it beyond what is necessary. But there's just not everyone with that attitude, and it's very easy when you work at an institution that protects citizens from many serious incidents of rationalizing your own use of personal information because someone who does not intend to abuse personal information does not suspect himself as a person, of course not. It is just a perfectly normal mental attitude, but it is inevitable to contradict the spirit and purpose of personal protection, and most such personal protection accidents will not be the result of the fact that someone has evil intentions but because some mistake is made, often because someone does not approach personal information and their treatment by thinking that radioactive waste is involved. The commission is partly to meet this Peritoneal indication by setting the rules of the setting of the sunset instead of having this as a direct directive authority in the bill itself. That change is positive, and I come to support it. On the other hand, I'm here to vote against the provisional principle itself because I feel that this operation log should be in the law. I know there's been a computer system through the time that doesn't have this operation registration, and I know it may take time and effort to fix it. But since I'm a programmer when I'm not a senator, I also know that this is a typical software activity that gets to sit down because it's not Korean for how the software itself works. He is not Greek to make the police themselves, or any other agency, do their part. Security issues are another thing I know is actually taken much more seriously now than was in the old days. Usually, an activity that does not directly affect users of the computer system or software will be allowed to sit down at expense and work every day. It's gonna cost money, and it's gonna take a job, and I think it needs to be done right away. As a precaution, I would say that having a sunset dress for 2026 simply makes me feel too far. That's seven years, and that's a very long time. There's a lot to program in seven years, and I'm afraid that this approach, although better than the bill in its original form, does not provide enough incentive for a computer system that today should have an operation log but does not have it. For these reasons, I have doubts about this. After reviewing the bill and the evidence after the committee's release, I'm a little more positive about the case, and it's a very important matter, and it's definitely improving, based on how the information management of law enforcement has been maintained in Iceland so far. She hasn't been a creditor, I'm just saying, and it shouldn't surprise anyone. The treatment of personal information in many parts of the community has not been pleasing until rather recently and not yet everywhere, but now. But it gets better, even. ... withprogramms like this, with laws like this and the development that I expect to become on a wide range of computer systems to meet the standards of the law properly. I just wanted to explain these questions, but as I say, I still support the whole case, even with the innuendo that I believe is there, but most importantly, I just want to admit that I don't like Persian protection saying that there were limited consultations with the Agency in making a bill directly involved in the process of personal information - in the law of justice. That's exactly what personal information is collected, sensitive data. There's something for like that. The purpose of law enforcement, protection and security for which we need to be especially careful. On the contrary, we should give no discount of the protection of personal information. It's the most important thing that we're clear. That is why I am disappointed that the attitude of the bill somehow did not involve discussing with Perone Protection. I think it's amazing that a bill like this is submitted without proper consultation with the good agency. But I'm going to make this work, a respectable president, and I'm looking forward to seeing things settled at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u5	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party for a change in administrative law on freedom of expression and freedom of silence. This is part of a number of changes that are being made in the approval of the Generalis at the Parliament's resolution proposal for Iceland's legal rights for the protection of expression and information freedom. The bill suggests changes in administrative law, which provides a detailed basis for the confidentiality of public employees. The primary objective is to clarify the information required of silence, an important requirement for freedom of expression. At the same time, it is suggested that laws on the freedom of expression by public employees, which includes the principle that they in general have the freedom to express themselves publicly on matters related to their work. The committee's meetings discussed several aspects of the bill, such as the objective of the bill, the set range of values, the clarity of penalties, the limitations and absence of confidentiality, and the development of some changes in the activities of the Commission, which I believe are important to explain here from the Pontu Allegment, to which it is now closely and thoroughly explanatory. The Committee found that the value range of the bill was not clear enough and that the bill could be understood so that it would take only people in the routine recruitment relationship as well as special persons in the working relationship, in the new section of the law, section X. The importance of the bill reaching all persons in an unorthodox recruitment or working relationship and of an independent contractor who may have information or data on law violations or the stigmatistic behaviour associated with those who are earned without the individual having to be an employer in the standard sense. It can, for example, be used. applies to employees hired to work within companies and institutions, employees of companies sent to perform jobs for another employer, etc., but may have data or information about persons other than their conventional employer. The bill suggests that anyone working in a state or a community will be bound to a confidentiality of information marked on the basis of law or other regulations, or if otherwise it is necessary to keep it confidential in order to protect significant public interests or personal interests. It is also suggested that when a government votes for counseling or aiding a specially trained person, a contract should state that his confidentialness is in accordance with the guidelines of the X chapter of the Law. According to one report, due to the regulations of the bill, the regulations of the general penal law will lead to a legalization of all persons working in and out of public administration, whether in government or community administration, as well as in government agencies, ministry, administrative committees, social legislation, or any other government. Thus, it does not matter whether it is a full - time job or a part - time job, which is extremely important, and much was discussed in the committee. It also includes contractors if this is stated in a contract. According to the Commission, the value range of the bill is marketd by government employees in the employment contract, as well as by all special persons in the work relationship, which includes those who render government service to citizens as per a service contract. Therefore, about the violations of others, such as employees, who cover and abuse confidential information, there are other legal requirements. A figure of silence was discussed in the treatment of the matter and needed to be made changes. It is suggested that the information related to confidentiality be made clear and uniform, i.e. that anyone who works in a state or a community is bound to a confidentiality of information marked on the basis of law or other rules or when it is otherwise necessary to keep it confidential in order to protect significant public interests or personal interests. This article includes these interests, which fall under the obligation of silence, as listed in nine numbers, such as State Security or Defense Information, Communications with other countries and institutions, economicly important interests of the State, etc. The 8th is suggested that the terms of the arrangement fall within the individual's own or financial resources, which is fair and normal to conceal. The same figure includes the fact that unless it relates closely to the confidential information of the day of birth, place of birth, social security, and etc. However, there was an indication from Peritoneal Protection that this information is considered to be personal information that is under the law of personal protection and that its implementation should apply to all their principles of law. Personal protection suggests that we are listed in Article 8 of the 1st. improve the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. It is also suggested that, in addition, it will be forbidden to provide information on a home decided to be hidden on the basis of law on the law on the home and residence, because this is so, in some cases, when there are severely sensitive individuals or persons involved in such activities that the home needs to be hidden. There's a special legal warrant for that. The committee subscribed to these observations made by Peritoneal Guard as well as by national records and made changes in them. A great deal of discussion was made about the clarity of penalties, and it is necessary that penalties be made clear. We received on the Board of Directors and Control Committee a visit from the district attorney who gave us several tips on the matter. It was said that it would have to be clear about indiscretions on the other hand and intent. The district attorney's review suggested reference to 141. Penalties, when intent has not been made, can cause problems. The law does not specifically address a crime of silence, making it a condition that is largely and repetitious or negligent in a job and that the State prosecutor believes that although an inadvertent silent silent matter may be subject to the directive, such a reference in the bill may be blurred and subject to doubt. It was pointed out that the Lawgiver's purpose to allow an inadvertent violation of silence to be a penalty would be more clearly stated in the appropriate legal requirements. The committee agrees with these views and suggests that unless there is gross and repetitive neglect or neglect of a job, there is no penalties against confidentiality. If there is no intention of doing so, punishment may be punished under the law of the law of the law. This article suggests the violation of non - official personnel on confidentiality, i.e. Experts who are employed under contracts, protect fines or prisons up to one year, and believe that the criminal rights of this article are not clear enough when it comes to the divorce of a general penal law that only penalties are a special authority in the law. Hence, the committee suggests that in addition to the article, there is a separation of deliberate or gross indecision. The limitations and termination of confidentiality are recommended, but it suggests that governments may be allowed to share confidential information to a third person. It is also stated that only the person with the interests of silence is intended to protect or the person directly involved in the information is a town to agree. The agreement to provide personal information is based on the personal protection and processing of personal information. This consent was discussed, and it was referred to that there must be free and freeness of charge, the approval provided by the writer. The Law on Personal Protection and the Treatment of Personal Information distinguishes individuals' approval for the processing of public identity information and such sensitive personal information. In the case of sensitive personal information, the specific agreement of the registered person for one or more objectives is required and is responsible to demonstrate that a registered person has approved the implementation of personal information according to the conditions 7 and 8. personal protection protocol. The committee agrees with these observations by Peritoneal protection, and the importance of approval meets these requirements. The Committee suggested that the U.S. attorney general's opinion that according to some incident, the police need to share confidential information to a third party without any agreement. That's what we're talking about in criminal matters. In criminal affairs there are defenders and jurists who often get data, and then they don't, to settle the issue, that all parties must be agreed. Such a sharing is required on the basis of legal authority. The committee agrees with these views and points out that when there is no agreement, there is a need to be established and to be necessary and for legitimate purposes. So the Committee suggests that such information is permitted to be passed on to a third person by a national authority or on the basis of a legal authority. Because in criminal affairs it is often very difficult to get consent. These are discussed only on the publication of statistical evidence and the proposed changes. The Commission suggested indications from Iceland's Federal Bank on the use of the term 'Counsel' in the bill, in view of the fact that in a financial and economic task force to reimburse the law on official financial and economic activities. has been pointed out to be inaccurate. Therefore, the task force suggested that it be removed from that law. The committee agrees that these indications are necessary, but the wording is used in several terms of the bill and thus suggests that the bill needs to be adjusted accordingly. It is suggested that any who serve on the behalf of a state or a community may not be allowed to take advantage of their position to obtain information that is confidential and that is not relevant to his work. Of course, this is important. Personal information needs to be protected so that it is not to be obtained without a warrant or for a reason. For the Committee, it suggested that this article does not specifically say that there is a criminal abuse of the situation and that this may be punishable at the time of the trial. 139. gr. The penalties for government employees. There's a lot of cases in the system. If the committee thinks it is right to respond to this, it suggests that such reference is added. Some were discussed about the independence of rural society. The Committee suggested that according to the wording on the 3rd st team. The bill may conclude that the Regulation should be a precise model for local communities, but it states that the independence of local communities and their freedom to determine their own rules when it comes to the safe handling of confidential information. The Commission agrees with these views and believes that it is better to inform local society about confidential matters by a secretary. The instructions may then take into account the Regulation, but at the same time, they reflect the scope of local society's sentences and suggest a word change accordingly. This was suggested by several changes to synchronize terms of the management of Croncies, etc. Finally, a number of tips from a number of relevant sources came up here with a lack of consultation, which is mandatory in the management of an overall organization, e.g. in the labour market, and others, when preparing such a bill. The committee agrees with the importance of having such obligations always respected. Then the Committee also agrees with the National Institute of Social Affairs that a clear line on confidentiality and the interests it is designed to defend is designed to strengthen freedom of expression and information rights and that the bill is taking a step in that direction. There are very important bills that came from this committee, and are still on my way, and therefore a little too sorry, and it appeared before the committee, how little time the committee had to negotiate all these bills. The bills bear some evidence of it and need to make numerous changes, apparently at high speeds. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Sæmundsson was absent from the case, but under the opinion of the committee, he writes the article and also the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Bribbur Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, and Hjálmar Hafliðason Heathsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u6	A respectable president. I wanted to come in to some of the things about this good thing. Maybe you should just start by thanking the management and monitoring committee for good work on the case, there were important changes in the course, and that I'm on top of the whole case. I have to disagree. A member of the council and the chairman of the case who said that this case was being handled quickly. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir mentioned that this seemed to have been working quickly. You see, I was appointed to the board of directors in 2012, who won this case and helped Páll Hreinsson develop the bill, and it can really be said that this case was stuck in the Ministry since 2012, which must be called a rather difficult birth. The fact that there are many problems in the case is more evident than the fact that the matter has been done too quickly. When matters are done too slowly, they are prone to collect some unpleasant points in view of the story that follows, and our understanding of this class has increased substantially in the past ten years, the best of them. What I really wanted to do about it is to put the background into perspective. As indicated in the committee's opinion, this is about explaining the purpose and content of a vow of silence that is very important because of the strictness of silence, especially to governments, the importance of defending individual rights. However, in many cases where people are working within public institutions, they may be problems. When we began to look at it about seven years ago, it was found that it was, I don't remember a lot of people, but it was somewhere around 1,100,170 different regulations in Icelandic law. Many of them even contradicted one another, and it was really unfair for any government worker to have a clear understanding of the confidentialness of his obligation to any matter. Which made people even reluctant to perform service for fear of violating a code of silence that they may not have fully understood or that they simply refrained from doing anything in a particular group of languages, which is understandable when people have many conflicting and complex regulations about confidentiality. To make it clearer and more specific about the subject of silence is just as much about simplifying all of this and making it possible for public employees to know for any certainty what is expected of them. This bill goes very far into that package. Although this is the case with dozens of regulations of silence, there are no rules of silence for certain professions, e.g. A doctor, who is normal to be slightly dilated and more specific. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I just wanted these things to come out that we're explaining, that we're trying to simplify things so people can understand what's expected of them. I look forward to seeing this situation finally become a law because I've been waiting for it for eight or nine years, and it's amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his input. I just want to respond to those words about quickness. Perhaps this is mainly because the group appointed by the prime minister in March 2018 is being developed to cover reformal legislation in the field of expression, media, and information freedom, and was among these. hidden to review the bill that had been sent in. Their case showed something that because these were a lot of primes, many things, the group would have liked to have had more time. These were the words that Dr. Hreinsson Pilson returned to the Ministry in his day and may have assumed that this was not a complete bill, at least. were moved by the committee to cover over and to add points, perhaps what the committee meant when they there said that this was done in a hurry. But it's okay, the bill's here. It's very necessary, very good and urgent. That answer, in fact, does not involve a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u8	Mr. President. Thank you for this explanation. Understandably, it may take a while to dust things out, and of course the committee needed a good time to make sure that this cleaning would be more perfect. But it is clear that the very few who may have been at that cleaning has now been released by the administration and monitoring committee. Thank you for the good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u9	President. The Commission has discussed the matter and received its meeting with Eiríkur Jónsson from the University of Iceland, Oddur Gunnarsson of the Ministry of Presidency, Skúli Gunuga's Gunnlaugsdóttir from the European Union of Iceland, Ebba Schram from Reykjavík, Þórir Hauksson from the News Office of Studies 2, Sciences and Hafsteinn, Jóhann Þórðarson Eiðsson, Davíð Rúnar Þorláksson of the Environment Agency, Sif from the Snæbjörn Nature Protection Agency, Hjálmar of the United States of Iceland, Þór Þórhallur Eggert from the Department of Legal Office of the Tryggvi, Givaissson, Director of Human Services, Álfjörstjörstjörstjörðursson, Djörjörðursson of the United States, Djörðursson of the Office of Iceland and the Peoplestörður. The Committee received reviews from Iceland's National Archives, the EEA, the National Institute of Development of Iceland, the European Union of Iceland, the United States of Iceland, the European Union of Iceland, the Óli Eiðsson, Reykjavíkurburg, Presidential Committee, the Association of Professionals, and the rest of the state of Perone Protection. The bill suggests changes in information laws with the aim of strengthening public information rights by expanding the law's set of values so that the right to access data achieves the main policy to govern legislative and judicial authority. The report will be made clear about the initiativeary minister for publication of information from case files. Special adviser to provide information rights for the government. Government executives may seek advice on confidential interpretation of ethical principles, and there is a clear explanation of information relating to public contact with specialists in the context of a judicial decision. It is suggested that environmental information rights be removed but that information laws specifically add to the management of such issues. It is suggested that there be stricter time limits in payment of access to information and the hearing of the decision-making committee on information matters. The Committee specifically discussed the range of values of the bill and the expansion proposed for the General Assembly and its Substitutions, the General Agent and the Government Review. The Commission established a view that in the progress of the preparatory situation, it would have emphasized that the regulations of information law would be applied to the administration or administration of the World Council rather than to the institutions of the Generals. In harmony with this, the prime committee had suggested wording in Article 2. would be: ▪ This law covers the administration of the General Assembly, as detailed in the laws on the General Assembly and the regulations established by the Presidency Committee on the basis of them. The laws of the law do not include the Council agent, State Reconnaissance or Investigators under the law of No. 68/2011, research committees. access to information from these institutions depends on the laws or on the rules set on them. It's a V.C.E.E.L.I.E.L.D. does not refer to the Generals or institutions of the Council. However, the bill suggests that the realm of information legislation will be adopted, as further stated by the Council of Parliamentary Congress and the regulations established by the Council Committee of the II Parliament. It's a V.C.E.E.L.I.E.L.D. However, the law's section does not take over to the Generals, and the right of the public to access data to the establishments of the Allegorium and its research committees, in accordance with legal requirements for the General agent, to legalize authorities, and to revise state accounts and to legalize any protocols or regulations established on the basis of them. The review of the Presidency Committee showed that the course taken in the bill to remove the word "Counsel" is not in accordance with the proposals of the Presidency Committee. This is not in accordance with the emphasis of the Minister's Committee and Explanation on the Directive, which speaks of administrative or administrative factors by the Generals. In this context, 1st C.E. The Tromsø Treaty of June 18, 2009, provides access to public data, the European Version of which it is the Convenience on Access to Overseers, on which the bill appears to be based, on the meaning of the words '-official reference, and in English it starts with the translation of the Šplicautautautities#2. Legislative sermons and judicious prognosis ins such a way as the non-National lactation method. Thus, the wording of the bill seems far more extensive than the proposal of the prime committee. For an explanation of 2 g. The bill suggests that a prime committee will be assigned to set the boundary between its own Senate work and the Senate administration by its rules, but it can also attack some of the laws of the council. Thus, the prime committee itself would determine the details of the Council administration and the aspects of the operation under information law. According to the wording of the law, there is no distinction between legal matters, council members, or council administration. While there may be a possibility of allowing the set of values to depend solely on the laws and regulations laid down by a prime committee, it is in the interests of clear legislation by the committee's proposal. So the committee feels that it is necessary to set the set of values between the Council's administration and that this should mark the administration itself for the Senate. The review of the prime committee also points out that it is not accompanied by the proposal of the presiding committee to separate the bodies of the Council, the members of the General Assembly, the Government Review Committee, and the research committees, the set up of information laws, and the general public information rights to obey laws concerning these institutions. Under this proposal, the independence of these institutions, including the council, has to be maintained. from the Commission and the rules for its activities, it falls under the conditions of an agent and a state accountant to monitor how the European Commission follows the rules of information legislation. Nor will it be seen that under the term legislative authority, in English, the Tromsø Treaty, the institutions of a council like an agent or a State Accountor fall. The current presentation on the bill is not reasoned specifically and appears unfounded and may cause problems. In particular, if there are differences in the values of information legislation against the institutions of the General and, therefore, whether these institutions of the Parliament fall under the Commission's decision on information issues and to the extent of any other law of information, but directly access to data such as registration, in the cases of the institutions of the council. Then there is a special solution that would have to be taken as a result of the agreed bill to the extent of making adjustments and enforcing the laws of the Council's institutions - as if it had to be implemented in the Parliament for the International Assembly - a set of access to data in the institutions of the Parliament and taking into account the nature of the activities that they have in their hands. Finally, the review says that it would be right to make a correct decision regarding comments made with the bill that the Norwegian Council rules could be a possible pattern for rules to be set on the law of the Council of the Council, that the Norwegian Information Act separates the Council, its agent, and its State Accounting versus the Enlightenment Act. For the access rights of information at the state reexamination is discussed in the Agency's legislation. Then there were also rules regarding the agent of the Council in this regard, i.e. Instruks for Storets olebudsmann for premeditation, compare Article 11. The rules. The Commission noted that Norway has, as indicated in comments in Section 3.1 of the report with the bill, validated by the Tromsø Convention, although the Council and its institutions are the exception of the information legislation. The regulations set up by the Council and the Committee for Presidency assume that the Norwegian Information Act applies to the interpretation and exception that results from the rules of the Council. Therefore, the topic of the Presidency Committee must determine the activities of the General Assembly under information legislation, which is proposed to be generally referred to the General Government. It will also be assumed to take into account the specification of the laws on personal protection and the handling of personal information, No. 90/2018, who do not participate in the International Assembly, compare with 5 mgr. Section 4. The law. It refers to the traditional work of the Generals as a representative of the National Committee. The terms of information legislation would therefore not include members of Congress or members of a body of members or information that would be available in the relations of these parties to form with the council's research services. The committee considers it necessary to respond to the indications presented in the review of the Presidency Committee and therefore suggests a change in Article 2. In line with this, the bill will be as proposed by the presiding committee. This means that information law applies to the General Assembly and as a result a focus of the Generals administration, but otherwise, i.e. The members of the Parliament and the political work are excluded. At the same time, the World Parliamentary Office, a National Reconnaissance, supervises the well - being of the national tax and the U.S. government agent, which is a form of the highest ruling authority in the administration of government, i.e. The European Commission, so that its citizens can take their rights if they feel that the government is violating, except for, these people are excluded. The Committee stated that the regulations of information laws not to be taken to the Directorate of the General Assembly and to the State Review Committee, as the proposal for the Presidency puts it, could be a loss of focus, as the law on the State accountants and review of accounts in 2 mg. Section 15. on access to data from Public reviews referred to information legislation. In this case there may be some inconsistency. This article will advise that if there is any access to data that has been generated in the relations of the state-of-the-viewer and its surveillance organisations to access them at a National Reconclusion on the regulations or requirements of environmental information rights following events. The Commission notes that while the Agency does not depend on information legislation, it is the fact that the public's information rights follow the general principles of information laws and restrictions on them. Thus, government accountant's decisions on access to data do not bring charges to the Commission on information issues. This is relevant in this way to the execution of the Commission of Information. It was up to the Commission that these institutions of the Council, which are expected to oversee the European Commission, would not be subject to that hat or power. A member of the Generals has the legal right to provide information and information from the government based on his examination of the matter. The management board shall submit data and answers to the information requests regardless of the confidentiality and the rules for accessing administrative agencies and the public to data. At the committee's meetings, an executive informed the Generals that he is working to prepare rules to ensure and explain public access, those who have sent him complaints and governments to provide information from his office and results on matters he is involved in. The committee feels very positive that an agent sets such rules and makes them available on his website. These include access to documents over 30 years of age. For the Committee it was noted that there is no change in the proposal that the Allied Council is subject to a National Archives Report and that data at the General Assembly are not available after 30 years, as is common regarding public access to public information under the law of public archives. The Commission does not feel the need to make changes in this arrangement. The General archives have a particular position in which the Constitution is expected to have the archives. That's the way it is in 1 0... The Constitution states that when the president takes up his job, he will take an oath or pledge to the Constitution. From this oath or name, two consistent originals should be made. Stores the Allied Parliament another, but the National Archives that met. Thus, during the course of the council, the archives have always been made known to the commission that there are rules on access to documents over 30 years of age. Access has been provided to scholars who study individual subjects. On the part of a series of initiatives from government lawsuits. The Commission discussed some of the changes proposed in the bill regarding initiative support of information but in Article 9. The bill is suggested that Iceland's Management Board publish information electronically. It is suggested that there should be a minimum registry of matters for the management of the Ministry for the purpose of a form or a published address which gives a language number and a case name. It is noted that a minister can also, following the Commission's experience with publication of information from legal files, recommend the comparable duties of other governments by reviewing regulations for the publication of official information on the initiative of the government. The Commission feels that this is a significant step in the public access to information from the management board and that success will result in economic success in administrative matters. Then there's a chapter on public information rights. Personally, I'm the most fond of this. The main objective of the bill is to increase the public information rights, and it is suggested that governments operate a special adviser on public information rights, which is designed to promote the improvement of public intelligence. The Commission stated that a decision-making committee on information issues has led to a shape and interpretation of current rules. It has repeatedly issued a judicial decision and provided administration to governments when the laws of the law have been applied in too limited ways. The decision - making committee, however, has only access to matters when the petitioner decides to plead a case with the committee. Here, it may be added that the committee has not taken the initiative, that is, what is being said here, but also if a government has not worked for a case, it has not been right for a person who wishes information to be wanted to the decision - making committee. They're putting in this bill. Therefore, the decision - making committee cannot directly address local government recommendations either in isolated cases or in general, unless it is decided on a certain basis. The Commission notes that the decision-making committee will only bring up the final stage, but by setting up a job counselor on public information rights, early guidance, such as the guidance of citizens on the development of data requests, can be provided. It is then suggested that the counselor be governments and other sources of information legislation for advice on how to handle and provide access to data. The committee believes that there is a great opportunity to have such advisers for public citizens and governments and that this could even cause a slight decrease in the case of the decision - making committee. What this means is that if the bill becomes legal, the citizens, the media, and the government can consult the counselor who can guide all the authorities on how to win these issues. As we have seen, citizens are often sending out information requests that are not clear or reserved. They can get guidance on this, as well as the media. The government may also have the problem of not being sure how to do the request, and as a result, a matter may be delayed and may be delayed for a long time, especially naturally because we know that our management is very financial and that I would not be surprised if there were very many people to burn out there. The bill means that if the government is unsure about how to issue a information request, they can consult the counselor and get information about it, and the public can turn to him for this to promote rapid and professional work, and that the adviser can provide management and help to complete the information requests, which are extremely important. The Committee gave the opinion that the legal case prescribed for Article 13. The bill may put a risk on the issue that meets the Commission's decision on information without having received any consideration in a lower administrative level. Under these circumstances, the city will be examined only at one level of administration but will not find the level of security that will be guaranteed by a review of the higher level of government. With reference to the above court case, the decision-to-treat hearing committee on information issues following a new lawsuit 13 par. The bill includes an exception from the principle that a case can receive physical treatment at two administrative points with administrative districts. As a result, the Commission feels that a ruling committee on information matters informs the accused of this and draws his attention to the possibility of looking to advice on public information rights, such as Article 10. The bill, to reroute the case at the first administrative level. This is especially true in cases where a request for extensive data requires a lot of work, or treatment takes a long time for other reasons and it is clear that it is working at the first administrative level. So a girlfriend has a choice to withdraw the charges temporarily from the decision - making committee, to enjoy the rights of two administrations, or to stick to the demand that the Commission on information matters make a material decision about his access. So the rights are with the citizens. Today, if a citizen proposes an information request according to information law, he owns this right, but the management doesn't work on the case, he's stuck. What's being added now is that 30 days from then, he, if he wishes, can sue the Commission on information matters that take a binding decision. The case is still in operation at the first administrative point, and the decision - making committee informs the accuser: You can retract this charges, go to the counselor who helps you and the government to resolve the matter. Once this is solved, the charges are not readily available and the intelligence committee has no need to handle the case, and the city has received its own information. For the duration of treatment. The committee specifically discussed the time limit suggested in the bill on the maximum pay period waiting for data to be accessed. In 1st. 17th par. The law states that a decision should be made whether or not to be made on request as soon as possible. If a request has not been completed within seven days of the reception, the party should be informed of the reasons and when a decision is to be expected. Proposed on request 33rd. However, there should be 20 days, i.e. Access to laboratory data. The bill suggests that the maximum pay time required for access to data under the information code will be 40 days from the request. If a request for access has not been completed within 40 active days of her reception, a candidate will be allowed to refer the case to the decision-making committee as a ruling of his right to access it. The committee held the opinion that there was any danger that governments would use this 40 - day maximum pay period to the full rather than comply with the principle of making requests in seven days. For the Committee, the importance of a maximum pay period was discussed to ensure the rights of those seeking government information. It was observed that the 40 - day extension provided in the bill before a matter can be presented materially under the Committee on Information, as well as the 150 - day treatment period for the committee, is partly based on the current procedure and experience with the Committee's work. However, the committee believes that, having agreed with the Ministry of Presidency, it is possible to shorten the earlier 40 days for 30 days and thus contribute to the adjustment of its provision at Article 13. The bill. In this regard, the committee emphasizes the importance of providing information as quickly as possible to end basic rights. In the 15th. The bill is suggested that the decision be usually published to the judges who requested access to data and to the charge within 150 days of its receipt. The committee noted that the average treatment period for the decision - making committee has been 180,220 days; thus, this is a significant shortcut to pay time. It would require increased funding for the decision - making committee to shorten the time of her trial. The committee feels that it should continue to work toward the goal of maintaining the treatment period, but the following step is an important step in improving public information rights. It will also be considered whether further shortening of the treatment period will be possible. It is now a government policy that reduces time to 90 days, and it is being processed and ads have been sent out to hire an extra staff member for the Commission on Information. It's working towards this, shortening this time. You remember that if the government receives an information request, it's seven days, they're supposed to work on it, then inform the person asking for information if it takes longer. After 30 days on this bill and a change, the person asking for information, the citizen or the media will be able to sue it to the decision - making committee. Note, however, that it is 150 days to wait there, but it is the right to withdraw the request temporarily, speak to the government's representatives, the emissary, aiding information requests, and help him get help and then he can speak to the government in an effort to resolve the matter. This is a long period of 150 days. The government is trying to take him down to 90, but this is such an emergency, which is not there today if the government is not doing anything. Now it will be there, along with this help. They're on environmental information rights. Now I'm running out of time, but I think I'm gonna make it. The Commission discussed their meetings on access to environmental data, but with the bill it is proposed that environmental information rights be suspended and entered into information legislation with the aim of simplifying the Regulation. Prohibable due to an impending situation. The EEA's review points out that the order laid down in final language is 1 mg. Section 5. The law, if you don't go into effect, the bill will be by law. In this article, the obligation of governments to allow the public to access existing environmental information with the limitations of Article 6. The law. In the final part of this letter, governments are under no obligation to provide specific information to the public in order to provide them unless there is a situation that could have harmful effects on the environment or on the health of people or animals. The Agency notes that the final part of the article has not been tested and that it also believes that by further implementation of voluntary activities and the public communication of information will be achieved with the same objective as in the directive. Nevertheless, the Agency feels that the time of publication of information needs to be more precise. The Commission agrees with these views and believes that it is necessary to consider with a review of the Regulation on the publication of information initiative by the government. This review will include consultation with the EEA, the Environment and Resource Ministry and other bodies. In terms of the rate and management of environmental information, the EEA points out that there are conflicting issues between the 1 mg. Section 12. Act on environmental information rights and 1st. 17th par. Enlightenment. So with the bill, there will be a court treatment period due to a request for access to environmental information by half. The Agency believes that the treatment period will be reduced. For the Committee, it was reported from the Ministry of Presidency that the matter was not really modified by a court order of information, but that it was shortened at the time the government had to report reasons for the treatment of a request and when the decision was to be expected. The principle remains that a decision should be made as soon as possible to make a request. The committee also stated that a general lawsuit due to the use of a court order is 4 mg. Count 9. Government law, as well as Article 13. The bill assumes a similar case as it is currently available in 2 mgr. Section 12. the law on environmental information rights. This will be considered in the implementation of the EEA series. The EEA points out that in this bill it is not an arrangement for VII. A section of the bill will be provided for the implementation of the Council Directive 2003/4/EC on general environmental information. Such a law is designed to increase transparency. The Commission agrees with the Agency's assessment and proposes such a change. I'm not going to be able to go through this. But it's a very detailed chapter on environmental information rights, we got very good comments on this. It was handled well, and the questions answered and responded to the indications, comments, and viewpoints observed. There's a lot of subsections there, and I'm telling the Americans that they can look into it in the Committee. Then there is a section on data that is excluded from the information rights. If I ask people to check it out. This is mainly related to management, e.g. A community, seeking counseling lawyers or something, and taking into consideration when discussing disagreements with other parties, should it be the source of information? This is a legal opinion that can be relevant to the development of an issue when it is an issue of controversy. Everyone agreed that it would be important to separate this, where the matter is going on, and it can matter, it's such technical information about the treatment. As to minimum rules, the Committee considers that with the bill there are progressive steps to better access to information both by taking on special information rights to work as well as by increasing government obligations to reveal information on their own initiative. The Commission noted, however, that by means of information laws, public access rules are set up and that governments, in many cases, can go beyond those that are legal. In view of the review of the treatment period, the Committee believes that the step taken here is important in improving the public information rights and binding hopes that a new arrangement, especially for advisers on public information rights, will improve the system's efficiency and speed of speaking. However, it is important to continue working towards the goal of maintaining the treatment period to a minimum, therefore the Committee considers it necessary to review whether a longer period of treatment can be reduced, both in terms of the maximum pay period requests for access to the data and delay given by the Commission on Information Issues. This review will be completed by January 1, 2022. So the Commission suggests several changes to the bill as explained here, as well as some legal changes, which include: ............................................................................................... The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under these publications, all of the members of the board and board of directors: Helga Vala Helgadóttir Helgadóttur, President Jón Þór Ólafsson, Teleik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir Brynjar, Jón Steindór Valmsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kálísson, Þýfjörfjörður Þorsteinn, og Helmtmar Bogi.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u10	Mr. President. This is one of the most important things that have come into this council regarding freedom of expression and information, and it made me want to thank you for the reason. The speaker of the case before a extensive speech. I'd like to go over some things. Public intelligence rights are extremely important, and it is of utmost importance to all of us that they are respected and that governments respect the right to public information from the administration system, from public institutions, government agencies, public authorities, etc. Of course, we've had a lot of cases over the years and in recent years, since the information rights has not been respected as it should. It has been noted, and it was well presented to the Commission, both the media workers, and also those who were working on this bill as well as the people working inside the system, that it seems that the government has taken the advice to ignore any request for information from the media or to refuse to respond to it, so the Enlightenment on information gets the case, that it is, in fact, accepted to answer badly or deny when a request for a decision came not to take sides, to buy time. This was made clear in the case of almost everyone who came before the committee, whether to a representative of the Commission on Information or a representative of the press. The purpose of these changes is to provide public access to needed information. The committee spoke extensively about this overexploited long trial period being given. The press, the press, spoke about this, and everyone agreed that this is, of course, a very long time. At times, though, it is a very large supply of data needed to take place. But sometimes it isn't like that, and it was mentioned in connection with the 40 - day delay that the government has to give information, provide information, that because it is inserted there, the government will always use it for 40 days, in which there is a danger that there will always be a strong one. This was discussed in a number of meetings we had with a number of visitors. Of course, in the media, news may live for just a few days, and if it takes 40 days, the story has long gone and the damage has happened. That's why they talked about it. But everyone agreed, in effect, that it would be better to have this 40 - day period to provide an information request with the clear authority to report the case to the decision - making committee right away, as it is now, that the government is drawing and drawing down and answering, and the person asking for the information is not able to find anything. He cannot sue because there is no answer. There's no no point. There's no answer and it's late. [[Up front.]] - That's what we've got. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson in front of me, but it's just gonna have to be. It was discussed in the bill to have those 40 days. The committee spoke extensively about the length of time, and it was a great willingness to have it shorter. The principle is that information should be submitted within seven days of the request's reception. This principle should be explained why it exceeds seven days. The government should inform the person asking for information why the information is not received in one week. However, the Commission decided that the 40 days were filled with space, so the switch is proposed in the treatment of the committee to shorten the time to 30 days. It looks like it's someone's. It is said that there is too little time for extensive information, but it is now that if there is very extensive information, and if the authority is involved in a clear discussion with the person who wishes the information, the media members of the committee would agree that if a conversation is going on, it is not quite much to be done if it is quite clear that the request is being won. What has been most disturbing today, as the rulework is now, is that it is just silence. There's no answer. That is absolutely unacceptable. What is being changed is not getting an answer within 40 days, if the individual or the media are not respected, they are now available to the decision - making committee and press charges that the information has not been delivered. There is a very important part of this bill regarding advisers on public information rights. The counselor should be the one giving advice on information to both governments and the public. This is all agreed that there will be a way of such a deal, i.e. that governments can consult these counselors and ask: Do we have the right to publish the information? Can we hand them over? Instead of, as has been the last year, governments are hiding behind their wanting to be on the secure side of the line and to publish no information, deliver no information, and leave this to the decision-making committee. It was all agreed that such a adviser will make it seem that much less cases are going to go before the decision - making committee than today because more information will be obtained than it is now, when the government seems to have this spontaneous answer: No, we do not cancel information unless it is authorized by the decision board. We on the Committee and the guests who met the committee hope that a adviser on the public information rights will send the government a clear line in their comments that they have both initiatives and duty and counsellines to the public and to the government. Regarding the speed of the case with the Commission itself, it was also much to discuss the length of the decision - making committee's time on information matters. It was observed that the average treatment period for the Committee is 180 ◯220 days, and all agree that this is completely unacceptable. It was mentioned within the Committee that the maximum time should be mostly 30 days, possibly 60 days, but those who know the system best and the representatives of the decision-making committee, and, of course, those who came to write this bill, which, according to the decision-making committee, said it was totally unrealistic to put such regulations into the law at this point because the committee would first have to build up the committee, increase the staff there, put counsel on public information rights to work and find how it is before it is decided to cut down the time required for the committee to answer. That is why it is discussed in the Committee, and this was a big deal on the committee, to be honest, whether the number of days should be 150 days from reception. But the procedure is, of course, so that the committee gets the request or charge, data manager, the government gets an opportunity to counter, to submit a report, and then comes back a accuser who will be able to respond to it. That's why it takes time. The Commission can access the information being asked for, etc. So it takes an enormous amount of time. However, the committee concluded that it is right to continue working with the goal of a minimum treatment period. The following step is important in improving public information rights, but it remains a clear indication to the government to determine whether a longer period of treatment can be reduced when this adviser is experienced. This counsel is being used by the government to continue developing it. It also pointed to the Governing Body for 40 days, the right of a candidate to file an immediate answer to a ruling committee, that this rule was maligned because it was not discussed in two administrative districts. Nevertheless, the committee considered it very important to have the right not to have the situation now, where governments will not be able to answer for long, and there is nothing that the waitr can do about it. There was also a considerable discussion of the independent decision committees of the Committee and the right to have an independent ruling committee or that this was included in the council. But that's different. Only finally, the decision-making committee on information matters. The Commission discussed their meetings on access to environmental data. The bill suggests that environmental information rights specialisations will be removed and brought into the information laws with the aim of simplifying the principle, letting the same thing apply. Sitting there. There was a tip from Ófeigur Nature Protection that the bill was legally establishing restrictions on the public's environmental information rights that did not agree with the European Directive. In particular, the committee sought information on this subject and stated that the bill was not aimed for any material change in that area. Rather, it was trying to adapt and harmonize. A law on environmental information rights would be being provided almost unchanged into a special chapter of the Enlightenment Act to allow this to be in one place. The 2003 directive would not have been changed since the creation of the Environment Court's legislation took effect in 2006, and the fact that the unpredicted protection that the directive at its time had not been properly introduced was actually sent to the Ministry of Environment by the Committee, which felt it necessary to perform an independent examination of the need to do better when it comes to public information rights for the environment. Is the Ministry of Presidency specifically assigned to determine if there is a need for improvement in this area. However, the committee did not want to delay all of this when it was a law that has been in effect since 2006. This is what I would like to consider in very short - term terms. Although the bill seems to be unique, it does improve. The person who stands here would have been thrilled to have this deadline all the time more tight than I hope the government will want to speed it up as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u11	President. Then I will give my own speech in this matter. I gave my first talk as an executive director of the committee's opinion. I would like to direct the public to what it means practitioner for the public and the media when the bill becomes a law. What changes? The situation is now that when the public wants information, he cannot request information from the Court's administration, i.e. from the Court office of Justice, who works things and keeps the evidence in place. It does not cover the judgments or the data behind everything. It covers the administrations itself, the office, but it also falls over the General Assembly office, so this is an expansion of a range of values, which is also the subtitle of this bill, of the Enlightenment Act. There is more information that the public can ask for. At the same time, the initiative of the government is to provide information, but if there is no information available, it means practitioner for the public and the media that they can request it from the government today. It is still so that a government should work as fast as possible, but let it know if there are delays and how much it is. It's the right thing to do. Since then it has been developed so that even if government does not let it be known after seven days of the law today, time will just pass. It's sent in a query, and time just goes by. There is nothing that the public or the media can do if the government neglects its duties to handle the situation. The Commission and the Commission feel that it is in their opinion that they will move the target from 40 days to 30 days, as in the bill, and then the authority of the citizens and the media will be activated to sue the decision-making committee for information issues. These are the two points, one of which is to be given and won the information and the other is a ruling committee on information matters to which they are to be ruled. She takes very long to win a case. Governments want to try to bring it down, it is government policy to move it down to 90 days, which is still an enormously long period of time, and all sorts of practitioners allow it to do so. All kinds of deadlines are used, you ask for information, so you have a set time, etc. Even if it is being handled on objective basis for the periods that are natural in administrative law, that is still a long time. It is 90 days that governments are working their way down to. Today it will take exactly 1801⁄220 days. The bill suggests moving the target down to 150 days, though, is a very long time. This is what the citizens and the media have if government just doesn't work on it. It can happen. The extra rights are being introduced that after 30 days the city and the media have the right to sue the Commission on information matters that work in a material way and eventually decide whether citizens and the media are entitled to the information they want. My lawyer and I considered what this decision meant. It means it's about to go. This means that if governments refuse to provide information, you have a right to rule, e.g. The businessman, to ask for this information. It's a long way, but it's a guarantee that even if governments neglect and use every 30 days and you need a federal committee on information matters, you can get the information. She'll decide within 150 days. When we began considering the matter, we also added, because time is so long, whether there is anything else we can do to pressure governments. Then a adviser came in on public information rights. Check him on the bill, he'll be in 13. ... therightof information. This, I would say, is the strongest practitioner for things to happen, that the general public really has a practitional way of getting the information. By permission of the President: ▪ On the part of the government, a adviser on the public information rights to help improve the government's intelligence. Among other things, he is disfellowshipped by: 1st Guide individuals, partners, media, lawyers, and others to whom they are looking for access to data, which should be made directly and in any case, compare IV. the chapter of the law. If we are not sure where to begin, we can consult our counselor, get information about it, and make a proper request. If we forget or think we can do this well ourselves, we can approach the government immediately. If that doesn't answer, we can sue the decision board in 30 days. It guides us and will always guide those who are dear if they are not completely aware of all this process. The decision board guides us so that we can - this is still in the process of the administration, which is clearly not involved - seek out the adviser and the counselor may then be able to assist. The counselor is then 2nd point here. He shall: In accordance with section I. to advise the management of requests for access to data and to make a decision on the right to allow access to the company. The counselor has a role in counseling the government. As mentioned in the Committee, cases where governments are not sure are not well understood are not entirely experienced. If they are not sure how to do things, they can delay for a very long time, perhaps landing between ships and docks, or landing back on priorities, etc. As a precautionary measure, the counselor or adviser can consult with the government and say: "Hey, I can guide you on how to do this, the city has a right to the job according to the other rights, and therefore the case is resolved. Even if the decision has come to the decision - making board, it is possible to withdraw the charges, ask the counselor, or allow the decision to stand, go to the counselor, work on the case, and as soon as the government allows it to be taken care of by the decision board. In addition, 3rd point here is that a adviser on information rights should: ▪ Watch how public members fulfill their obligation to give the public access to information, either on the basis of the wait or on their own initiative, compare Article 13. The law of the law, and the proposals to be made in an appropriate setting. He has the responsibility to monitor and implement improvements, e.g. directly to the institutions to provide information on how they can do better and guide them with it, or if these laws do not provide a desired purpose in any way, they can recommend a minister to change the law so that the public information right is really respected. Then, in point of point 4, he says: ▪ Watch public information rights research and development and share information with the government, as I was saying. This is an enormous act of justice for the people and the media. There, governments cannot simply sit around, forget things, or ignore them. It is always the civil, media, or members of the organization's right to refer for 30 days a case to the decision - making committee that guides and to the one who is to consult the counselor. He can also approach his counselor at the outset. All of this will strengthen the economic availability of public, community and media information in the country. I am very grateful that I could have been a part of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u12	President. I'm here as the lead boy. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. We had this case for a discussion, but a proposal to be agreed on by Congress reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide prime minister to appoint a advisory committee for the removal of administrative barriers to facilitate the free movement of individuals and enterprises in the north by promoting and harmonizing the work of the administration and other members in this area. The advisory Committee shall include: The members of the Council of Iceland are appointed as members of the Council of Human Rights at the Council of Human Rights, with the Council of the United States of America, to serve as members of the administrative committee of the Council of Human Rights, in accordance with the Council of the European Parliament, the Council of the European Parliament and the It's the National Council's Iceland Department of Council for this proposal. For what? The board of directors and patrols... we covered the situation and brought in our guests. The response may be summed up so that everyone thought the idea was fine, fine, and could be quite successful, but the suggestion would be rather blurred by the separation of the employment area of this advisory committee, where she lived in the administration, about how her interaction was with other committees working at various level, e.g. The Ministry of Justice. Of course, it would be good to work as best to eliminate administrative barriers in order to pay for a free journey in the north. It is most exciting to say that the Commission considers it very important to continue working to promote and integrate the work done by the consultants to this objective and to cooperate with other North countries to simplify the regulations for the benefit of citizens. The committee suggests that the case will be referred to the prime minister and associate minister of the northern countries to address the uncertainty issues that I presented as part of the committee's opinion. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " paritaprevir Prefect Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Chairman Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Jón Þór Ólafsson Ourfjörfjörfjörsson, Bridar Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Þöstein Sæmundsson, and Turður Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u13	A respectable president. I come up here as chairman of the Council of Northern Iceland, but I'm not going to have many words on the Senate proposal or on the committee's opinion this time. Both are very good. I thank the Board of Directors and Observers for her good work and careful review, and I agree with her conclusion. Of course, the matter should be explained accurately. We naturally have this Finnish role model. For several years there has been a Finnish advisory committee, which has these matters to do, in working out the administrative barriers. That's where we can search, and it's the clear objective of all the Ministers here, and I'm assuming members of Congress also, to achieve those goals, i.e. oduction of the administrative barriers to facilitate free movement of individuals and enterprises within the north. As noted in a committee program with a paradox, and the leading director of the case mentioned earlier, there is quite some cooperation in this field between recruitment practices in the North countries. People strive to conform to rules so that there will be no discrepancies in law. In addition, the National Advisor Committee on official monitoring regulations appointed by the prime minister. So we may well explain this frame so that we can reach our goals. I'd like to underline and enter the review of Iceland's Crevice Coalition. The committee received two reviews, one from the National Constitution of Iceland, which was spoken of as well as in Iceland's Scaring Alliance. It says, by permission of the president: A PUBLICE supports and emphasizes the establishment of a advisory committee on the removal of administrative barriers to facilitate free movement in the Northern states. In addition, the Council of Human Rights has raised issues involving disabled persons and poor people to the Council of Human Affairs, which operates on the Council of Ministers of the Norwegian Ministers. It is important to follow these matters closely. Moreover, while it is emphasized to ensure freedom of all, disabled people need to seek many government support more often, they are more likely to be exposed to governmental barriers. By establishing a advisory committee in Iceland, we have hoped that there will be an increase in power for that work. Finally, the importance of getting access to the advisory committee and representing a disabled person on the committee is laid down. I'll be under the custody of the Corporate Community. I believe that their proposal is very good and that there will be a need for such goals at some point, hopefully soon. The proposal of the Committee is to refer the case to the prime minister and associate minister of the northern countries. I agree with that, thanking the committee again and again for very good and careful work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u14	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal for a change in the law of state accountants and a review of state accounts. This is a review from a management and monitoring committee that has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a group of people, as well as districts received the commission. First, the bill suggests that the work of a government accountant on income watch will be better defined. Second, there will be refinements in the information related to government accountants and third, that the office's documenting work is the same as that of the General Assembly and the General Agent of the II Parliament. At a meeting the Committee discussed the objective of the bill to define a government accountant's work in the management sector better, but the bill includes the focus of changes to the State's decision-making work of the State's National Relations Research Centre that their special work unit of surveillance for making money meets in accordance with the State's plans. The role of this unit is suggested to be clear, as is done by financial review and the administration of a government accountant, which includes the work of the Watch Tower Society. researching various government income elements. The Commission agrees with the viewpoint that the project is a major factor in the ability of the Council to administer its financial role, which has a legal law on public finances, to increase the focus of the financial monitoring. A government accountant who is the Trustee of the Generals and responsible for the review and management of the state's business and finances plays a key role in the operation of the surveillance entrusted to the General Assembly. The committee specifically discussed the provision of Article 4. the bill for increasing the access of government accountants to public data and information systems, such as housing, registration of real estate, ships, airships, decision and collection of taxes and pay. Such parties, which are the body of the state funds, the National Constitution of Iceland, the Association Office, etc., shall provide access to national accountants electronically access to real-time information from their systems which he needs for his work, free of charge. This was discussed in a significant way because there was a suggestion that the State accountant was being given too much access to personal information with reference to the privacy and confidentialness of the government and that many questions were raised about this and how these matters were handled in our neighboring countries, e.g. correspondent in Norway and Denmark The objective of the bill is also that the income of the state will be in accordance with its strategy, but the access of government accountants to the data from public sources and information systems on the financial issues of the State is not clear enough in the law to be able to fulfill its important role in monitoring the pressures of collections, etc. The aim is to enable a State accountant to make withdrawals, on the one hand of the state's income and on the other, on the financial systems of the institutions, and therefore need to have access to all the government financial information in order to maintain the rightness of income and their debt in accordance with existing laws. Thus, it is not intended to perform a specific run-in within the national tax management systems, nor to recalculate the pressures of public pay, but to allow this assessment of calculation and stress, including to ensure correct functionality of the systems, access to the criteria used for the calculated calculation should be provided. Thus direct access to financial systems is necessary to make sure that the systems work and work as planned, including those intended. in accordance with law and administration recommendations. The system organization or inspection also requires a safety inspection of the systems, including the to make sure that they cannot be abused for deceitful purposes. The authenticity of the systems cannot be verified differently. The Commission agrees with the views presented by the Committee's meetings and reminds us that government accountants and their employees are committed to a law as well as to the information committed by other governments are moving confidentialally to them. The Commission believes that the objective of the bill is clear and that no processing is any other than being carried out by government officials and no data would be transferred from the tax authorities to government accountants. The Commission also reminds us that authority rights of government accountants depend not only on monitoring the government's income, its institutions and its government agencies but also on the control of government incomes and on the use and value of money, in a practical and legitimate way. The committee stresses that a government accountant, such as any other government, must always take a moderate measure of the application of the documents he has. However, the committee considers after all of this right to agree with the views presented to the commission and therefore suggests that the authority of the State accountant according to the A-Counsel 4. The bill becomes tighter and the word becomes that a government accountant will have access to the information contained in the public information systems needed to monitor and revise state property and income. The Committee specifically discussed indications on the subject of personal protection and privacy with the definition that it is reasonable to specifically record all social accountants in the EU taxpayer's systems and, above all, to be reported by the concerned partners. Therefore, the Committee suggests that changes to the bill in order to maintain a record of all individual tax contributions and legislators in order to verify the right income of the state and to be assigned to the State accountant to inform the subject of such renovations. Does the committee think it's extremely important and natural that about the equivalent of other institutions, such as insurance, employment agencies, legislation funds, and especially the local Internalist Institute, the values of the same rules? Will the committee try to work on it at the next assembly. Data security was only covered. It seems that some mistake was made in the past. The bill suggests that a government accountant will be an understatement of the law on public archives and therefore returned to the National Archives of Iceland. In 1987 there was a law on Government Review, and it seems that there was a compromise on how this should be so that the committee suggests a change in the bill to the point that we are adding a new article on the law on public libraries where it will be specifically proposed that a state accountant will be made, like the General and U.S. Marshal, under the terms of the law on public archives. Otherwise, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes that have been stated. Under the opinion of the committee, all members of the management and monitoring committee are writing, please. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Líneik Þór Sævarsdóttir, Jóri Ólafsson, Brabbur Níelsson, Jón Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Kárason Káfánsson, Þólmurfjörður Sæmundsson, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u15	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for a synopsis on the western cooperation of sports between children and adolescents. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Guðjón of the Directorate of the S. Brjánsson, president of the Western Council, and the same one now serving as the President of the United States, Bygl Bylgja the Árnadóttir, secretary of Iceland's Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, director of the Western Council, and Ragnheiður Helga, of the Þórarinsdóttir of Education and Culture. The proposal encourages the government to promote the cooperation of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland in the field of sports between children and adolescents. The proposal is presented on the basis of Western Council's conclusions, No. 1,2018, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body on September 5, 2018, in Thors Harbor, Faeroe Islands. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. to improve the link between the Western nations, it could be possible to establish a systematic sports team, e.g. by inviting young athletes from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands to participate in the international conventions or to establish Western sports events held in three countries. In this way, the link between the countries could be enhanced through the entire generation of young people. Or it could be a global success for the Western nations in team sports. By sharing national experience with the development of infrastructure, training, and facilities, the Western countries can improve their effectiveness in this regard for the future. The proposal is acknowledged by the committee, but it also calls attention to the commendable initiative shown in this field, and it can be, for example. points to the Hokka's chess program in Greenland and the cooperation of several Icelandic and Greenlandic rural associates on the swimming program of green children in Iceland. Both might be strengthened more and more projects could be developed. So the committee suggested that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Smári Mccarthy and Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir were away at the hearing. Other than this, co-president Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, President of the Committee, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornólfjordsdóttir, vice president of the Committee, Ari Trausti Bryndís, Britti Haraldsdóttir, Góri Bragi Sveinsson, and Þólur K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u16	A respectable president. I come up especially to say that I agree with this committee party. It was so cruel that I was absent when the case was settled from the committee, but this is a very good case, and the report also underscores what is important. I may want to add, beyond that, that by inviting Western and Western athletes to join in the conventions held in Iceland, as well as possibly to establish Western events held in these countries for once in the time being, we will help practicers, coaches, and others involved, and children's natural parents get to know one another. That is what matters when we are talking about building a bond between countries, the personal bond, the friendship of individuals. I often feel that many in this country don't know Faeroe and Greenland well enough because they're our good neighbors and they're not that far away from us. Somehow these countries may be a little remote to us, which is unfortunate. This gives Icelandic youths, and young green - eyed young people, an opportunity to visit their neighbors, to get acquainted, and to develop a bond that hopefully will live with them forever. This is a good thing, and I am also happy with what is stated at the bottom of the committee, which highlights the good work of the Glacier who has been teaching chess in Greenland for years. In Iceland too is known as the swimming chain of green - flung children. It was good to emphasize this in my opinion, and I agree that both can be further strengthened. I thank the Committee for a good job, and I accept it as it stands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a change in proposal for action on the cooperation of the Western countries on a digital language. The committee has discussed the proposal and was contacted by the Guðjón S. the Brjánsson of the Westnoric Council of Iceland, by the Professor of the Árnadóttir, the secretary of the Iceland of the Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, the Director Bylgja the Western National Council, and Ragnheiður Þórarinsdóttir of Education and Culture. The proposal challenges the government to establish a formal cooperation area for the future of the Western, British, and Greenlandic countries. The first step will be the establishment of a team of one to two representatives from every country that has knowledge of grammar and grammar. The role of the task force must be prepared a report with a summary of the three languages, as well as a summary of the language equipment (opportunity and databases) available for each case and suggest that cooperation with language equipment and other responses to the digital revolution. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2/2018, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body on September 5, 2018, in Thors Harbor, Faeroe Islands. According to one report, the digital world's position in languages is usually worse than that of fewer numbers, so Icelandic, leek, and green - eared halls can be expected. In 2012 a 2012 survey of European projects revealed that the second - largest of the 30 languages studied was Icelandic. The Faeroeses were not among them, but it can be seen that their situation is even worse. Although the situation is all very few, their situation is certainly quite different. Icelandic and French are closely related languages, but in Iceland they are not related to Brazilians and French have long been in a close home in Danish, but Icelandic has been the nearest monoton. In spite of this, there is no doubt that the three countries can benefit greatly from cooperation in this field. The first step in the cooperation of the three languages could be an institution of a team of work to provide a report that included a summary of the status and outlook of the three languages; a summary of the language equipment available for each case; and suggestions to cooperate on the language mechanism and other responses to the digital revolution. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: The first saying of the proposal is, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded that the government will be challenged in collaboration with the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlandn Home Government to establish a formal area of cooperation with the Western countries on the future, the 5th, and the Greenlandic. We thought it was important that this be added. Of course, all three kingdoms are to sit at the table and undoubtedly have something to offer. Cooperation usually involves greater forms and often better outcomes. Finally, I would like to say: Here in the country has been running a project for some time, an institution called the Alversian, which has the task of transporting the Icelandic to a digital form. It is a very interesting project that has just arrived, perhaps not very long, but important. I believe that the experience of this project and continuing to work on it may well be useful both in Greenlandic and in French, to strengthen it. Under this opinion, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Arbjörndóttir, president of the Committee, author here, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Betti Haraldsdóttir, Gnu Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brryfjörnóttsdóttir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy was away from the case. The Commission suggests that this proposal will be agreed with the proposed modification proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u18	A respectable president. I'll explain to the Committee Commission on bill support for the security of important infrastructure networks and information systems as well as the changes made by the Committee's opinion. V.E.G. The president has explained the matter and their numbers. The above - mentioned opinion is quite vivid, so I will not read it from a word to a word, yet it will take a considerable time to account for the key points mentioned in it. The committee discussed the matter and found a considerable number of guests. There were reports from Axel Tómasson, SEC, Iceland's Reconnaissance, the Internet in Iceland. INSIC, Isavia, Civilization, Peritoneal Protection, Post and Communication Institute, Association, Coalition, Business Association, and Business Association. This list shows that the strands of the bill lie in many parts of the community. The bill is suggested to agree on national network and information security legislation. It's actually the first universal law on that subject. The objective of the bill is to conform to minimal demand for risk management and management of important infrastructures, to promote the EEA's network security and telecommunications and to legalize the reporting of serious events in its network and information systems and to strategle under the command and role of the Network Security Council. The bill is mainly based on the requirements of the European Union's Network Security Directive, which has been called the Nations Directive, but one of the key objectives of the directive is to promote European countries through the development of a strong central network security team in each country. That's what they call a CSIRT team. Such groups can also cooperate with the central network security forces in other European countries, making sure that a consistent demand for network security is set up for important international infrastructure. The directive has not been recorded in the EEA Convention, but decisions are being made on the EEA field. Hence, the bill does not basically involve the implementation of a directive. It is used as a pattern, as it is sometimes done. The committee points out that the Internet security is one of the most important issues of today's time for national security and community. Based on the NRS directive ensures that Internet security is built up in a comparable and consistent manner here as in other European countries. During the construction of a security network and information system, the bill consists of a great deal of cooperation and cooperation in building up services and building trust between partners that play the role of cohesor, i.e. The post and telecommunications agency, network security, and those of the important infrastructure - as well as other surveillance agencies. It should be noted that reporters described general support to the bill and that it was important that a whole network security rule exists here. It was in general about the bill. Then we will discuss the Internet Security Council, as discussed in Article 4. It is, in fact, there. The role of a secretary of the Internet security Council is primarily to follow the implementation of government policies on Internet and information security. It was credible that the decree does not show which members should be appointed as members of the Governing Body. In this regard, the Committee points out that Internet and information are an ever-changing case that affects many departments and institutions as well as the general economy. So as time passes and the situation progresses, it may be a reason to have someone or more in the council than the ones who are now involved. So the committee feels that it is proper to keep the law unchanged in this regard. However, it is important to sit in the council with appropriate knowledge, education and experience, as the Council is designed to play a significant role in the Internet security. Gives the committee a change of 4. That agents appointed in the council should have appropriate education and/or experience. The next chapter discusses minimal protection requirements and reports for the Internet security team which are included in sections 7 and 8. The bill. It was noted that the directive made a distinction between the operators of the necessary services and those who perform digital services, which say the host's digital service. The above issue was discussed, but the committee did not consider a basis for a change in the subject. It points out that there is a allowed distinction between the requirements for these parties in the Regulation, as well as the distinction between surveillance rights due to operators' need of services and a digital service. This section also shows that it was unclear what was meant by the international criteria for best performance, but it shows that some ISO status was being referred to which the standard was to be superseded and dangerous to refer to a particular standard because the standards change over time. However, the Commission suggests that appropriate testing should be carried out on a regular basis and in accordance with international criteria for best performance at any given time. To turn this around even more. Eight. covering reports for network security but, according to the directive, important infrastructures shall promptly report to the email and telecommunications network about serious incidents or risks that threaten the security of their network and information system. It was noted that the wording was immediately too burdensome. The committee agreeed with this and suggests that instead of the words "suspect" immediately, it will be as soon as possible. Then it was discussed whether it is necessary to include in these laws that case announcements also go to the government of the Watch Tower Society, i.e. Other surveillance authorities, not only the Network Security Company, showed that the regulations of the bill do not prevent party notifications from other governments under other laws or regulations. In view of the introduction and implementation of notifications according to this bill, in the course of time, there may be reasons for explaining information to other authorities, especially about the Internet safety. The interaction between control authorities and co-ordination, a post-communication and communication agency, also under the control of digital providers, was discussed. It is reviewed in the committee's opinion why this route is selected, but the committee points out that Internet and information is one type of concern that may be considered to be of particular interest to all administrative organisations. After careful consultation and review, the Ministry considered that it would be better to hide different institutions of the law, each in its own special field. We're talking about surveillance agencies, such as the FDA, the surgeon general, and others. In 1 1. it shows that the administrative authority decides which members are considered to be the operators of the necessary services and the medium of announcements until the email and communications centre is established as well as at least every two years. At a meeting of the Committee, it was found that it may be burdensome for the operator to be defined as the recruiter of the necessary services and it is very important that this service be properly defined. Therefore, the Committee considers that it is proper to consult with the person before deciding whether a person is considered to be a caregiver of the necessary services or not. However, the Commission points out that the decision of the head of the administration after agreeing that a member of the management board is considered to be a permanent service at the administrative level, but differences will always be carried out under the courts in the event of a switch. As a result, the Commission suggests that 1 1 1. will add to the new case that prior to making a decision as to which party should be considered to be an important provider of important services in his field of control, it is possible for anyone to express himself on the subject. 16th degree. discusses services in important infrastructure and government institutions. The Commission points out that responsibility for network and information management is not to be extended on the basis of important infrastructures, but is the responsibility in companies that can then be consulted for network security after assistance and specific prevention instructions on the safety of network and information systems. The obligation of important infrastructures to negotiate with the network security team is therefore not required, but important infrastructures that choose to negotiate with the electronic network security forces and services are available for payback. 3 mg. Section 16. it is stated that the European Commission shall enjoy the services of the European Commission on the Internet Security Network. In the opinion of the Commission, it is appropriate to make absolutely certain that technical monitoring and services will become part of the EEA's fixed project for the Management Board and put it into place for a change of 3 mg. the contents. However, it is mandatory that this service applies only to special precautions but not to general advice offered elsewhere. Then there is a considerable section on accessing a network security team to information relating to Article 17. It shows that the post-and communications agency can detect and assess the threats and risks of the network and information systems of important structures, request that automatic information be introduced between the systems involved in important infrastructure and Network Security. It was agreed on by the Committee that in preparation of the bill it was a significant issue of how this information should be carried out, but the Committee is entitled to the framework recommended in 2 mg. it is thought of as a partnership between the Post and Communications Agency and the relevant parties when they need assistance in online security. Such equipment will not be placed without the approval of the party. The Committee points out that the network security team has available information and the Committee also points to surveillance privileges, but it shows that if it is an assessment of relevant control authority that important infrastructures do not meet minimal risk management requirements and equipment, the network security team can recommend improvements, such as minimal security measures. Here, again and again, the importance of trust rests on the basis of cooperation. According to the Commission, there is an urgent need for a good deal of reconciliation on the collection of information from important infrastructures. As noted, representatives of an important source have repeatedly objected to proposals concerning a single-sided network security team for the development of information. The European Network and Information Security Agency has stated that trust is a key to building a network security system and is referred to as being sure that the network will build up such trust on the basis of its good work so that important infrastructures can see their own benefits in using the Internet security team services. Then there is a chapter in the Committee on Silentness and Personal Protection. A problem was noted on the bill, resulting in three changes made by the committee in Article 19 and 21. to ensure that wording is correct and meets requirements. In addition, the Committee points out that according to a bill report it appears that a special assessment of the impact of the bill on personal protection was not performed and since it would not have been done in the preparation of the bill might be appropriate party, i.e. Network Security Unit, this assessment has to be performed prior to the initiation of personal information. The Commission aims to take a Peritoneal tip for consideration and to assess the effects on personal protection from the CDC. The evaluation of the need to make changes in law leads the committee to the minister's request that the bill be submitted to the autumn Parliament to ensure that such changes can be made in time. Then there is a discussion of punishment, but as is often expressed in this chair, it is important that legal documents be clear and clear and meet the standards of 1 mg. Sixty-niner. the republic's constitution on the ambiguousness of criminal action. After some consideration of punishment and penalties, the Committee suggests that three new articles are added to the bill after the 22nd paragraph. One article deals with government fines, another about human rights not to blame, and the third has to do with a clearer understanding of when a government agency is authorized to file charges against law against the police. In addition, the Committee suggests a change in 23rd paragraph. This change means that in view of the viewpoints of a moderate - scale committee, it suggests that only an intentional violation of punishment is given. The next chapter is about something else, which highlights the cooperation of the Ministry with the Post and Communication Office in the sentence of certain regulations. There is a slight change in the term usage as well as the importance of consultation and cooperation with the post-communication and important infrastructure before the public is informed of serious incidents or events relevant to the general public. There the committee once again reviews important structures at most levels and suggests a change that will ensure this consultation. Then comes the final raft, which is about cost and execution. The estimated cost of approval by the bill is considerable, as shown in the bill report. In view of the new project and the implementation of key functions, the Commission can affect the cost of monitoring to the Ministry that costs will be re-evaluated in the implementation of the law. There is evidence to suggest that the cost of Internet security is increasing in communities over the next few years, and therefore funding for the national and national work needs to be established. Despite this, it is important to be observant during the induction process and to ensure that investments are not put into place to solve the same tasks for more than one control authority, or in excess of need. Part of the cost is inevitable in this field of knowledge and knowledge, and this cost must not be underestimated. The Commission aims at the government to plan the cost of the implementation of the law on financial schemes and funding for the next year, with more information on the individual costs of the project. As a result of this and other necessary preparations, the Commission proposes a delay in the implementation of the law to September 1st, 2020. Code four. Get, though, the values recommended at 2 mg. Twenty-six. This applies to the Internet Security Council. Then the committee suggests minor adjustments in legal matters that need not be explained. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document, and I have made the following statements as I have considered. Underneath the publications of Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir Jón Gunnarsson, president of the Committee, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bergþór Ólason, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, Vilhjálmur of Árnason Karl Gauti Hjaltason was away from the case, but he signed the opinion as recorded in Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Helga Vala Helgadóttir was away from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u19	Mr. President. I'm reporting a committee party from what? Environmental and Transport Committee. The committee has discussed this subject and has received six visitors, and the committee received six reviews. The bill suggests changes in chemical laws aimed at improving legislation, making it clearer and more accessible, and ensuring improvement for the introduction of the EEA types and the so-called Minamata agreement to reduce the use of mercury from 2013. The committee has several chapters. The first is about the experience of chemical law, and it says: For the Committee and the reviews, a general pleasure was found with the experience of chemical law. However, the act of the law has shown that several laws need to change. For example, there are announcemental marketing regulations for toxic, plant protection products and disposal materials intended for commercial use only. This law is thought to conflict with free flow of goods according to the EEA Convention. There are also certain terms of the law that are defined in a different way than those of the EEA that they are intended to introduce. The changes are also suggested to the permission holder's simplicity. It is suggested that the length of the user-free interval is extended from five years to eight years. The EEA does not consider the need for such frequent renewal as five years are required. According to the Committee, all the above factors are improved as well as others not considered here. In a section on the discontinuation of the import, including: For the Commission it was concluded that certain legal uncertainty could result in the discontinuation of the toll manager on the basis of the EEA's recommendations, such as 2 mg. 20. The law. The Commission also stated that there may be a number of factors involved that can be canceled, but the decision usually depends on the lack of permission from another agency. The purpose of stopping payment does not include a physical position on the rights of the administration; it is a stop on the basis of another government's material decision, in this case of the EEA. There's an additional 68 st. it is a form of authority required to sue the minister of the administration decision taken on the basis of the law. Thus, in view of the Commission's opinion, toll reimbursement of customs due to the EEA's proposals will be charged with the Environment and Resource Ministry. The section on the safety reports in the Icelandic language shows that there are 30 paragraphs. a chemical law is recommended that such as the safety code provided by supply of materials for commercial use be published in Icelandic. The bill's report shows that in plans for a change in chemical law and to subtract the bill presented by government consultations, it was proposed that this claim be abandoned. Safety papers were suggested to include English, English, or Northern languages other than Finnish. The report shows that the proposal met with opposition from most sources. The committee discussed this requirement. There were the same views as those mentioned above. In addition, it was identified as highly technical data used by professionals. For example, when translated into Icelandic, they might become entangled by names of chemicals used in chemical mixtures. The safety papers may lose their security value in this regard. In view of the above reasoning, the Commission feels that there will be a strong argument that it will not fall into the legal obligation to translate safety papers into Icelandic languages. The committee stated that these are data that professionals cooperate with and that they fully support international databases. Thus, the safety papers have to do with a distinct group of people who are fair enough to understand the foreign language because of their education or other expertise. The safety papers go very small to the public. So the Commission suggests that safety papers are selective in English or English. Finally, there is a section entitled Education for Health Care Professionals. The Committee called attention to the role of the EEA, which is involved in education and guidance for health care professionals. The report of the bill explains the educational activities of the EEA at Reykjavík, the National Institute for Health and Health Monitoring of the European Environment Agency, and the National Health Organization for the EEA. It identified the importance of keeping chemical safety under control better than has ever been. After most of the surveillance has moved to the EEA, it would be difficult to maintain the necessary expertise in health care care. Education and guidance were issued on how to implement a specific surveillance, information supply to the EEA, etc. In the report, the Ministry responds to the above comments. It runs the regulations of 51 st. the legislation on the method of loyalty and pollution that puts it upon the EEA to oversee health care and ensure its harmonization in order to achieve the same operation across the country. Education for the health care provider is therefore a role that the EEA has and already has, but the Agency can still take care of it. The committee agrees with the above views. It is important that this project be made more important in the activities of the Agency. The committee will direct the Ministry to follow through on this. Mr. President. In addition to the above, the Commission suggests that there will be several legal modifications. The Commission considers the bill to improve and to strengthen the implementation of chemical laws. The committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document that I do not discuss here. Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason were away at the hearing. In addition, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. It is hardly surprising to say that under this opinion Jón Gunnarsson, president of the Committee, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, author Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Linika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótir, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótótir, and Vilmimurm Árnason. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u20	A respectable president. I'm an economist of the Environment and Transport Committee, so I don't have a minor opinion, but I wanted to make some comments about the majority opinion and the bill at all. The current bill has been through, though, some process. But as it was in the government's consultations, it went quite far. However, significant changes were made before it came to the council. Also, the Commission's proposals are very good, making the whole case much more useful, I can put it that way. It explains better about the occurrence of different parties, consultation with those needed, e.g. In terms of important inputs, what is defined as important structures, since there is an increasing demand for them according to the bill, and it is specifically shown that they need to be consulted as to whether they are defined as important structures or not. For example, a comment was made that a so - called RIX, at least one version of it in Iceland called the Rix, was an example of an important infrastructure. Whether or not, it was not clear in the bill, and comments came about, for example. Such infrastructure would not be important for the complete removal of it, and it would not change anything into the Internet's function or anything like that. It is only a matter of practical wisdom to have this service. I don't feel that clearly in the committee's opinion, I just wanted to make it happen. The access of a network security team to information and threats is better considered; again, more consultation. It's all this way to a better approach, but the bill was originally in the scheme of consultation, and in a better direction than the post-and communications agency wants to go in this case, which is extremely arbitrary and I used a little big word about it in the beginning at 1st. ... aboutthiscase. Towards the publication as it was in the consultation recommendations and the proposals of the post and communications agency, they have a word for it. It's come a long way from where it was and it's much better now. The main comment I make with the bill and the reason why I can't support it, I don't scribble it as an agent, is the chapter on the cost and value, the last chapter. The bill assumes the cost of over half a billion a year in the years to come. There's nothing more to explain why the cost is so great. When I asked for an explanation at that expense, I did not get any answers. You can imagine the need to buy equipment here and there, and this could well be the expected part of the section for government agencies. It may well be, I don't know because I didn't get the answers about it. The commission says, with permission from the President: ▪ In view of the new project and the implementation of key functions, the Commission may direct the cost to the Ministry for reevaluation of the costs in the implementation of the law. I make a comment to this kind of work, that we accept a little open check in this regard, although this may come in financial terms later, since we need to accept it again, but we really don't know about the financial scope of these laws and what other options we may have to influence the cost. There's an open check on how animal export is selected. The right kind of work in this would be to get the expense food and the explanation first before we go to agree to the bill. It also says, with the permission of the President, the budget has to be assumed for the implementation of the law's financial programme and the funding of the next year, [...] that the law's execution will be suspended on September 1, 2020. The problem with this is that we are now dealing with the budget of the 2020 and plus, 2020-2024. It is in 2020 that will probably come for some cost, but it is not expected in the current financial programme, hence it is not in budgets for the next year compared to the financial programme. There are four months there at the end, perhaps there will be no costs in the four months, but it may well be if it did the work more efficient and put it to work at the right time, or before, and the recovery is done at once, but it can't be done because it's not expected in financial terms, and then it's a natural loss in this regard. The results of the bill are pretty good. There will be experience in this cooperation, which is a fairly large question mark of how much cooperation will be, but it's only a matter of maintenance that I hope those people involved in the agreement with the government will inform the General if they don't think it's an understanding. We certainly need to have some monitoring of the fact that this is being done in the way the Council is saying that there is a real consultation, not a forced understanding or something like it. There's something I hope to do well and that I'm going to hear about doing well. Because of the cost-and-value process, I just think it's wrong to get an analysis afterwards and check for the cost and if it's as expected. I find a problem with cost estimates in the law or in the start line of government finance laws, which relies on the opinion that this is possibly wrong. And then you ask: According to government law: Is there a problem there if we cannot rely on the expense of the bill being right? I think that there is a fault with the laws on public finances that are just to ensure this foundation, that we have informed agreement on how this affects the economy. In view of the circumstances we now face in reviewing financial and financial policies, there are no small sums of 500 million each year. If you're going to add another 500 million a year, I don't know what. So I would have liked to see why the cost is and that other exports would come to begin while we're dealing with the situation we're in right now. It's my message into this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u21	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees about a bill to legalize a change in rents, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has made visitors, as mentioned in the committee, as well as the hearsay, but the bill suggests a change in the 50th grade. The rent contract does not automatically fail at the end of a contract if an employee is an employee of a landlord. Instead, both parties will be granted the resignation of the contract. According to the directive, the tenant home is an unpredicted resignation of the contract within eight weeks of retirement, but of the renter's authorization for resignation according to Article 1. 56. g. A rent. As shown in the Treaty, it refers to improving the rights of tenants as a very important task and the taking up of an elected period of time. In fact, this bill is a product of the speculations, as well as of the biography agreements. Therefore, it is important that this case be addressed and completed. It's been borne, like a dog. Congress officials know that renting is not trusty enough, especially when renters are also hired by landlords. In this regard, the reasons are very important that security has to crowd out the interests of others because of renting their home back. Actually, the bill is presented in that spirit. The joint review of the Association of Employment, the Association of Tourism, and the Industrial Association expressed some concern over what the bill would be like if it went into effect and in some way. While worried that it might be difficult for a landlord not to have access to his home right away, I suggest again that despite the problems that may arise with an employer at the end of an employee, housing is probably always more important. Although the committee agrees with the concerns presented in the review, it does not change the fact that the committee feels that this change is important. A discussion on the committee pointed out that the terms "Subjects 1 " were rendered. The bill would not be clear enough when it came to talking about types of housing, to form in the absence of an entire apartment or housing. This is taken into account by the committee in their adjustments. It was noted that it might be unclear when a worker obtained a twofold rent - rent housing, either that it was not clear whether the terms for contracts would be less than money, such as work supply, and it would be uncertain as to what would happen in the absence of a written agreement. However, the committee believes that the bill is a clear goal of stipulation 1. comprising these events, indicating that on a scale of 1 mg. 10th par. On the other hand, rent contracts are considered contracts made by tenants who failed to negotiate written contracts. The committee suggests a change to make it more clear. It was noted that employers could avoid the increased demand of the bill by making contracts and contracts short-term employment contracts. If it does, the Commission believes that the objective of the bill is not fully met, and therefore the Commission suggests that the temporary agreement on housing can never be less than a temporary employment contract by an employee. Finally, Mr. President, I refer to the last paragraph of the Committee opinion, in which the committee directs it to the Ministry of Social Affairs to consider the circumstances of employees who live in homes owned by professional drivers and how they may react to the poor management of such facilities or serious committees of these agreements. This is important. While these laws are not directly understood, they may be responsible for some of the laws on health committees, the laws on how to handle such matters, the manner of loyalty, and the safety at work. However, it would be wise for the Ministry to examine specifically whether such cases could be handled with better legal equipment. As members of the Parliament are aware, the need for short - term labor is likely to remain, and the importance is that once there is a short - term clump in a facility that may not be directly a job house, so that health committees and such laws might not be considered specifically. The committee has a revised proposal presented in the committee's opinion, and they share in the opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature is under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason all sign in advance, while other members of the committees, who have a view of writings, are subject to the background. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Ingi Insson and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u22	Mr. President. I recommend to the Economic and Business Commission for a bill to correct the changing of the stock exchange law, No. 108/2007. The bill suggests a change in the access rights of a minister to set up a Regulation on the basis of the terms on stock exchange, No. 108/2007. It is suggested that legal requirements be added to set up in a Regulation allowing the Commission to take valid descriptions and supplementary measures, i.e. Information which has been confirmed by the European Commission in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/11229 on a description to be published on the general market or taken up as a trade and as a result of the Directive 2003/71/EC (Prospectus 3 type). The European Parliament's Directive and the Council Directive 2003/71/EC (Prospectus 1), as amended by the Directive 2010/73/ESB (Prospectus 2), provide an appropriate description of the description of the stock trade. This rule of action requires consistent rules that allow descriptions, confirmed by the relevant control authority within the EEA, to be recognized across the border. In June 2017, the EU agreed with a new Regulation on descriptions, Prospectus 3, which gains a value on July 21st. and thus disqualifying earlier regulations. The procedure also includes new guidelines for the recognition of established cross-border descriptions. Prospectus 3 aims include: to ensure investment protection and effectiveness of markets and to improve the availability of enterprises in financing by streamlining the rules and administration procedures. Prospectus 3 was set up in the EEA Convention with a decision made by the European Commission in March. It should be noted that the General has already agreed to a synonym, as it were. 1309 in case of No. 660 to cut off controlled alert for Prospect 3 The main contribution of this bill is the position that will be created after the Prospect 3 implementation within the EEA July 21st. and will exist until legislation on the implementation of Prospectus 3 has become valid in this country. It is predicted that during this period the reporting system between countries could not be used as the current description rules. This means, on the other hand, that the SEC could not accept valid descriptions confirmed by the monitoring authority of other countries within the EEA and which would have been on the basis of Petrospectus 3. However, this means that the reporting of confirmed reports of the Economic Commission, based on current legislation on the country, would not be valid for other surveillance authorities in the EEA. It is anticipated that this temporary position will thus lead to uncertainty for publishers and may result in increased costs associated with double registration. If the bill is legal, the former temporary problems can be solved in part, i.e. On the basis of the UN warrants of the Commission to accept valid descriptions of the European Commission, with a change in Regulation. Work on a bill for the induction of Petrospectus 3 is in the priority of the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The design is expected to be implemented by a reference method and is published as well as the decision of the European Commission in the EEA's Environment Action Programme with the Commission report of the EU; therefore, it is essential to the contributions of that bill. It is hoped that such publication will be achieved as soon as possible, thus allowing a bill to be introduced into the model at the 2019◯2020 Law Council. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be addressed to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u23	Mr. President. In budgets for 2019, the government proposed that the special property savings could be used to cover mortgages and into condos. The middle class made a change in the budget that this law would remain in effect. The government made that adjustment. Then the Central Party delivered a law bill of the same material that has not been given here. I rejoice in this conversion of the government, that it is now taking such a great deal of the Central Party's motion, deciding to extend this law. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is part of the correction of the debt, one of the best economic operations for later years. [[Up front, come on.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u24	Mr. President. The bill is a factor in the promotion of the abuse of a well - known phenomenon that in everyday terms is called social security. It is ten years after four members of the Parliament gave a bill at the General Assembly of this material, but the legislatator has shown unacceptable tolerance. Industrial organizations have been harsh in their criticism of the social landmarks of modern employment. The organization of industry and ASI has fought this for years. A report by the Minister's Working Group since January. For social subsidiary and crime at work, this is at the top of the sheet, taking on the social security network in a decisive way. This bill is taking steps in the right direction, but it is better if sufficient. The cost of individuals, families, rural and government funds in Iceland has to continue to be fought. So, of course, I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u25	A respectable president. We now vote to lower the value tax on women's contraception methods, as well as various tourist attractions. By our vote, we went further on making this great legal and equality legalized during this council. As a messenger, of course, I rejoice over that stage to be the result of the vote by which I have convinced myself that it will be. I thank Iceland's Women's Rights Association, the Feminian Organization, the Nurse, the Aðalsteinn Baldursson of Baldurson and the Feminist Association of the University of Iceland for sending in positive and upbuilding comments on this matter at this assembly. I'd like to thank your last client, i.e. HI's Feminist Association, particularly for holding a seminar meeting with representatives of all classes where this matter and its progress were given at the council. I have no doubt that the meeting had a positive effect on the situation today. In addition, Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir, Prosecutor Porta, thank you for putting the matter first on the part of Pirata as well as on the other hand. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for working the bill with her and winning the case for what? The Economic and Business Committee, which, of course, should also be thanking for good work in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u26	A respectable president. We're here paying votes on tax loss bill and huge equality issues. The vote can't be any better. Thank you. Martyrs for providing the bill. This illustrates how good things can work out here at the council. I want to thank everybody too. Councilmen who spoke to us yesterday. What a pleasure it was to see how much the Icelandic conquistadores feel about this matter and to speak up! This clearly shows that we are in a good place in terms of equality in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u27	A respectable president. I'm glad that this Parliament's resolution is so positive to the Congress's proposal to promote Icelandic as an official case in Iceland. It is a matter of progress, of strengthening the foundations, and of the most important importance is that we use English, and it is an open and warm approach to our language. This is a 22 - point operation program, and I'm convinced that by means of it we will achieve our goals, first of all, that Icelandic will be used in all fields, and that the future of the Icelandic language in a digital world will be guaranteed. Finally, I want to thank the General and Education Committee for the most extraordinary amount of work, especially its chairman, and all the guests who came and made good and helpful comments on this council resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u28	A respectable president. It's not every day, i.e. I don't know, I don't know, much and seldom, that we have new school plans, I may say not quite a new school level, in Iceland. It's a breakthrough. High school answers a high demand for higher education options for large groups of young people. It is new in Iceland that individuals are available to live and study in schools where traditional academic and test scores are not emphasized. Icelanders have a unique position among neighboring countries in terms of the withdrawal of young people from high school. This is a concern, so we need to act and look for solutions. There are many indications that we need to adjust our school system even more so that young ones and their needs, fewer people who experience themselves in the land of nothing. Civil - school law tries to increase the number of education options, and it is well - chosen. So I vote with this law with special pleasure and especially great conviction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u29	A respectable president. I'm sitting by here, but there's no special opposition in itself to the article, but at a different lecture, I just didn't quite like the last saying, and I can't, with a good conscience, vote with him at this point, but I blame no one for voting with him, end the rest of the article very thorough and positive like the overwhelming part of this bill. I'll also sit next to 1 1 1. so changed but will vote with the Commission's declarations, on the other hand. That's the same explanation, I'm not quite sure about the extraction there. I just don't feel quite comfortable voting with her because I'm not completely convinced that this is the right way to go, but in another way support the matter, except for one other law that I will go into after.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u30	A respectable president. Personal protection sent in a review and made two comments on this point, i.e. The value of the law on security and defence. The committee met with the comment on the second of the three - mg indications. Section 3. However, he decided not to meet the Persianist perspective on the 5th army of the 37th par. and has reasons for this, including that there will come a time when the personal protection protocols will separate safety and protection from the national defences and other measures in the future will deal with this. I understand the logic, and I understand that the committees vote with it and accept an explanation, but it's not quite enough for me personally, so I'm going to sit by this particular arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u31	A respectable president. One of the comments on reporting in computer systems and in the bill was a regulation authority, which the committee actually canceled, requiring that an information system set up by 6 May 2016 was reserved for an operation registration. However, it was noted that in accordance with Regulation, these systems were to have an operation registration, but the committee met the point of view by setting the sunset rules that we are here to vote for. That is until May 6, 2026, i.e. At this point, all software systems and information systems should have this operation registry. In my opinion, this registry should be immediately available. I believe it is in accordance with local regulations and I think it should remain. Although I made it a point to include time, effort, and money in a series of information systems, I don't think that that would be a good reason for the Council to relax that, of course, the other requirement. So I vote against this particular arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u32	President. There's an agreement on the bill and the committee opinion and adjustment proposals we'll vote for here but after 2nd. Today's point was made to a 15 - year - old. The bill, concerning the deadline of the Enlightenment Commission, changes information law in a way that explains 23 paragraph. bill: as soon as possible, i.e. The decision-making committee should be performed as soon as possible. The reason was that in administrative law this principle is the principle, but first, a media official who pointed out this was not aware, we have decided to put it between 2 and 3. ... awrong.: ▪ As soon as possible Then they are in the bill text itself, and then there is the natural 150 - day delay in it, but they just add this expression: as soon as possible, so it is in the bill text. No one, then, needs to wonder whether this is the principle. The bill is also called in to the management and monitoring committee to do this between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u33	President. Since I'm so old as I am on grass, you can see and don't rely on me to remember about the 3rd. But recalling it now, and so is it that if I can remember something, I really need to do it right away, simply come up here to commend. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, the chairman of the case, for being very comfortable with the matter. The talk he gave earlier shows just how he has kept awake, how he has kept watch over what needs to be done to get things done best, and I wanted to thank you for this in case I forget about the 3rd. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u34	A respectable president. I want to make it clear that this proposal is very well recommended by our cousins in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. They look in awe here at the success of Icelandic athletes, soccer, basketball, and handball, see the edification of gymnasiums, and there's a lot of work around sports. They are interested in having a share in it, and that is why this proposal has come out. We're watching what's going on in sports, and football's playing this weekend, and we're just saying, "Go on, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u35	We vote, a respectable president, on the common proposal of the Western states of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. Our language is under attack, influenced mainly by English. Icelanders have developed even tools or have successfully advanced the development of tools in the digital world we see today. Whether the great brother in that company can do something is considered to be a matter of opinion because all these countries, Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands are concerned about the future of their tongue. Here it is suggested that a small team of professional workers be appointed to determine whether mutual success is not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u36	Mr. President. A similar proposal was introduced and adopted at the Arctic Council of last year, and this proposal can be viewed as actually meeting the conditions we set for ourselves and other nations in this area to cooperate in language technology, both with the practical language and now with other languages that can also benefit from our work. Good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u37	A respectable president. This is a very good example of how good we have now, e.g. ... tocontact. An example is the Board of Directors. There, this case came in completely ruined, completely, but there were some suggestions from people who knew about it. They were taken into account. The bill came much better into the council because of it, working, as it were. As a result, more and more parts are added to the committee program, but there is a comment I have about the expense and cost of the bill. This results in costing half a billion a year, and the exact cost is not explained. It is suggested that there be a cost analysis after approval which is very strange and does not fit in with financial and financial schemes. [[The president calls.]] There's a year that really doesn't. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'll vote for the change of motion, but I'll just sit by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u38	They're talking about the votes for one minute, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u39	A respectable president. This is where we vote on matters that will be a turning point, of course, since we are covering a new network and information network security projects. I want to use this opportunity and thank you very much for the cooperation of the Committee in the process and agree with it. A senator who spoke before, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, that we improved the situation there further. As shown in this case, having a good conversation and getting the criticism and helpful discussion are very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u40	A respectable president. Here's a vote for important aspects of tenants' rights. However, I would like to mention and emphasize the recommendations made by the Environment and Transport Committee to the Department of Social Affairs to review rents and follow-up with the legislation we are setting; to observe how this affects housing in the scattered areas where employers might need housing where there is little housing and hard work to do, preferably for tourism and more. Also, monitoring for how this affects contracts, whether they have become shorter or otherwise. This is a very important thing, but the consequences need to be monitored, and I wanted to emphasize them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-07-119.u41	The President wishes before he finishes a meeting. All council members and their families joyfully Pentecostals and citizens of all lands, and especially members of the council. The president would also like to thank the members of the council, all as one, for the fine work they did over the last few weeks as well as for another period of time.
