ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u1	It is suggested by the president that a meeting may last longer than the Council of Congress. - They want a vote on that matter. The threshold is that a meeting is still in line, so the president is waiting for a moment at this vote. She will have to cancel the discussions about the council. There's a vote on the President's proposal on the length of a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u2	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-be counsellors to provide written answers to queries; from the foreign secretary for the application of the inquiries. 1087, on committees, staff, professional groups and Ministry council, from Inga Sæland; from the Minister of Justice for a petition on deck. 1275, on the custody and treatment of curfew, from Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdóttir; and on the threshing floor. One hundred and seventy-five, of the chief of police in the capital area, to experts, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter. Finally, there is a letter from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 1173, through the sea farm, from the Sæland Goad; on the threshing floor. 1174 on fish farms, from Sæland Gaand and on cod. 1128, about salmon and fish lice, from Inga Sæland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u3	Mr. President. Recently, the person standing here asked about the borrowing of Iceland's Secret Bank to Copenhagen, October 6, 2008. Parts of questions were referred to Iceland's Department of Reports on that loan, on its behalf and on the outcome and the collection of the loans. There is a number of interesting information that we find in the Hall Bank report. One thing that caught my attention is that the bank is now primarily thinking about the present and the future and has not taken the time to examine what happened in the past until we produce this report. That's what I think is quite reprehensible, since what was at stake and what was discussed was a serious guess. The report shows, however, that there was an extreme damage in the case of the loans at Copenhagen during the time. In fact, it is surprising that in an institution such as the Secret Bank, even though much went on at that time, there is no record of anyone asking for a loan, on what basis the loan was granted, or not even whether the pledge of the gambling was available. I think there's good reason to look at this rather than in the report because it's obvious that there was the bank's board of directors in total pieces. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u4	The president would like to inform us regarding verbal exchanges earlier that the president intends to have a brief meeting with the members of Congress after the discussion on the matter of the council and then be briefly interrupted at this meeting. The President's proposal for the duration of a meeting will be held after the end of a meeting, which could be about 10:30.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u5	Mr. President. Each government should put in place financial policies as soon as possible at the beginning of each terms, and this course should apply to five years of age. The present government has certainly handled some fairly casual government laws on public finance until now, but now it seems that there will be a new development for financial policy every year. When financialism was presented to the first of this government, a number of experts warned that it was based on all too optimistic economic leaders and would not stand. The government chose to ignore these warning words and has worked after that financial policy for the past 14 months or so, but now saw its power to promote a new financial policy that allows for a headlash at the state fund for the next four years. It is interesting to consider the reasons behind the new, actually unsolved, financial policy of this government, since it allows no room for the economy to be rather weaker than expected in the current economic economy. This is of interest, especially in the fact that there is a significant impact on the economy this year, but we will continue to continue as if nothing had happened to the next one. Keep in mind that the officials of the tourism service have pointed out that there is nothing in their maps to indicate that this will be the case. It is obvious here that the government has to assume that this may be more difficult than today's economy is expected. But it is decided that we will re-enact it and continue to gratify government spending in an unprecedented way. So it will be exciting to deal with discussions about the government's new financial policies in a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u6	A respectable president. Slug. Wednesday was formally opening up a new Coastal Coastal Cartilage Station in the Western Islands. Preparation for this building actually began in 2006, but the current building of the facility began in April 2017 and began in October 2018. It's a 10.4 MW and it's the second largest in the world. The project is primarily set up to save the cost, not to increase the company's resources. It is safe to say that this direct force for house warming in the Western Islands is a rose in a button-gain innovation in Iceland. Iceland's innovation center was responsible for the design of the stations, and she's and all work and the role of this project as an example to all. Injecting up 8°C hot water. It removes 4°C as a heat source that turns into steam, but the ammonia sachet is minus 33°C, i.e. 4°C is warmed into steam, and it is then used to warm up water in a closed system for house warming in the Western Islands. It's an amazing project. The remainder of the injected water is pumped out of the water by Eryi, but along the way, the ocean's seawater vessels are using cool water to pump aboard and use in cooling systems. The fishing vessels thus save tremendous amounts of energy to inject 12 °C in hot water and cool it down with oil to 2°C. The project is very well - thought - out and well put out, Icelandic innovations to praise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u7	A respectable president. During the spring months, there has been a World Council bill for changes in fish farms. A professional health - care committee has discussed the matter and has worked hard to cover changes, ending much at stake. One of the most important changes by bill is the legalisation of the Agency to evaluate the potential number of farmers in rivers and provide advice based on a assessment called risk assessment. The risk assessment under law should then take into account counter-to-target measures which should minimise the risk of cranial strokes and measures to be taken if a possible run-off is possible. Is the change and legalisation of these counter measures absolutely key because they further reduce the likelihood of fire's harmful effects, thus contributing to environmental management and better reconciliation with other interests. Clearly, there are differing opinions about fish fires, methods, benefits, and consequences. Fish farming has been practiced to some extent here in the last few decades and has not been successful in initial experiments. There were many things, technology, and equipment, and knowledge that were not at the present stage. A respectable president. Icelanders have associated with the resources of the sea with respect for centuries. Based on this experience in the construction of fish farms, support for traditional fishing grounds, and other employment opportunities develop those making sea value. When sailors of old expelled from the sea, they prayed for a seafaring prayer, asking a good breeze to follow them away from home and home safely, thanking them for the savings that the sea provided. They knew that they were merely part of the nature they had, but they were not masters. Consider the culture and humility guided by ancestors and mothers. Happy sailor's Day, my sailors and Icelanders all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u8	A respectable president. I can't help talking about the Senate's work at the end of the council and what position we are in after sitting here day and night and discussing the third energy package. For 133 hours this matter has been discussed here. According to my knowledge, there have been a lot of misdeeds in this discussion. It's, for example. It is clear that the course proposed here at the payment of the third energy package is in violation of the constitution. There were many times over it at the moment. The U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs and everybody agrees. A cable was also very frequent in our discussion. State Department. And, as one lawyer who visited us, Skúli Magnússon said, it is legal to argue that a third energy package will lead to the obligation of the Icelandic state to sea cables. If you think you can persuade the Icelandic state to connect with an electrical cable, this risk has been at hand for 25 years, and a third energy package does not change that. But it is exactly part of our induction now to make clear that a sea cable will be placed only with the approval of the Generals. Thus, the energy package is not really about resource management in the Member State. Decisions on how to use our resources will remain in the domain of those whom this hall commands. And a pack of three energy doesn't require personalisation of the energy companies. Such decisions will always be on the hands of the government of the United States, and this does not mean that national activation is a private thing. A respectable president. I have to direct them to what they say. The members of the Central Party for this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 133 hours. In contrast, the Norwegian Council used four and a half hours to discuss the exact same matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u9	Mr. President. Yesterday, Strategies Day, an article in the News Journal was published after the night. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. Hv. A senator is an excellent writer and would usually be more reason to commend the senator than to abuse him. But this article disappointed me greatly. The senator makes statements that do not hold his opinion, and the question is, Is it true here in this torture? So, in particular, am I referring to claims that aims, or one of the goals, by bill on the Federal Bank, are ordering party quality to the office of the bank manager. The fact is, the appropriate conditions and conditions for fitting committees remain different from the changes made in the long administration of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in 2009. But why am I making this a subject? That's because I'm disappointed in being treated like that by a good boy. The President's permission bill on the Federal Bank is presented: The head of the bank and the vice bank manager of money policy shall have completed a field of economics or related articles and have a wide range of experience and knowledge of financial and economic and money. It also states that the bank manager has good reputation, should never have been convicted of a criminal act on public penalties or financial laws. In other words, there is exactly no evidence to support the claim. A senator on this subject. Mr. President. Might have a reason. A senator made a mistake, and the situation is different. Then there may be nothing more than a so - called "baloney statement " - but ◯ all of us have become quite accustomed here to talk about other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for warm words to me. I know from my earlier work as a writer that people would often want to talk to me about my writing and ask me what I had with the other things and even signing up my interpretations. I've always received that kind of thing well, and I also realize that interpretations can be a lot of different parts of what you write. I think I'll be just what I want. A senator to interpret my writings freely, yet he would have accepted a small warning of the questions as well. A senator pointed to me, as I understand, when it is spoken to members of the council under this team, that they will have a little time to address these questions. But this time it wasn't saluting. It is under these laws to increase the number of bankers. As we are only middle - aged, we know exactly what it means when the party power, the category system, has the opportunity to increase the number of bankers. It represents a 50-50 bill. And a 50-50 bill represents amateurs. This means that the groups place their lovers in office. The late bank was a sort of Florida government government for many years. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid Florida is being restored by this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u11	President. As we have seen, a revised financial policy has been put forth in the light of different circumstances. I have often found the financial debate a bit unusual, as well as the financial agenda proposed earlier this year. It is as if some believe that a financial program proposed, e.g. should be expected that a private company in a town's head would probably have been the first time that it had been done to a company that was fighting for their lives and could have even had serious consequences there. But let it go. The financial policy was adopted in 2018, and it naturally followed the Economic Standards' National Standards from November 2017, expecting a total economy to grow by about 14% throughout the prophecy period. Since then, the criteria have changed. They're going to go over it in what these fundamental changes are. According to the World Health Organization, economics are expected to decrease by 0.2% in 2019 and we are looking at the changed situation that for the first time since 1992, economic growth will be negative, to collapse, without of course. A respectable president. Plans are always subject to uncertainty. That's a plan of action. They are based on analyses, e.g. The Habitat analysis. It is not responsible or natural to base it on anything more than that. Governments that do not change schedules to conform to reality are simply not responsible governments. Since the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir is responsible government, Catherine's government has produced a new policy based on reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u12	Mr. President. Climate change is the greatest threat to life on earth as we know it. It's a threat that's not far away, it's happening today. Our kids see this and they've had enough. Now it is time to see the seriousness of the changes taking place. This threat requires a number of measures, changes in attitudes, changes in consumption practices, higher capitals from government and private companies. We need to limit the amount of plastic we use. We have palm oil to ban in order to mention just one thing. In economics, we talk a lot about financial motivation, and I think we need to use financial motivation in the fight against climate change. Prices are one of the main factors in the behavior of companies and people, and taxes are thus one way to achieve this goal. Transmission taxes are in themselves the only acceptable taxes. In today's world, pollution is too cheap. Pollution is too cheap. I noticed yesterday an advertisement from a single gas company claiming that only seven should be dropped. each litre of gallons flows into the recovery of wetlands to make up the carbon tracks. I wondered if we should simply add an additional charge to the carbon, a special climate charge, or a natural charge, at 7 k. to deal with the problem. Similarly, only London and Copenhagen would need to be raised by 2,000 pm. to restore the resulting carbon tracks. I also wondered, Mr. President, that the magnitude of this terror is of such a chancer that when mankind rose up against a common threat 80 years ago and World War II rose. [[The president calls.]] Likewise today, the nations of the world need to rise up and face the threat that confronts, no matter what the cost, for inactivity costs even more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a coal - black report on organized crime. There are many things that are frightening to witness. While some of these aspects were in the discussion, it can be said that they are authenticated in this report. The analysis department points out that the misuse of public reform systems, employment services, escape systems, and shelterers, as well as a number of social services available. The report says that police research exposes organized misuse of foreign criminals and groups of public services in Iceland. In some cases these groups are likely to be aided by Icelandic citizens and/or foreign residents living here. In this connection, the analysis department points out that fractures are found in public systems, both within the individual institutions and in their cooperation. It is indicated that a horrified person who arrives here may be made out of contact in a country that takes away the funds he is paid from public funds. In some cases, there are contacts in this country that know the local standards and welcome systems and provide individuals, even groups, assistance, according to the report. The analysis department reports that many of the organized crime groups that have taken root in this country come from Eastern Europe, Poland, Lithuania, Romania, and Albania, e.g. the department knows about three groups from the same Eastern European Union. The report says: ▪ Police research shows that individuals associated with these three groups have been granted international protection in Iceland, including the U.S.A. on the basis of sexual orientation. Several of these men from an Islamic state have been charged with sexual harassment toward women in this country. ... Statistics and bank accounts are basic factors in money thefts and contributions from funds funded by organized violations. A case that police have studied shows that several members of these groups used the same social security number as that. could hide his life in the country, but at the same time engage in black work. The leader of one group has spent tens of millions of dollars in the last year. The same person has accepted many forms of social assistance, including financial support at the same time. [[The president calls.]] This is a very serious case, a respectable president, and we must act on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u14	A respectable president. This section discusses the activities of the council, which are still behind the scenes, in committees, while the public is facing this platform, this kind of thing like one of the cast-pictures where the same movement is displayed over and over and over again. The same people come up here into the platform and exchange the same talks with the same objections, so one would think of a man named Stefán G. about a man who loved to hear himself talk, by permission of the president: Art is that too and work little to shred to memory, always in blisters to be diluted ... theinflectionof all the others. You even think of Bubbi Morthens' lines: 'He talked and talked, purring and purring. Even Einar Ben's line comes to mind from the poem Stark: 'Is it spoken here one word never before known?' Then, too, we can review the poem of Sigfús Daðason, a word that happens to these lines by permission of a president: Anyway, I'd like to ask a man How to Treat Words With Care they may explode and yet the rest is more dangerous That it can burn in the powder. Mr. President. We talk about the word when someone speaks, gives the word, for the word is free, but the other, taking the word, snatching it, and taking it as his property - it's a lot. In this regard, it may be highly abusive to speak of violent men, perhaps wordmakers. A respectable president. I'd like to pray to God for his word. It's not supposed to be a spoil, it's supposed to be the dimension we meet in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u15	A respectable president. A report brought my attention to the report that last week, a surgeon had published a report on a so - called government campaign that is involved in replacement operations. Over the course of the 20th century, the application has increased by six times, six times as many have gone abroad for replacement operations, while the cost has increased by seven times. You ask yourself, " Is this your normal priorities? ' Is it normal for us to send people to foreign countries with many increased costs at home? What is the course of health care that we observe? It is not only that the health - care professional goes abroad during the operation; he also needs to bring with him an escort. Everything is paid, day money, support, and travel expenses, while we have professionals, experts who can do such operations at home. I ask myself, " Is it not the wrong thing to do when health care is so controlled that it is really not possible to use the experts we have at home to carry out such operations? Rather, are the patients and those who are in need of the operations being sent abroad? ' I just think it's a sad course, that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u16	A respectable president. A recent report, called a black report, was published by state police diagnostics. It tells of the tremendous danger of organized crime. Of course, this should be taken seriously. Still, it is worth remembering that there are more threats to life than crime, and it is the way the authorities sometimes react to them in a bad way by overreacting, e.g. by giving police authorities too much authority to enter the personal life of individuals on the grounds that the public is being protected. This is always why governments go too far in the so - called Western world. Also, the types of crimes mentioned are related to how society has decided to address certain human behavior. One of them is drug abuse. In my opinion, it is fundamental to the authorities that society wants to be drug free. This is not the case, considering that alcohol is legal and all of it, but when authorities plan to deal with women by making it even more difficult to stay here, if they intend to deal with the disaster of drug abuse by making it worse with drug users, I believe the authorities are making mistakes. When facing threats such as organized crime, we must be careful that we do not forget why these crimes usually happen. Of course, it is not just because authorities make excessive rules, that is, because there are people who are willing to treat one another badly, and we are to deal with them. As I say, we should take this seriously, but we must not forget to look at ourselves as well and wonder how the problems can be solved by some other method but more aggressive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u17	A respectable president. As much as I would like to talk about financialism here - hopefully enough time for that, or very likely - I'd like to talk about the Congress of Porta that has not been discussed. Now, 15 members of the Pirata Parliament have made it through the 1st. but they're stuck on committees. 29 Porta conferences have not even been deemed acceptable. That list is long and good. It speaks of improved management in relationships, electronics, and computerized releases on government news and a legal newspaper. It's the right of the election, to stop having to check into an election file. It is signing and validating the third optional book with the United Nations Children's Covenant. It's a suspension of 208 empty songs. There is a bill on maternity and parentorum, two basics on the handling of private matters, case in the case of civility, and argument support in verbal deliberation. It is the bill on electronic real estate and the status reports of real estate, the establishment of a U.S. U.S. senator, the establishment of the government technical director, the personal term on the contrary to categories, the terms of individual affairs, holidays peace, free property linked to Christian funds, public finances, i.e. the number of financial agencies and the timing of financial contributions. There is a bill on authorship, that computers can learn Icelandic without paying in particular. It's a decommissionment of pension because of failure. It's about alcohol, housekeeping, Iceland's national anthem that a little Jimmy Hendrix and a Queen version of the national anthem can be obtained. Iceland's Foreign Service, the order of the Ministry and ambassador, child law, birthplace of the child, again on the birth and parentorof, stillbirths, fishing management, free coastal fishing, legal, annual accounts of a partner, increased access to annual accounts and partnerships. It is a green covenant, and the independence of the church, no less. These issues have not even been reached in 1st. I'm particularly complaining about it because a lot of coming here is to start the discussion and to take over the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u18	Last week a report on a waiting list in the health system was submitted, and at the same time, it was found that an average of 1,000 people have been waiting for replacement operations in this country for some time. It also turned out last week that Iceland's Medical Insurance has issued a contract with private rooms that have done cataract surgery with very effective results and significantly shortened a waiting list. There was also a statement from medical insurance published earlier on the increase in the cost of replacement operations abroad. What was in common with all the news was that it seemed to surprise all those in the situation. There, a health minister surprised that there were 1,000 people on the waiting list. It has been maintained for at least 2430 months. It came as a surprise to the director of health insurance that sending people abroad for action was costing money. This does not indicate that humans are involved with what they are dealing with. Mr. President. In the 3rd. patient rights, No. 74/1997, says so, by permission of President: A patient has the right to the most advanced medical care available at any given time. A patient has the right to a service based on his or her condition and prospects at any given time and the best knowledge available.• This law of patient law is broken in Iceland every day. This must end with some of the 1,000 waiting for a replacement surgery to sue a health minister for violating patient law. So I refer to a cover that has been set up for the occasion called the requested postoperative period. There people can gather and attend a group talk against the health minister, as it should. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u19	The president had an appointment with the members of Congress, and at that meeting, it was informed that the leaders intend to have a meeting at this time. 11 on the situation, looking for ways to negotiate. Thus, the decision of a meeting of the chairman with members of Congress was to step aside only from a series of events during such advances and to start a discussion on the sixth part of the program, after which the program will be held as wind goes on, but there will be no discussion of the 25th and 31nd and 32. At the beginning, the president proposed a proposal for the duration of a meeting and was requested a vote for that proposal. In this regard the president would like to mention that it is such that the length of meetings based on certain limitations applies to meetings within the Work Programme, as stated in Article 10. Parliamentary meetings: The most recent meeting according to the work programme should be held no longer until the end of the term. 8 afternoon, in 1996, etc. The tradition has developed here over the past few years that after a work programme is out, there is no particular need to make suggestions for longer meetings, although they are often almost inevitable as part of completion of Congress. Nevertheless, the president would like to know the mind of the hall, so he now proposes that a conference can last longer than a Senate meeting, but he would like to have this warning that in itself there is not necessarily a need for such things after a protocol has been replaced by the tradition and interpretations made here. The vote for President's proposal is now under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u20	Mr. President. I understand what the president is asking for today's longer conference. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u21	Hv. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u22	I understand what the president is asking for today's long conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u24	Noh. In view of the time when that day will end. 12 at midnight, and now it's Friday, I'd suggest that the meeting be on time. 23rd If the meeting be extended thereafter, it will be announced to a new vote for the extension of the meeting. Of course, I fully support the proposal that a meeting meeting can last longer than it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u25	This is the traditional wording, which means that a meeting meeting may last longer. 20 tonight. How long is such a different matter, as we have experienced in the past few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u26	A respectable president. There's something special coming up to say under this team. I guess I waited ten days to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u27	Two weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u28	Two weeks ago, yes, so that what really burned up on me 14 days ago may have begun to cool off a little like the lava in the Western Islands back then. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u29	The talks can be cut short.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u30	Yeah. Still, I'm going to remember what I really wanted to say. I'd like to wish the Minister and congratulate us on this course. In many respects, it is very good. It's been a pleasure working on a welfare committee. Of course, when health policy is first established for the country, there are not all aspects that people would prefer. It's not finished that we make it for the first time. I think in the big picture we're taking an enormously good step for the future. We will learn from it and improve the future course of health care. I would like to mention that this is a new view in many ways. Many have complained that there is a lack of certain aspects of this health policy, such as services to the elderly and the services of nursing homes as well as prevention and public health. Like I say, this isn't a complete document, of course, but it's very important to start this job. I also think it is very important to maintain bioavailability that health care will be ensured. We need to realize that, on a large scale, the country has had to attend its services to the capital, and the Landskeeper is not the health system. We need to ensure access to the area of the country to the health system. We've heard reports that young women can't bear children in their homes anymore. In Western countries, this is especially difficult. There's little or no birth service there, and there's born there, I think, one child last year. We should not forget that the country needs a good service. Of course, because all this special service is being taken to the capital area, transport is improved, which is the key to health care in many areas. I'd also like to call attention to the activities of organizations such as Hlísarkot and Sami, U.S.A., the Kryslavíví organization, the National Institute of Health in Hoast and Smokeyund. That's a good point, too. They are security agencies, and they too are taking some part of this course. It is extremely important, though, to promote procrastination. We see that the health system is blowing out, but the preventive measures have failed to get the attention and resources they need. I think it's one of the big issues that we need to continue, to promote prevention, to promote independent institutions that are doing an amazing job in this country. I'm not gonna have this much further. I may have forgotten something I was going to say, since I've been next to a rosary for two weeks, but I'm going to make it work. As I said at the outset: I congratulate the Minister on this and all of us. It will benefit us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u31	A respectable president. You cannot help but address this important matter and rejoice greatly that it has come out of the committee. I think this is where we're dealing with something very important. It is important to have a policy on how we will approach this group of subjects that involves threads of every person living here. I have to admit, I spoke up on the first. on this body of interpretation proposal and rejoice not only that it has arrived but also how it has been worked in cooperation and cooperation with many of the people involved in these matters. Meetings have been opened, and attention has been based on viewpoints that most people have. It doesn't necessarily have to be translated, rather than usually, that it is just as if I would have it or any other reason. Senators. Of course it is a cooperative project. I'd like to agree with that as much as possible. The head of health committees in their panel of committees stress that in a health policy implementation programme, public health will be emphasised on prevention and rehabilitation for all age groups to reduce the incidence and severity of lifestyle diseases and improve quality of life. I think this dot is very important, and I'm the highest. A health minister to look especially at him. We can see clearly in our health care providers how many more and more problems that have developed in the health system, or health - care projects, relate to life - style diseases in various ways. The importance of rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation services is discussed, which, of course, may vary according to individual needs. I know especially for the rehabilitation hospital Smoke Day, and I know that it is doing an amazing job every day, with full respect for other medical institutions that I know to do the same, but I think that in a medical discussion, we sometimes forget about the importance of a clinic such as Smokeloaf, which is an institution on a global scale that provides services in the field of rehabilitation as best happens in the world. Therefore, it is important to look for multiplicity in the management sector when it comes to health institutions. I specialise here a smokeloaf which is a self-employment institution owned by the SIBS. We have more cool and professional institutions that are run as private institutions. I would like to mention then the WUBS and the institutions mentioned earlier, the Hill Cut, and the Natural Medicine Association of Whos - why. Senator. [[The point is, don't forget it.]] These are all very important institutions, but they have different roles. I think it is very important that the health authorities have a clear framework for the type of services they perform from these independent units, whether they are automatons, such as those I have mentioned, or some sort of private business in the town of doctors and clinics. I think it is very important that we find a good answer to how the public health system operates on the individual initiative in these areas. I think it is extremely important that we look at the person, the patient himself, for the best possible service. It should always be our opening point, not the needs of relevant institutions or companies that provide services, but of the patient, that the patient is given as good a service as the ideal one. We sometimes forget about health matters because we look at what is bad, that, despite all things, we have a superior health - care system, one of the best in the world, but we also have the ambition to do even better, and we are certainly to do so. To reach our goals, we need to look for ways to provide patients for the best of our ministry, but we also need to do so in the most practical way. Therefore, you must look to where the ministry is best. I'm proud we have a university hospital, the Land Hospital on Ring Road, but I also think it's important to build up health care around the country and with more people than merely the Land Hospital. Then I refer to the self-employment agency I discussed here and the importance of a doctor's office and the private enterprise in that subject. A respectable president. I'm not going to say that it really matters to me how medical institutions are being run. It's not to my mind that it's a private business. My main concern is that we give the best of our service and that the individual has a choice when it comes to choosing someone who is serving. As a result, I think we need to consider that there is a certain combination in the presentation of health care. Then I'll repeat what I started, the importance of public health that I think is our major factor. We need to put far more emphasis on public health. I look forward to seeing how we will react to that point in the Committee's opinion on the implementation of this policy, how we put human health, prevention, and rehabilitation first, that this is really an important way to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of our health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u32	President. I would like to ask the president's explanation of why the program is suddenly changed, in view of the fact that I had already prayed for the word under the help that was being discussed. I had already asked for medical conferences, and only one talk has been made of this policy. I'm asking for President's explanation. Why is the matter not continued and allowed to be discussed with me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u33	It has been suggested to postpone a discussion of the 6th session for a while, but the president can assure us of the situation. A senator that he will be allowed to express himself on this subject. He's here on the rosary when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u34	V.E.G. President. I present a European Commission opinion on a proposal for the resolution of a contract to prevent any uncontrolled ocean fishing in the central part of the Arctic Ocean. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of State by Finnur Þór Birgisson and Arnór Snæbjörnsson by the Ministry of Employment and Development. The proposal suggests that the main objective of the North Sea Convention is to prevent control-free fishing in the Mediterranean Ocean in the central part of the Arctic Ocean, which has an area of approximately 2.8 million square miles [2.4 million square km] in size, in the sense of the United Nations Ocean Convention. Until now, this sea area has been covered with ice in most of the year, so fishing has not been possible. With changes in ice, water warming, salty conditions, and changing cycles, flows, and water flows no longer rule out how commercial fishing could become possible in this sea. The Convention is based on a precautionary approach and is aimed at ensuring that the protection and management measures for this marine region become part of a long-term strategy aimed at ensuring a healthy marine environment and ensuring the protection and sustainable use of fish stocks. According to the Treaty, members commit themselves on the one hand to prevent commercial fishing in the Convention, while there is scientific uncertainty as to whether such fishing can be carried on in a sustainable way. However, the agreement creates a framework for how to take the next steps when scientific information supports starting such a fishing process, taking into account relevant views on the management of fish and the impact of such fish on ecosystems, including a precautionary approach. It will then show that in the preparation of the North Sea Convention, the definition of the Convention was one of the more sensitive solutions of the negotiation agreements, including because of the legal status of the marine areas around Svalbard. Finally, a report shows that the implementation of the national contract calls for the European government to harm European fishing vessels to fish in the ocean in the middle of the Arctic Ocean, but no such fishing is being practiced today. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u35	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Such agreements are of utmost importance to control hunting in order to keep everything within reasonable limits and to make sure that it is not overcomprehensible. This is a contract that covers a vast area. The agreement is based on a hypodermic approach, as shown in a talk. The senator, and the important thing for us to be careful, do not overfish a number of strains that can benefit us or others because we do not want to sit on top with the sea half-empty fish that can be used. I'd like to ask the senator to review with us what is involved in the precautionary approach because I consider it a very important one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u36	A respectable president. I forgot to guess earlier that some members of the committee were not present when the matter was settled from the committee. I didn't realize to turn the page, but I can see why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was away when the case was settled from the committee on May 17th. I do not completely understand the question of what is involved in a precautionary approach other than what is stated in the committee's opinion, i.e. that until further information is available on the changes in the biosystem and the potential for these changes or subjects will include being careful in this area, until further scientific information is available on the impact on the biosystem, in accordance with local conditions. I can't explain it any more than that. There's a cautionary approach to the biosystem and to be careful about nature so that there might be a future sustainable fishing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u37	President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's right, and that's why I'm asked that I was away with some other members when the matter was settled from the committee. What I'm fishing for, if I may use that word, is this: What numbers were mentioned when people spoke about a precautionary approach? Are we talking about a number of millions of tons of stock and a man who decided to take 40% of it instead of 60%? I'm thinking about the context, what's the problem with the hypodermic approach? What criteria are set? Maybe it's not all that matters, Mr. Honorable President, but I still think it's necessary for us to have a picture of this. I assume this was discussed with the Committee. If not, it just doesn't extend beyond the test: What amount are we discussing with caution, advice, and all of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson very much for his answers. I can't see the report, and I don't remember any figures about tons of specific species being mentioned. As previously mentioned in this article, it is merely a precautionary approach because we know that the life system is changing. We do not know how and, as I said before, what opportunities and challenges these changes will involve. Therefore, people want to be careful until further research and knowledge of the region is available so that the environment can be used in a sustainable way to prevent damage to nature. It's good to keep this in mind that the senator mentioned and wondered, but I think it's later questions that the senator asks about tons and other matters. This case will remain at our table at the Council. This is not leaving us anywhere, so I suppose that discussion will take place at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u39	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for the resolution of a five-year telecommunication program for 2019-2023 and a proposal for the interpretation of telecommunications policies for 2019-52033. The five - year schedule is a relatively simple presentation, with a more detailed policy with both issues. As the president has explained, these cases are all in the specified Congress documents. Before discussing the opinion of the committee itself, I'd like to introduce to you that in addition to the issues recommended in December, the Environment and Transport Committee has had more communications issues on mail, two cases on the Internet and information security, and one issue on the practical structure of telecommunications infrastructure. In part, the discussion of these issues has become intertwined and has enabled the committee to cover much more than if these programs and policies had been considered exclusively. But to the committee. The committee has received a number of visitors from many places, and the commission received reviews from 14 sources and more than one report from some of them. A proposal for a resolution of telecommunication policies and proposals for the resolution of a five-year communication program are now presented for the first time in accordance with the law of No. 53/2018, the change in various laws to conform to transport, communication, rural and regional programmes. The Commission, in particular, welcomes increased emphasis on harmonization and integration, and considers them to be a future management tool. The two cases predict about four goals, i.e. that communications should be accessible and readily available, safe, efficient and efficient and environmentally friendly. The Commission takes a whole mind to the goals and believes that communication policies are very important. This is the third development of a communication program, although it is the first time in accordance with new laws, and it may seem that earlier plans have had a positive effect on government action and the development of the telecommunications market. The above opinions are divided into several chapters, and I'm going to go over them in different ways. Chapter 1 is about the mail. One aim of communication policy is the aim for efficient and efficient communications and is given several emphasis to achieve that goal. As for the mail, it says that the private rights of the mail service will be taken away and a regular work will be reviewed, and all services will be ensured by predictable and acceptable costs. The committee was told that it was necessary for us to reassign the private rights of Iceland's e - mail service to ensure that there is access to minimum service across the country. The Commission agrees with this and points out that in a bill for a new law on postal services, which includes the removal of private rights in the postal service, minimal mail services, called public services, are expected to be offered throughout the country. Public services are now aimed at the spread twice a week in the whole country. In order to reassemble policy that such services should be available in all areas of the country, including in the preconceived market conditions, the Committee proposed a change in one point of the programme, 2.3.16, to ensure that all mail services will be ensured by predictable and acceptable costs, taking into account home and company services. This ensures that mail is delivered to all individuals who have a permanent residence at a designated site and to companies who have regular employment in a designated home. According to the Committee, regular assessment of the activities of the public service is necessary so that the quality of the postal services is considered as much as the frequency of distribution. Clearly, service has deteriorated in recent years, e.g. has time since the letter is mailed to the recipient for the longest time that has reduced the competitiveness of the letter to electronic solutions. Thus, the number of distribution days is not necessarily important but how time it is used from mail to delivery. Similarly, the potential for an enterprise to produce mail can be a major factor in the availability of job drivers in rural areas. It is then urgent that private rights to the post office do not result in an abnormal increase in prices for needed services within the service and the same basic value for letters up to 50 g across the country. The committee also feels that it is proper to review what is stated in the report that the amount of mail is continually decreasing. At the same time, the Internet store and the amount of bass mail are growing. The committee points out that by increasing fiber optics, electronic communications, and the changing needs of the population, mail services may need to be tolerated in order to ensure acceptable service levels and, thereby, standards for public service. Here we are, in effect, saying that it may be necessary to think about mail services and the criteria for what is acceptable service all over again if it is to serve the community. A setting that provides an opportunity to integrate mail services and other activities in remote regions is needed. Postal services need to be clear, and the rules of competition must be respected, as appropriate. The next chapter will discuss the integration of communication plans and groundwork. It was observed that market-based interests were not sufficiently secure and that there were inconsistencies in this position between the proposal and the guidelines. At work, it was made clear that inconsistencies were determined on the basis of a second plan when the funds would be provided for photoengineering, while the other would be expected to complete the project. The Commission notes that it is important to always be updated so that people throughout the country are equal or equal to access to electronic services, such as national services. The committee also stated that there is a shortage of mobile telephone contacts with the roads of the country and in tourist areas. The holes in the communications system often meet in places far away from alpha, where weather and weather can be the most difficult. The information available to tourists, whether in service or in security, is increasingly based on communication. So the committee stresses that there is a lot of security and equality that a communication system is such that people who travel through the country can obtain information without problems, receive warnings for weather or natural years, or ask for assistance if they are going to the country. It was then noted that the word "moves" is a natural term instead of the word ◯landies in telecommunications, as the circumstances often vary within the same region, as well as that word is in harmony with the wording of a structured program. The committee makes adjustments in this regard. It will then be discussed about the light guide that I had initiated, but the Commission considers that building on the basis of the project Iceland will be completed as soon as possible. The committee points out that the distribution of communications funds for the project is expected to take place in 2020 before 2021 and that this will be the final distribution of the fund. The end of the State is aimed at completing the last contracts on the basis of the project in 2020 and the completion of rural development of rural areas alone prior to the end of 2021. Then the Commission points out that in a series of policy articles, fiber - optics will continue to become a priority project and the photoengineering of all legal institutions and workplaces in Iceland will be completed in 2025. The committee showed that the use of a light net would be an adequate service only for another three to seven years and that it would therefore be necessary to complete the light - carrying process. This will be a chapter on transportation and communication. The main objective of the transport programme and communication plan is the same, i.e. to the services of transport and communications systems meet the needs of the community and to provide sustainable development across countries. Then there are several emphasis and measures to support and integrate communication and transportation, as well as two out of ten effective decisions. In view of these objectives and the importance of integrating these plans and policies, the Commission stresses the increased use of transport communications to co-work as a communication and transport plan progress with continued integration and harmonisation of the plans. It should be noted that in the next programs, both in communication and transportation, these plans will be further developed as to how these plans play together about transport. The next chapter is then under satellite guidance. It was noted that in many parts of the transport process, a satellite guide was now playing an increasing role, and it was considered to be an important communications agent in many parts of the country that had not been developed in that area. A major trend was to develop through a satellite system in which the EGNOOS system, a European system, was introduced to Húsavík Airport. In that case, Iceland's National Public Service would be to install equipment in their air systems that could be used to provide such a system. A satellite history is also important in developing a south - south flight to the Akureyri airport with regard to geographic conditions. Of course, this applies to more airports, although this was the case with the Akureyri Airport in particular. The use of the system would be a major safety issue, both in flight and in tourism, and it would require that the whole country be covered. At present, however, EGOS is available across the east half of the country, with certain limitations. A living room stresses the importance of a satellite guide in recent flying history policies. It says that Iceland's policy is to become an EGOS operation with the idea that it will benefit from all the airports in Iceland. In this context, it is appropriate to remind that the introduction of certain European types involved in the implementation and implementation of European satellite instruments has been delayed in terms of Iceland. It is important that the decision to enter into an ELTOS population should be made in order to ensure that it is useful to guide the whole country. The Commission points out that up to now there was a view of flying history, including a satellite route, which is primarily a means of transport. In view of the fact that this aspect of the flight is involved, the Commission feels that a communication plan is involved. So the committee suggests changing the wording of the project into a five - year communication program. It will stipulate a future system of communications frequency and satellite services, and it will add: including satellite history, Iceland and the North, in cooperation with transport authorities. In this regard, the committee reminds us that a satellite tour guide is applicable both to a guide and a guide, including a guide to travel. around the Arctic Ocean, in fact, where there is a lack of shipping routes and in some places useful sea maps. Increased traffic by passenger ships in the North calls for additional safety. Then there is a study on the terms of the usage, which explains the difference between the use of the word for safety and translation that I'm not going to review specifically because this is a discussion that did not lead to a change but is explained. Then there is a third telecommunication. The factor 2.1,2 of telecommunication policy allows for three active marine cables to connect the country to Europe from different landlands, now the two strands. There is now a reorganization of ownership and economics of Farice as well as preparatory work due to the third telecommunications cable between Iceland and Europe. The committee then considers evolution to be a positive step in the right direction. The state has acquired all the things in Farice based on infrastructure. Therefore, in view of the needs of the less and more long - term community, the leaders have created to start working on the shape and induction of a new organization and the management programme for Farice for the future. Along with that work, it is important that the needs of future sea cable users be explored, which is an essential basis for long-term decision making on investments and businesses. The Commission feels that consultations with key users with telecommunications cables to the future will occur along with work in bottom research. This will give the State a good picture of both the root and the operating costs of the work as well as the income gate. The commission then emphasizes that when preparing a third cable, they will seek to use all the resources that have already been carried out by different parties. Stronger data linking the outside world can create new opportunities for national development, such as the data industry, and at the same time, it is important to promote the main ways of fiber optics across the country. • ensuring equal access to national and national data sources and ensuring comparable prices across the country. In this context, the Committee agrees with the aim of 2,3.1 for the government to have documented information on all communications infrastructure and 2,3.6 objectives of looking forward to the introduction of communications through public property in order to improve the safety and the following competitive events. The committee points out that the viewpoint was reflected in the discussion that there would be a better explanation for what was meant by public communicators, who they were, and what the cost would be to make use of such infrastructure. There's a chapter on practicality. The need for practical communication was made clear by the Committee, as well as by the rest of society, employment, and consumers. There, for instance, it was suggested that homes should not be prevented by consumers from choosing which service company to do business. Emphasis was put on more transparency in prices and better information about consumer prices, with reference to last year's purchase. The ability to drive was also indicated in the structure of telecommunications and innovations for the services of telecommunications. The committee is aware of these views but does not believe that there is a basis for changing the terms of the Congress. The Commission also points to the role of the Post and Communications Agency in identifying the status of the telecommunications market at any given time and in the role of laws in ensuring reasonable guidelines, such as the lack of network, and the available bill on the practical structure of telecommunications. The role of a post-communication and communications agency is to follow the rules set in the ETS legislation, in the decision-making and available bill for the practical structure of communication infrastructure. They have been authorized to negotiate specific cooperation and compatibility with companies in the Communications Network, Reykjavík and Mila, according to the decision of the Contestant No. 11/2018. If the country is to remain in the highest order of global communication, as is its objective, it is important that governments and commercial organisations work constantly to review and progress in the environment that is developing as rapidly as the communication market does. Changes may mean that the competitive focus changes from year to year. This will be the end of a discussion about the practicality and the final part of education. It was noted that it would be important to promote communication education and to encourage research and innovation in communications operations to end education and research in achieving the future vision set out in the policy, that Iceland will be in the front row of communication and valuable creations. The committee considers it important that communications leaders play a role in promoting a more advanced education, research, and innovation in the field of communication. Such leadership could include An active contact with the authorities and the university, the committee emphasizes the immediate beginning of such cooperation. Therefore, to the Ministry, the Commission points to the fact that the above in the implementation of telecommunications policies and five years of communication programs as well as in the coming policies and programmes in this area, since all progress in communication is, of course, based on the fact that there is knowledge in the country. Then I have explained the opinion of the committee and the three teams involved in the changes made by the Committee. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposals will be agreed with the changes made. Karl Gauti Hjaltason was away at the hearing, but he signed up in accordance with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under inspiration, President Jón Gunnarsson, Telegrapher Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Bergþór Ólason, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Resa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjöynfjörnótsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Finally, I just want to say that it is very important for us to have an ambitious policy of communications at any given time and suggest that the issues presented here be adopted by the laws of change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u40	Mr. President. As noted in the case of the head of the environment and transport committee, why. paritaprevir This is my opinion to Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter. However, there are two things I especially wanted to include in this context. There are a number of cases underlying in progress now linked in one way or another to the plan and policy, but there are three practitional cases that I would like to mention as a reason to consider, timing of mail, GSM-thousands systems, and then a fiber optic for a discussion of what has been called a black fibre. In a few words, the work permit is issued by the various companies. I take an example of the company Creditinfo, the name of Lens trust, which is wrapped around a so - called underestimate. There, those who have the imminent registration will be reminded that within a certain number of days, they will not be counted on a registration record before that date. When we see the situation so that there can be both uncertainty about the number of days from mailing so that letters can be treated, and then again from the message to delivery, there are factors like this, now I'm just taking this one example of this one company, but it's a lot of things in the system, which are necessary to pass through, i.e. this and this criteria, whether there is any reason to extend to deadlines or to suggest those who carry these obligations to make an adjustment in other ways. This may be of major importance to those with it, as it were. The same is true of various government institutions. It is often complained about it, saying with minor exaggerations that the government takes all the time to answer but gives for a maximum of two days to answer. In this context, we need to examine whether or not we are moving there in an irreprehensible way toward the rights of the citizens to respond to official viewpoints, so that this is being maintained. Another point I'd like to introduce is what has to do with the epithelial of communication systems, mainly GSM and data transport systems and the sources known as the trajectory between services. For the civilian, the most important thing is to be in a good relationship and to be confident that, on all the main routes, there is a service, even if only by the heads of security. These are things that I just want to mention are reasons to look into specifically, i.e. changes may be required. We know of the past when some areas were being developed in the GSM carts where government support, as it were, were conditional because other services were authorized to wander in the same system. These songs go on and on, as we know them, and I'd like to mention here that there may be a reason for special consideration in this context in the near future. The third thing I would like to mention and face up to a case that is discussed on the environment and transport committee, but directly related to this, in other words, is the discussion of the structure of fiber. This is a question of whether this system should approach through a so - called black fiber optics, which means that any service provider has open access to cables or fibres that are different from the rules set for today. This is a debate going on in the Environmental and Transport Committee, and it is not sure if it will be completed at this council or it will be postponed until the fall. I don't think it's the big thing if it's over now or by the fall, but this is a point that needs to be maintained in this context. In this context of fiber optics, there is a considerable difference between the spread of the owners of the websites, and we need to bear in mind the legitimate concern that if it remains, and the approach is expected to build a whole double system in the whole capital area is a modest possibility that it will contribute to the development of the country. The emphasis on building is likely to remain in the capital area until it is fully served. So I wanted to flaunt this discussion that these things need to be considered. None of them have yet to be explained. I just hope that the Environment and Transport Committee will continue to take these matters into consideration and that a reasonable landing will be achieved. Other than that, I thank you only for the cooperation with the issues directly presented here and suggest that they get paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u41	A respectable president. I just want to come here to make a quick decision in the matters we address here. There's no change in mail services that say minimum service requirements, just so it's clear. Otherwise, I can address the speculations. A senator who spoke first. These issues will continue to be discussed in the Committee at the meetings we will meet at the current council and likely at the coming councils as well. No matter how far we get to settle matters here, it's a permanent project in the community. All I want to do is make it right and finally thank you for good cooperation on the implementation of this matter to the environment and transport committee, which, as mentioned at the outset of my previous speech, has been more and less experienced since December.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u42	A respectable president. I come here to curious about what kind of thing I'm going to do. The president has arranged for a series of events to unfold. It was estimated that in the year 2030, a medical conference would be started here, and we took steps, two members of the Central Party, who are interested in expressing themselves on this subject. One of them especially had to take steps to get to the quickest house and move to another meeting so that I wanted to ask the highest question. A president when he sees that there will be a discussion of health policy on the program. I look like eight to nine senators are on the rosary. As I say, we take steps to be able to participate in that discussion, and I ask if there is any reason to unwind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u43	The president would like to inform us that for political reasons the discussion of health policy had to be interrupted, but we assume that soon the discussion will begin. There was an internal reason here. The senators were far away, like a dog. A senator mentioned, which is expected to begin the discussion as soon as people have gathered to the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u44	A respectable president. I don't make any comments with practitiony solutions. This is primarily about how speakers plan their time and whether it can be understood as being at the highest level. The president is taking medical care later. We now have a scheduled conference break. At 12:30, I ask the president if he intends to enter a medical conference after the next case, 11 cases, the method of loyalty and pollution, or whether there is a decision to wait until noon. It would simplify the organization if it were available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u45	The weather in the air is swift, and the reality of the Senate work is limited to this date. The president believes it may be close enough, like a dog. A senator felt that this will be around or after a lunch break as soon as it will be. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u46	Mr. President. I'll explain to the Committee on Environment and Transport. It has received ten visitors and eight reviews, and this bill suggests changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention, as we have seen, laws on handling waste and the handling of fires and protection against natural fires. This is partly from the EEA. The main objective of the bill is to suggest that the EEA will be authorized to lay on administrative fines due to certain violations against the laws on loyalty and pollution control and waste management. Similarly, in the bill, there are many other changes in the law that are more closely attributed to comments on the bill. First of the government finesse. A number of visitors, particularly health committee representatives, reported that local health care should also be authorized for the pressures of administrative guilty. It was noted that if local governments were required to refer matters to the EEA that would then need to be reexamined, there might be an increase in misunderstanding. It would be at risk of two-fold monitoring of the related costs for monitoring parties. At that time, the medical department, as a local government, would be closer to the subject and generally fail to evaluate the situation. In a paper with the bill, the Ministry stresses that the application of government fines is considered, not to be forced, but to a punitive act of punitive violations against the law. Medical committees have the authority to use forced equipment to get operators to fulfill their duties. It is important that the application of government guiltys be coordinated and the Ministry proposes that only the Agency have this warrant. The Agency has the same role as chemical law, and therefore knowledge is already present in the EEA. Then the Ministry pointed to the position of the Labour Association of Employment and others who agree with the Ministry's assessment that the application of government fines is only on the EEA's hands. However, it can be taken into account in the context of Article 34. the law on the protection of products that refer to the origin, land, and traditional status of local health committees has been entrusted with the authority of government guilty. It is then assumed that the health - care committees of rural society will be authorized for the pressures of government guilty in drawing down a bill to correct and protect animal disease laws. This gives health - care committees different resources, depending on the field of food and agriculture or the method of loyalty and pollution. In terms of a coordinated procedure it cannot be overlooked that the EEA is specifically assigned to supervise the health care programme under the health monitoring laws on the method of loyalty and pollution. The management board consists of agreements with health care, so the procedure should be carried out in the same way throughout the country. 52nd. It is recommended that the Agency also cooperates with health care in the country. The Commission has concluded that a degree of misunderstanding could be in place that with the implementation of administrative guiltys only on the EEA's hand, problems will become clearer and the development done through a more efficient decision. The bill says that the EEA's decisions on the pressures of management fines are final at the administrative level. Hence, the government is not considered to be an option. According to the Commission, there is strong evidence that health committees are also granted authority to the pressures of government fines. On the other hand, the committee believes that such implementation calls for a complete examination outside the subject range of this bill. In view of the burden of government fines, it is also necessary to consider whether decisions regarding government stress are the same level of charges as other administrative decisions, i.e. that such decision can be made to the environmental and resource decision, in this case. If health authorities have authority to obtain pressure from management guiltys, it is important that these decisions be made in order to prepare a coordinated implementation in addition to the role of the EEA mentioned earlier. The Ministry has offered an overall review of the laws on the method of loyalty and pollution and, thereby, the Committee directs to the Ministry that, at a review, health committees will be assigned to the pressures of government guilty. Chapters are here on extenuating authority for complete payment. There was general support for the exposition of authority submitted by Article 10. The bill. The Committee considers it to be a significant improvement in the effectiveness of payment if health committees can provide health - care professionals or certain health - care organizations with the full payment of the cases in each case. At the same time, the Court has decided that the obligation to make such decisions under the approval of the local government can greatly address efficiency. The main reason is that rural communities are united in many parts of a health committee and may require many decisions from rural governments on extenuating matters. These are the ones who need changes to the approved rural unions confirm transport and rural administration at the age of 9. Substitute government law. In general it is not required to work on the work and meet together with one of the sector's competent partners but in treaties, cooperation agreements, and special approved administrations and committees responsible for such cooperation. The committees believe that better health care committees decide for themselves whether or not to seek the approval of local governments. According to the Committee, there is a need for a degree of flexibility in the implementation of this authority by health committees. As a result, the committee proposes adjustments. Regarding the extension of a work permit, it is stated that in the laws on loyalty and pollution control, a minister is permitted, if given the authority of the EEA, and after the events of the National Committee, to give temporary leave of the work permit. This publication has been submitted when the time of the previous authorisation has passed but the license to issue a new work permit has not been met. The bill suggests that a candidate will be allowed to extend the time of work permit while a new work permit is being implemented, as adequate applications for new employment permits have been received. The Commission agrees with the change to the normal end that the permitcommittee can extend the duration of the application rather than ask for a minister's parole. Environmental information is to say that the Commission is specifically pleased that with the bill it is proposed a change in the duty of the operators to deliver a green accounting on which certain operators will be obliged to submit to the EEA on a yearly basis of specific information such as emissions of pollutants from each work station and about raw use. Thus better and more significant information on emissions and raw use is provided in the country. According to the Committee, this contributes to improving Iceland's emissions literature, improving the overview of the social carbon lines, and becoming an information bank when it comes to increasing waste recovery. In this process of codification, it is to say that the bill refers to the maximum financial level of day and that they do not collapse, despite the fact that the subject fulfills its duties. The purpose of this is to increase the impact of day-to-day exposure as the operator is more likely to take earlier action to improve the risk that daylight does not collapse but comes for payment. It was observed that these measures are now little for use, since health care may result in substantial costs if daylight is dropped, as the law has laid down. Therefore, their preemptive value is not sufficient by the Committee. The committee held the view that, instead of culminating but unimpaired calendars, despite the fact that material wealth is taking place, day - to - day pay days will fall two to three months after stress. If a decision is made to make a date, the person will be informed of it and will have time to pay due attention. Otherwise, he would have to carry the weight of a day's fines from day one. This prompts the individual to carry out his or her duties. The committee may agree with this reasoning and suggest a change in the pay date given two months from the stress of the day. The committee stated that there is a greater agreement between the laws of the day and the laws of the day. The committee agrees with that view, yet they do not believe that there is a basis for such action. As mentioned earlier, the Ministry has presented an overall review of laws on the method of loyalty and pollution and has therefore directed the Committee to the Ministry to take into consideration such views as this review. In terms of currency, it says that the committee agrees with the proposed change in the bill that when preparing or changing the records of the rural organisations, they do not need to obtain the report of the respective HCPs. Qualifications for deposit or change come from health committees to rural management. Medical committees may feel that they are the best qualified and that they do not have to go through such suggestions. This has proved to be burdensome. More small changes were made on these sides to the Commission, but I am running them no more. In addition, there are several changes that have been explained in a committee study and that are legal in nature. In short, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented here in a special Senate document that was outlined earlier. It should be noted that the person standing here, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Resa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurfjörðurdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent at the hearing of the case and signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Begthor Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason were absent from the case so that they would sign in addition to those here known as Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir. Mr. President. I've finished my case and reviewed this committee opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u47	A respectable president. I present the Committee of Environment and Transport Committee for a new traffic law, total legislation. Do I feel that this is a very important matter that many have been waiting for, often before the council? The bill is suggested to accept new traffic laws that replace the law of No. 50/1987. The Environment and Transport Committee welcomes this bill and considers it a step to end the need for transport laws to guide modern prospects based on the experience of the last few decades and the development of traffic and technology. The committee believes that a new objective law is greatly improved, but it allows the law's objective to protect the lives and health of road users with increased traffic security in which equality exists between road users regardless of the transport process and environmental considerations are taken into account in transport planning. The Commission takes a complete mind with the contents of the law and emphasizes that all procedures and interpretations of the law guide traffic safety. That was with that in mind that we had won this case since last fall. We've had a number of visitors, and we've done a lot of serious research, and we've got a big, big case. A lot of factors come into play, so you can't go over them all here. So I'm going to review the main focus of the Commission and the main changes made and their reasons. Other than that, I will refer to the committee and then the bill and the report by it. Several definitions were needed to enhance the logic of the law and make it more legible. For example. has become a ◯ barrier to the traffic laws where this definition is cited and referred to as a road law. There are more such definitions, such as driving sports and other items, as well as adjusting the definition of smart tools so that people would have no doubt as to what is clever in the word and how there were not some outbacks on it. There are such explanations here. We also make small changes in traffic accidents, but certain extras are included in the laws to drive a walkway, and we received indications that the use of motor hazards on our own car was not in that list. We don't think it's right to separate them from applying for this release and make a change. With regard to priority management regulations, a minister is given a regulations warrant to further expand this with regard to courses and such. It was not clear enough in terms of the counsellor's will and license of the minister to make such a course and rights or version of any type of certificate, so those who drive a priority course must undergo such a course before driving such a car; however, such a course has shown conclusively that it greatly increases traffic security, reduces road accidents on emergency driving, reduces damage and so forth, and makes traffic progress in general. So we thought that it was important to add that there was no doubt a requirement to oblige people to take such a course first. Police have done a great job of education all their top-priority drivers in this regard. Similar things have happened to the firemen and to some extent to the rescue workers. But better, if it's enough. You need to keep moving in there. For the race races, we changed slightly, so we didn't always need permission. They had become a bit thorough, the license, so this is more definition. Thus, whether the race was in closed areas or not, it always needed permission. That wasn't our original goal, so we took it so that it would achieve its purpose. Then comes one very important law, which is about drinking, which is 49th par. and connects them to level 102. One of the most common causes of traffic accidents today is the driving force of increasing traffic security. Therefore, it is of vital importance that we make a success of it. We received a number of visitors and gave them suggestions on how to do this and how to handle the situation. It is initially suggested in the bill that in order to send a clear message, that a non-visited person was suggested to lower the bounds of alcohol in blood from 0.5◯ to 0.2◯. It was to result only in guilt and a routine effect if it occurred more than once. That's how it was given up. Observed indications including from the police that about half of all police drunk driving-related offenses were below this limit, below 0.5◯. If the police have to start taking care of blood or breath tests, which require leaving the scene and entering the police file, and then going to a collect procedure, and other factors on the basis of this, it will increase tremendous pressure on them. That pressures will only reduce the strength of the police to take other initiatives, such as stopping those who drive under the influence of alcohol at that rate above the limit, above the limit of 0.5◯. We hereby recommend a specific route, allowing the law to prohibit driving under the influence of alcohol from the thresholds of 0.2How or more, and thus the law will be. But we will only bring the police' current procedure into the law, i.e. that, at that time, those who are tested in a breath test or another field test will be allowed to stop their journey, they are not allowed to continue driving, and will be registered to the police file. But, of course, the police'work will continue with those measured at 0.4How or in that time, they will be moved to further research, as it has been. This is what we want to send the message that driving under the influence of alcohol will not be tolerated. He will have the consequences of being enrolled in the police file, and the person will not be allowed to continue on his journey. So all of this will exist in police accounting if there's anything going on with a driver or something like that. We feel that we are promoting increased traffic security by going this way. This is related to another article called driving under the influence of medicines. It has been very difficult for people to drive under the influence of a variety of medicines, both prescription and other medicines, to treat drowsiness, and to treat others. There is an ever - increasing problem that needs to be addressed. That is why the Committee suggests a change of 50th grade. the bill so that driving under the influence of medicines falls under that category, not only driving under the influence of illicit drugs, but also drugs. It will also agree, so it will be easier for the prosecution and the police to follow this serious matter. And there are breath tests, breath samples, blood tests, and so on. It examines what health care professionals can do for so-called clinical evaluations. Enrolled with significant discussions, the committee took up considerable research on this subject. We are a little inquisitive that a health - care professional performs the evaluation. We do not take a position on the committee exactly which health care professionals are authorized to take on which test and test will take, but the nature of each case must determine which specialised healthcare professional is called for each occasion, so that if such a sample needs to be taken, or if there is a means to perform such a sample or a test, the police are responsible for the application of the force, but the health care professional performs the test itself. So the changes we make are here to explain this and to make it clear. It is only a time of driving and resting for heavy vehicles, which is often very often discussed. It explains changes in order to enhance the clarity of the rules involved in this subject. A special legal authority is already in the law and will continue to be specified as a Regulation, but one of the requirements was specifically accepted into the law. We did not feel that it was a fall to clarify the matter so that we would need to be able to identify on separate forms in two places. It could affect the rights of annuity and the like. While there was obvious and clear evidence that this was the case, we feel better about having it all in the same place clear, so we'll decouple it with the law and have this completely expedited Regulation. As if it is clear about the effects of irreversibly and otherwise, the penalty; if it happens to aberrant or a license, it will reach the category of driver's rights that are involved, not to any other driver's rights. These are only adjusted to match driving test and driver's license, wording on time and age, and so on. I refer to the committee's opinion of that, there are minor changes. Then we come in only on licenses to drive tractors and tractors. The bill required that we also need a driver's license, both mechanical rights and driver's license. We'll make changes in line with the appearance of tractors and equipment, that while you're closed, restricted areas are enough to have mechanical rights, so we'll make harmonizations. I want to see here that it was very clear to the committee that tractors have been increasingly used in a similar way as trucks and they drive in public traffic with large, heavy wagons, but there were no demand for drivers to increase their driving privileges. Thus, in view of traffic security, the Committee directs a minister to reevaluate the demands of drivers' driving skills in non-grienvironmental activities. I think it's very important to take action. That's a lot of traffic security. There is some reason for these requirements, and allowing them to be used in the driving of a truck or other such vehicles. There must be a reason why everyone is equally affected and must apply to other vehicles as well. In these areas we suggest, and therefore also direct to the Ministry, the opinion-based tractors, which reach more than 40 miles per hour, in order to allow the public traffic to fall below it. We're not making any changes in these areas with current legislation, so not all of these licenses and conditions regarding agricultural activities need to be met, but it's about business in general traffic. It also matters that the matter of competition is clear. They're coming in there. Although we are primarily focus on traffic security here, it is also necessary to look to the competitive ways and direct them to the Ministry. Regarding the announcement of doctors to the CDC, it was very clear to the Committee, and members agree that confidential doctors, doctors, cannot be excluded by announcements. We'll take it out because it was obvious that it wasn't gonna work out. Then we'll make small changes to react to innovation, e.g. in travel service. You just have to assume in such a law that there's a variety of innovations. This is not important about the environmental issues, since new solutions are being produced in public transport and the way tourists travel between places and places. Thus, there must be room in the law to deal with it. So we make these changes to 71st and 74th. You can record and drive through streets on so - called electric trains, or tractors, with more than one car, as many as three desserts. The requirement and the other requirements are defined here. They're thinking about dealing with this. We only come on a light motorcycle in Class I, which are little children who can't get faster than 25 miles per hour and a lot of young people drive around. The Environment and Transport Committee has discussed this matter many times before, and particularly in 2015, when there were changes in traffic laws to cover this issue. It has been noted that children are relatively careful about these vehicles and do not meet the demands of traffic laws, which can cause serious problems and dangers, even causing serious dangers. So it's important to put your arms around it. However, we do not want to place such a burden on this process because it encourages the use of environmental transport and the reduction of other traffic around school and all parents and other such activities, encouraging increased child care and so forth. We believe this is very important. We re-enacted the previous decision made by the Environment and Transport Committee, and we encouraged the Agency to comply with the law because it delayed its implementation on the last one. We don't think there's any reason to do that. The police and the city of Reykjavík believe it's very important that we follow this procedure, that these wheels are now registered under the law, and that they will continue to be. It's important that the registration rights be fulfilled. This makes it easier to monitor the type of vehicle and the rules apply to that vehicle. As long as there is no registration, the device is more accurate than the rules for bicycles, so it is important that this is available. Besides, these devices are subject to observation. There is something else that we can contribute to, both our school, our company, and the transport authorities in general, to increase our education around this, e.g. To take a simple course into all schools and to have the education a little alive. It is very important that it succeeds. I've only made changes about the vehicle's opinion and stress, and collecting fees, which we made small changes in, both how to look at the tractors and these electrical trains, and only on the construction of the body. I refer to the committee's opinion of further implementation of it. There is another factor that we decided to take - related to the use of bicycle helmets up to the age of 18. Today, the obligation is at 15 years of age, but we believe it is important to increase general helmet use to raise it to 18 years of age, until the person's own age so that it is clearly required of helmets. By doing this, we may be able to change our bicycle culture for the better and increase the safety of traffic so that it does not have to be a fashion or a shy matter for youths whether they wear a helmet or not, it is a clear obligation to wear the helmet. The discussion was to move this from 15 to 16 years so all high school kids would wear a helmet. We feel that it is an important change, as we did all to use safety belts in our time. We just need to take the step to change this and develop our growing bicycle crew and raise the limit to 18 years. If we are successful, we can revise the law later. I just want to introduce to you another change in road transport. There was a legal warrant for the Ministry, in cooperation with the police, to bring the so - called road patrol from the police to other institutions, such as Vega's or Grouping Agency. This is called road control, especially with heavy vehicles. The tenants called them were at the beginning of the police and the Vegas were doing this work together. For various reasons, e.g. The question of who would do what was decided that the road model would take it completely over. There's been an ongoing check, and then we went to the Transport Room. This was not efficient enough because even the CIA staff needed a lot of authority to handle traffic violations and to take care of this surveillance perfectly, as well as the police had to spend a lot of time investigating it afterwards, calling men to interrogate and other such matters, so this was transferred to the police. This has been very effective and efficiency has increased. Of course, the police have all these sources and reduces all their research needs and so on. So we don't think that it's a reason to keep this authority in the law anymore, because we believe today's work is as it should be. If it is to be restored, it will have to be adjusted to increase the resources they were always calling for, so that we do not see reason to use the traffic laws and suggest that it be removed. Then there was another big case, a objective responsibility of the owner or driver of a vehicle. Today, the objective responsibility for various violations of the situation is or where there is obligation and what is direct shifting between the car and the use of the car and the car, and may be related to the owner or authority in some way. It is direct use of the car, such as a tunnel or other road taxation, and it is the construction of the parking lot, which is well advertised and can be paid at the site and so on. Also, there is a objective responsibility related to the car management, the car owner can be responsible for its use, such as in the case of an opinion and so on. To extend this objective responsibility to direct penalties, such as before driving too fast and driving against red light, and other factors, does not really work out in a courtly way. We reasoned in our opinion that it would work as if the government were asking private companies like rentals to collect tickets from lawbreakers, such as driving too fast and so on. Because there is a change in the law of punishment that we were not prepared to perform, we suggest that we back it up with a law. The objective responsibility as it was will keep us from doing so. No further objective responsibility will be taken up. Then there are only corrections on the penalty laws to conform to this change and others. Only a clearer source is given to prevent advertising signs and vehicles from being removed and a minor law on how to respond. A lot of talk is about nailed tires. We brought it up in the committee opinion that it is clear that the police now have a criminal warrant in accordance with the regulations that apply to it. A minister may require various regulations regarding the use of tire pads. The police then have a clear warrant for this. But I also want to know that when we watch so - called nail class, there are rentals and other very large automobile fleets. And the weather, as we know, can change. Last night, in certain parts of the country, it was just a bunch of snowy things. So there needs to be some sort of space from these days. This cannot be so that you have to wait for the dates to start a ticket from the Facebook police. This needs to be considered, and it is not good to watch Facebook to know when you are no longer legal on nail beds. We do not make major changes in damaged cars, but we strongly recommend the Ministry to respond to them. We have been given very clear examples of the commission that buying damaged cars at auctions, repairing them in a garage in a very inexpensive and imperfect way, and then receiving recognition of the scene plant and auto mechanics to sign up for repair to the car, to remove the damaged car record. We considered it only in the committee's opinion that it could be a violation of general penal law and could cause the subject to lose employment and so on. We're entitled to see that the Ministry will see to it that this is being carried out by surveillance and regulations. Now I have reached an hour - long schedule of these key factors, many of which have been done, and I can talk much longer about traffic laws and traffic security. I thank the Committee for very good cooperation with this bill. It's the whole committee that's signing it. These are important laws. Hv. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiç signing in advance. I think many will wait for these legislation to be accepted and suggest that we accept this bill with the changes proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u48	A respectable president. I first thank the senator for all the fine work that has been done on the environment and transport committee in this important matter. It's a lot of things to look at and it's done quite well, seems to me, mostly. In recent years, we may have come to realize that these are also laws that are important to us in order to ensure the security of people who are on the move. As shown in a case report, one purpose of the law is to ensure that people can safely get between places independent of transportation. I'd like to ask the senator about two things in particular. On one hand, the bill opens at a maximum speed of 110 miles, with separate driving policies. Today, the release of automobiles from carbon dioxide is growing with a rapid-growing empire. I would like to ask if these climate changes have been evaluated. The other point I'd like to mention is the change to 79. ....of the safety and protective equipment of undefeated road users, since the commission indicates that there are no substantial tests that take from all the doubt on the side that do not wish to insert the helmet. I would like to ask if the proposal of the Committee rests on a stronger foundation, if any research would suggest that the age range will be transferred from 15 years to 18 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these good inquiries. At the beginning of my reply, I want to know that the environment was no less discussed than that of the Committee's traffic security, and that it was a great deal of adjunct to what's just fine. I see that almost everything that happens in transport and traffic today, that great growth, has to do with climate and that's good. In terms of higher speed driving, this authority is primarily for traffic payment, where traffic conditions allow traffic to be facilitated. And a smoother traffic always leads to less emissions. But speaking of what I was saying earlier, the energy exchange is so much lower in our use of fuel and such vehicles, which increase the rate of combustion. We did not receive much comments or much discussion about this. No matter what the trend is, we thought this was not the big thing. Rather, we thought that it would be better to do so. But there is a possibility that no road will already fulfill this in Iceland anyway, so I don't think this is going to happen right away. For helmet safety and protective equipment, the main evidence is that if you wear a helmet, you will be less prone to bicycles. We feel that it does not apply to young people, clearly not, and in lands where bicycling is much further used. And they all recommend the use of helmets, whether it's obligatory or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u50	Just ahead of the helmet use because I think everyone agrees that children are desirable for a certain age, especially those who are not yet fully balanced and are learning to drive, wearing helmets. Then the question is, Where does it go? I'm not sure that we have the basis for making that decision here and now 18 years. I wondered if it would be right to put this suggestion aside for a while and take a closer look at it, e.g. in view of the fact that the ideologies of the children's covenant are about bringing responsibility to children in line with their age and development. In the traffic laws regarding wearing a seat belt, a driver is responsible for passengers under 15 years of age, but over 15 years of age, they themselves are responsible to secure their seat belts. So I'd like to ask, because I don't read it clearly out of the commission, whether it's the idea of an explanator of future helmet duties, that every age should be made an obligation to wear a helmet on a bicycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Árnason Aarnarson's for his well-traveled career. Actually, I was going to do better as a member of the Environment and Transport Committee and thank the senator very much for the well-work of this case in the Committee. As the senator entered his tour, many were killed, and changes were made. I'd like to have a word with the senator about something that has been planted. It is true that we on the committee were dealing with many cases of tourists. The number of tourists has made our traffic situation quite different from what used to be under pressure and traffic and security and who knows what. Hv. A senator also introduced important issues in the innovations associated with tourism. Hv. A senator got into damaged cars, and although they in part are not connected to travel services, they are still a huge number of rental cars. In addition, news has been received that there are some things that are not entirely played within the bounds. I'd like to roll it up and get a second opinion. The senator's decision on whether we could have gone further on the committee than on direct recommendations to the Ministry to adopt a revision Regulation and make changes could have been somewhat more decisive in this case that we feel we are burning on people very much, i.e. The safety issue, both in the car and in the car. This burns a lot on people in general. I think I'm going to make it work, but I've got something else I'd like to hear from you. The senator's on the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to say that we got memos for the committee, and this is a clear violation of the law. There may be a lack of success. We wanted to take this in particular because it's actually the only major aspect of the committee that we didn't come up with a change in motion, otherwise there are laws and other aspects of the committee's opinion. So we're sending a very serious message to the Association and Transporters that they have to take care of this serious issue. There's a lot of other things that you can do, and we could possibly have access to the committee's opinion and it's good to enter it here. It is a question of whether we should make a clearer demand for what rental cars are allowed by tourists to be old and how far they are to drive. To achieve a climax, you would need to revise a law about rentals, etc. I think it might make us more safe, because new cars have an increased safety safety safety safety safety security system which is very important to the good people we have and are not used to our circumstances. I think it's the most important thing for us to see, what demands are made to the vehicles rented and what requirements are there for driving cars to rent from those cars. This can be done in regulations and may need to be examined in laws other than traffic laws. I'm so happy to talk about it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. There was something else I was going to come in on, but I feel that I'm just not in the practice of getting on a speaker, it's been so long since you've been in a word exchange here. Actually, I was going to keep a Senate committee inside of this, too, because of that. A senator is with me in it, and there is quite a number of tourists, traffic, and other matters. Then I come to the section on the objective responsibility of the owner or driver of a vehicle. It has to do with our being even. to deal with, although it is not entirely the responsibility of punishment, that it has proved to be a real challenge to drive traffic cars, tourists, into parking lots for payment. I'd like to hear the senator's opinion of it. I realize it's not traffic, but if we're going to make it go smoothly, it's part of what we need to figure out as soon as possible. It'd be interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator because he knows the matter very well. Then I want a second round, actually, to hear my opinion. Senator on the other hand. There are a lot of technical technologies, especially in this sector. [[The president calls.]] Don't you think we're going a little far into the personal protection of the surveillance? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible that there's something that's wrong? A senator's concern? It's hard to move in Iceland today without a lot of observation, and certainly it's a security thing, but it can go too far. Has a what? A senator's opinion about whether we might be using these laws to open up a little of such a thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing in another important point, as well as for thanking me for my cooperation and cooperation with the Committee. The work on the board on the road law was very successful, except for the recent Senate work. For the parking expenses and the difficulty in collecting them, there may be one reason why the objective responsibility has not been met with national parks. But after a good conversation with the tourist service and with the rental car rent and between the parks and the rest, there's an agreement. I think it is very important, as I have come in before, that the objective responsibility is active as this is related to the use of the car. This is significant because the national parks and all of us have the same goal, i.e. making better service for our guests so that our experiences will improve and our organization will be more successful and we will be more successful in protecting Icelandic nature and cultural sites. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's going well, and I don't think we're going to be on personal protection here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u55	A respectable president. There are two things I want to focus on. A senator on this round. On the one hand, there is light - wheeled wheels in Class I and the way the committee considers traffic security to be expected to be viewed, as in current laws that are not followed, and to direct the minister to rules about how such vehicles feel, taking into account their nature and use, and not going beyond the need. This is something I want to pray for. the circuit overseer of the committee to give a special talk later during the discussion. It was not clear enough in the transmission address how it actually works with the light wheels of Class I. It was relatively much discussed on the committee, and there's a slight misunderstanding upstairs, I hear, that there's a helmet duty on them because they're also involved in motorcycles. There is a separate separation between motorcycles and light wheels, and then in Class I and II, registrational, and how it acts on a power bike that is at a rate of less than 25 miles per hour, but may exceed a speed of 25 miles if the wheel is footed, etc. There are a lot of these things that are causing a little confusion, and they weren't too familiar with the presentation of the committee opinion. I'll call for a further discussion about that exactly. The rest is about your helmet duty. A national group of bicycle riders appeared before the committee and gave up a Norwegian helmet report to the Committee. Yet, there are no significant studies that make such a duty absolutely certain, whether it reduces bicycling or not. But there certainly is a clue. Seeing the changes at the bill was something that the committee came in. The above committee was not specifically discussed but only in connection with the comments of the Land Racers. [[The president calls.]] Yet, they had quite good evidence for their case. [[The president calls.]] I wondered what happened to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u56	A respectable president. As for the light wheels, it is clear that they are under the category of light - wheeled motorbikes, or motorbike laws. So the helmet does not enter because of the vehicle analysis. Then there are the bicycles, and there are especially the electric bikes, what they fall under. But the difference there and the reason why it's not the same is the weight on the wheels. Although they can't go faster than that, they weigh more than a normal bicycle, and they usually have young kids on them. That's why this difference is different. The analysis warrant is based on the EEA Regulation, so the car wheel cannot be excluded from the field of observation. We wanted to make sure that this would not be too burdensome, so we said that we needed to consider nature, which makes it clear. And in order not to become too complex, it is important to have a registration warrant on these automobiles, which the EEA also expects, to send a clear message and easy surveillance on the rules for light wheels and not about bicycles. Helmeting was discussed for the Committee all along and raising their obligations to 16 years, making the message for basic schoolchildren clear. For example, regarding the Norwegian report, the Netherlands, and other countries, there are a whole other race of bicycles, and it goes far beyond this one. We couldn't quite see a reason for stopping at the age of 16, and we naturally felt that we were developing and reviewing it later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u57	A respectable president. Hv. Regarding the use of helmets, a traveler said that everyone agreed that helmets were necessary and that everyone should use them, whether it was mandatory or not. That is not exactly what the Land Association of Bicyclists said. Of course, they wanted everyone to wear a helmet, but they believed that if it was a duty, it would be a barrier when it came to riding a bicycle, even having a food effect in general. The discussion after that meeting did not indicate an increase of duty to 18 years. Yes, it was spoken of basic school years and that it was difficult for younger kids to see the first 10th grade to stop using bicycle helmets, but there was no indication that this would go up to 18 years before a change was made. I was surprised when it fell in, and I would like comments and discussions about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u58	A respectable president. It is true that regardless of whether helmet use is mandatory or not, the safety issue that most people use is important. Everyone agreed on that. And with the legislation, whether it was obligatory or not, they did not expect it to be necessary to wear a helmet that fewer people would wear a helmet but that fewer would go to bicycles. But that's where we're talking about the age group of 17, 18 that we add. I think the use of helmets is so small today that it's not made of high saddle falling. I think, after working with the police and having discussions with other parents at school, it's a lot to work in traffic security that it is better to put such obligation on, though there is a greater risk of losing more racers from that age group. I think this is an important step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u59	A respectable president. I began to wonder when I waited here on the sideline to get up in the pit if there were any laws that are generally as well - known as traffic laws. These are the laws that we begin to receive education about right away in high school and continue formal driving education just until we take a car test, so the public is not more aware of the content of any law column like these laws. I assume that most of us, if not all, have some views on traffic laws. I guess most of us have done wrong with them. Some of us have even been taken for that offense. But this may also reflect that the traffic laws tell us something about what a large part of the community should be like, how we should get around, whether on the streets, on the sidewalks, on foot, or where it is. [[Up front.]] Over the course of time, it may have been rather focused on forming a safety frame, setting rules about maximum speed, rules about how much alcohol in blood can be made to make sure that people are not completely unable to drive cars, as well as laws have had the goal of securing easy transportation. Just as the transport program and other places where these issues are discussed are fundamental, green and safe transport is here. What has since been added in recent years is our awareness that traffic laws can be used to achieve goals in areas that may not be as clearly linked to traffic, and that are particularly public health as at this time climate. Hence, it is a significant step toward making sure that the purpose of traffic laws is specifically to ensure that people can make it the safest way in between places without regard to transportation. In the bill, transport skills other than driving in a private car are quite high, and the section on bicycles, which had long since come to be updated, have moved to a somewhat greater modern outlook. But I'd like to mention one point about the bikes, which has to do with the safety and protection of undefeated road users, as it is called in the heading of the 79th par. The bill, which is proposed to legalize the regulations laid down in the Regulation, issued by a minister, that a child less than 15 years of age should use bicycle helmets to ride. It has been criticized by the proponents of the racer's union that it can have negative consequences rather than to base on the Regulation, I'm going to leave it between parts. But I think that on the basis of this, we can agree that in the situation when children are taking their first step in driving, they are learning to cycle, to balance, and to the physical development needed to drive a bicycle safely, they might better use their helmets with their bicycles. However, it is suggested in the opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee that this obligation to use a helmet is extended up to 18 years, from 15 years to 18 years. And so, under the committee party, which I received confirmation from the committee's spokesman that it was the idea that this helmet duty will eventually develop in an effort to cover anyone who rides a bicycle. I, a respectable president, pay attention to the idea of a general helmet duty. It portrays bicyclics as more dangerous than they may be in general. True, there are certain groups of bicycle riders who are more cautious than others, and under certain circumstances, it is normal for people to wear helmets and to ask, " Do I once have to put on law that the most dangerous wearing of helmets is racers or mountain - flounders? ' But when we're talking about raising the line from 15 years up to 18 years, there's a certain variation in the nature of a journey that I don't feel is well thought of in terms of the environmental and transport authorities. The commission stated that the views of racers'involvement in removing their helmet duty from the law were not supported by enough research or reasoning, and thus a minister's proposal for the 15 - year line could not be replaced with strong reasoning. But I don't feel the same way about the Commission's proposal to raise up to 18 years. It makes me feel that there's some feeling that this is the right thing to do. I think it's time to stop and put aside the motion and hide it from the Ministry to take a closer look. It's, like, a... not in the spirit of a child's covenant, that children shoulder responsibility according to age and maturity. This is how children before they become adults, 18 years of age, are doing things that belong to an adult world rather than to a world of children. So you can just give us a close - knit example of people who are children's law driving a car, 17 years old they get a car test. I think that being responsible for your own safety in traffic can be a fine example of such progressive responsibility for children's own lives. Other terms of the bill can be viewed as the 15 - year range and show that 15 - year - olds, e.g. Trust to be responsible for using a safety guard in automobiles. In the 77th. The bill tells the driver that passengers less than 15 years of age use safety equipment, such as seat belts, so during the period of 15◯18 years of age, a child is personally responsible for its own safety in this respect. The same is in the bill, according to the 62nd paragraph. 15 - year - olds allowed to operate agricultural tractors. I have to admit, Mr President, that it is strange, to say the least, that children 15 years old will decide for themselves whether or not they'll break a car's law. They decide for themselves whether to drive a tractor, but we are going to take custody of their decision whether to put on a bicycle helmet when they leave, for example. between home and school The Committee of Environment and Transport Committee reviews a fatal accident that took place on the Nesjavalla route west of the mountains on May 22, 2017. I feel a little uncomfortable discussing legal adjustments from the death of a certain person, but this is an example that needs to be used to see if there are any problems involved in the act of the law. The commission points out that in the report of the DNS, it is called after helmet use, binding helmet use by law, including in view of the loss of a helmet at the time of the accident. In a precipitating analysis, the committee stated that the rider was not wearing a helmet but that he lost control of the wheel at a considerable rate that the committee estimates was about 40 miles [40 km] and that one of the causes may have been the weight of a luggage. We're talking about one particular accident in which a helmet was a causal factor, and the speed and weight of a wheel, i.e. It is harder to control them as they gain weight. These three works worked together with the disastrous results that were experienced. What this tells me, however, is not that we need everyone to wear a helmet. Rather, we need to make sure that the rules are not to be bound any more at any particular time. We too have plenty of examples in this series of subjects. For example, it is generally necessary for people to wear a three - point safety belt in cars. But in driving sports, where the safety risks are higher, the belts need four or five points, and on a bus there are two points. One rule is not always the means to capture the whole community. What's left in me is that although there wasn't enough evidence to end my duties, as a bicycle racer organization requested, in the same way, I don't feel that there is strong evidence to break the rules as the committee suggests. So I'll only come back to the environment, Mr. President, and it may be time for me to inform President if he hasn't looked into Strava this morning, the one standing here bicycleed to work this morning. And that's really good. Perhaps it would be good for the president to ride for work at times, for it makes you feel good about yourself. [[Up front.]] Yes, it refreshes a person for long visits to wake - up meetings, and the effect that society's health is growing rapidly for every percent of the travel that we take from our quiet lifestyles, such as sitting in a car in an active transportation style, such as walking or riding. There is also a positive influence of more wheels on the environment. This reduces particulate pollution as cars drop in the streets, and this has a positive effect on climate development because a bicycle driver does not release more carbon dioxide than what he can breathe out, while the car can burn considerably more. What really matters for us to support this trend is so numerous. We need to be role models for our children, ride with them to school, and then go back to work. We need to continue to build wood for bicycles, as has been successful in the capital area in recent years, and we have to raise children in a certain culture, that bicycles are as self - tested driving as they are, and that they do not have to be afraid of, but are safe, both because they have special structures on which they can ride, but also because people are not constantly pushing the image of riding at six miles [18 km] along the Seatrack, just as I did in the morning and the President of Strava, they can be life - threatening. One of the most secure means of transportation is a slow cycle within the cities. I naturally forgot to follow the story, Mr. President, that I had no helmet this morning but I would probably have had no head injury if I had been bored to fall off my bike at that low speed. On the other hand, I think my neighbor, who lives on the upper floor and went out yesterday to compete for a 350-mile malar bike race -- I think he has a helmet on his head because the situation is quite different from that of the Seatrack. But I suppose the sense of this zealous neighbor will do well, although it may be possible to consider putting them in some legal way to the parts of cyclists who need this protection. A respectable president. I'd like to mention right at last that Monday is the global day of bicycle, and I think that we'd be able to celebrate and celebrate it by putting aside this idea of raising our helmet family for 18 years, but also stop focusing so much on this foam that some people put on their heads when they ride, because the transition between people's transportation habits, getting it out of cars and over other transportation methods, is so much larger than this one helmet. When we are dealing with a climate emergency situation, as we are doing these days, we find it hard to let the traffic law, the law that all children learn from an early age, reflect that school bikes can be more dangerous than walking there, and therefore they need a helmet. I wondered if this suggestion could be set aside by the commission to raise the age to 18 years, and further directed to the Ministry to examine these matters properly so that a decision can be made on the necessary bicycle safety risks in each situation, since they are not all comparable, and if they could be considered on the basis of more data than we have in front of us. As it stands to say, the bill of Ministers is the only safe course to go on with the helmet duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u60	President wants to thank you. A senator's concern for him is as soon as he announces it. A senator said that it is not very appropriate for a president to feel at ease over his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u61	A respectable president. Hv. The senator mentioned a very important point about increasing the rights of children to participate in the decision-making of their lives, i.e. that it is not just 18 years away but, as the children's covenants say, gradually increases their rights. As shown by a child, when he is 15 years old, he receives increased driving rights. He can be, for example. an angry child who is younger than seven if he is used to riding a bicycle and has a special seat for the baby on the bike - otherwise, it is always forbidden to ride a bicycle - he can take a light test on a slapper, etc. When the change came from the commission to raise my duty to 18 years, I had a bit of a challenge, so much more to be done during the council. Somehow I did not expect a change in that direction, in view of what the U.S. racers pointed out. So there's a certain amount of pressure on me that I'm going through. What I realized in a senator's speech was that no comments were sought from the people affected by the change. Therefore, I would like to direct the president to return the case to the Committee for Comments on this issue between 2 and 3. I also look for comments from what happened. A senator, for this is something we have set aside to pay more attention. I take full responsibility for getting laid, but I'm taking care of some other quality check but so please make sure that there's a relationship with everyone who's told me about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u62	A respectable president. Yes, there are some things that 15 - year - olds can do in these laws, which can be done with the same logic as those of their helmet family for 18 years. Driving a tractor, I think, on average, it's more dangerous for both the driver and the one around him than for riding to school and driving a car that you had to drive to age 17. If the idea was to settle there, why did the committee not look at bringing it up to 18? I'm not recommending it. I'm just pointing out that if we look at 18 years as some rigid point of reference, he's going to have to deal with everything in this law, not just this one thing. However, I believe this suggestion is offered with a good mind where people want children to be safe on their wheels. What I fear may lead to is an increased fear of riding a bicycle because the feeling that this change comes from the committee grows from the fearful discussion that is often around bicycles. The speed of a bicycle racer's pace, the indiscretions of walking people, and the lack of limits are said. A certain image has been developed where it is very easy to get the approval of many to increase the law of caring for those who ride. The senator suggested a hearing between the 2nd and 3rd. so that this matter would be examined further. I'll leave it to him to appreciate it as a representative of the environment and transport committee, but I'd sure you'd consider it better. Also, you could just put this proposal aside and hide the Ministry to investigate for themselves and to suggest later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u63	A respectable president. There is another point I suggest that the committee consider between the 2nd and 3rd. Because in the ensuing speech, a light motorcycle, electric bicycle, was placed in between. Then there is the helmet duty, even though it is not a speed limit on bicycle footpaths or sidewalks where bicycle riders generally ride. I still feel like there's a lack of a better discussion on the Committee. It's been way too fast here at the end, and it's gonna be a little late, I'll be happy to admit it. I originally planned that when the committee decided to vote against the 15 - year arrangement, I would remove it. It would be preferable if there were more general discussions, since she was far too small on the committee. As I said, they did not come to the people whose reviews affect the committee. It's a very important bill, and it's a lot of points that you get tips on right now when it's in the community, you see things in a better context than before, and from another angle that wasn't in the hurry to the last few miles of the Committee. Nevertheless, the traffic laws were done very well in the committee. It was only on the last record that this adjustment proposal was made, which you did not anticipate and had not yet been discussed on the committee, and then you suddenly saw it in the committee's opinion during the last days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u64	A respectable president. I think the senator in effect confirms the feeling that I had for this firm's motion on a tight helmet duty, that she might have needed more weight. I fully understand the opinion of the Committee not to be ignored by those who want to remove helmet obligations from laws where there is a lack of evidence to support their case. But then, as I mentioned earlier, I would have chosen that a change in the other direction would be supported by the strength the committee demands that others give up their proposals. I think I'll just thank the senator for confirming my feelings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a fine speech. He killed a few things there. I'd like to stop by my helmets for a little while, and the changes being made now in the Committee's opinion, moving helmet ties to 18 years. I have serious doubts that it would be wise for me to put this obligation to the test. As shown in the case of what? A senator is a bicycle ride, and in some cases he rides a bicycle, and I think it's very reasonable to wear a helmet. Even though I cannot boast about being a big bicycle driver, I often cycle around and put a helmet on my head. I've only been driving motorcycles. All I can think of is wearing a helmet. In fact, it is mandatory in that case. Somehow, I feel that it will accomplish better to refer to people's reason, and they really appreciate each time and every occasion whether they want to use a helmet or not. I don't think rules and commandments are necessarily suitable, especially when it's the age that's being talked about here. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that the preemptive value or the protection it is setting will be the best way for the teenagers to wear a helmet, and whether other methods should be used if they want to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u66	The President proposes. The speaker concluded his talk in the talk chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u67	A respectable president. The president now knows best that the person listed here is fond of the rules and regulations that apply to them. But I think that's exactly what it is. A senator mentioned that this may have gone a little too far. I think a helmet related to a certain age can be useful, that it can be very useful to build up a culture among children who are taking their first steps in traffic, that they are as safe as possible, because they are physically in places other than older children, for example, 15 years old. Steady-state conditions for a six-year-old child are very different from those of a 15-year-old child. Or the weight distribution of children born at great size and to equal their weight. The groups that need to wear a helmet on the road are the groups that are prone to rolling off the back, there are children, but not quite up to 18 years of age, and those who go fast or outside. The example given by the National Transportation Committee in the Committee shows that it may not always be enough to appeal to reason when people are on highways at high speeds without a helmet. I think, in that case, a helmet duty could have saved something. However, as we are planning very consciously to increase the share of bicycle riding in urban areas, where the danger is not the same as in the race, I think we are taking steps in the wrong direction where helmet duty will cause more people to wonder how to use bicycle as a means of transportation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator hit his head. Of course, it is part of the problem people are trying to deal with that we have these many species of bicycle riding, and it may be said that in some ways we have a bad combination of bicycles as a means of transportation, where youths and older people use bicycles to move around and may not necessarily have the main goal of making it as fast as possible, but to improve their mood, indeed, and to have a spiritual feeling along the way. At the same time, however, we have bicycle riders, who have the goal of speeding, and this combination can be dangerous, and all of this draws us to do better in building a safe bicycle ride and perhaps not mix with competitive driving and traditional racing as a means of transportation. Then I want to reiterate that, of course, parents are responsible for raising their children and setting standards for them. I think that's what parents should do. Then I think that if people really believe that it is wise to wear helmets in every situation, they should use other methods, such as getting a well - known wheeled bicycle rider with no helmet, to ride around with helmets and to know if it can become a role model for other racers if they think it is on the table, whether it is more likely to be than a rule or a rule. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And now I've finished my speech, the highest. Mr President, in a speech chair and abandon him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u69	The President still wants less of a drive-by, though. A senator on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u70	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson has a slightly higher experience with raising children than is currently available, so I don't think I'm going to go through much trouble with him as to what would be best for parents to plan for their children. But I think for a lot of parents, there's a lot of stuff in the world that's in the law. If there's some cultural pressure on young children to have no helmet, it's good to be able to be able to say as Mom or Dad: No, sorry, friend, that's not allowed. But maybe I should take a course from the senator in the way you teach your children the principles in a mild, successful way. We're a bit of a qualification around a certain thing, well, I don't know what we call it, we talk about reason, we can talk about consideration, too. These are such polite and behavioural characteristics that are of little importance to the development of a bicycle ride. Yes, you can probably refer to reason and get people to use helmets where appropriate. Similarly, with these different ways of bicycling, it is to get them to work together, perhaps in the separation or whatever. This calls for consideration. I don't know if we can fix this. I don't know whether to deal with the fear of Sellers in the fast - moving racers by allowing Seltananes to set speeds of 15 miles [15 km] per cycle. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it is possible to appeal to the consideration of those who go so quickly that people feel threatened and just point out on the streets instead. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u71	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I have to agree with the concerns presented here regarding changes in helmet law, if that's how we put it. I'm not gonna talk against people wearing helmets. I think it's very important, and it's particularly important for children to wear helmets. I am the mother of two boys who often cycle, and I have a real problem getting them to wear helmets at all times. And how helpful it is to be able to say that it is in the law and therefore helmets should be used! I do not know, however, whether it will necessarily serve our interests when we are fighting for people's greater use of wheels as a means of transportation to legalize such an obligation. I think, for example. It is very important that people who ride along highways or along road streets use helmets, entirely. And when people ride bicycles that cycle and thus speed up or wheels on dirt trails or in mountains and other things, people should wear helmets. But we're trying to contribute to effective local transportation, so we want to help people to use public transportation, and because they have bicycle rents next to the stop stop so that people can ride at their next destination and they can handle their bikes very wide, I'm afraid that extending their helmet duties even further than they do today can cause us to land and work against further and even more important battles, which are increasing the variety of transport. I want to take this opportunity to encourage all of us in that regard. It may not fall directly under the laws of traffic, but the European Convention is about to take a double - cycling race in Europe. It's one of those fine things that comes from Europe that I agree with, and I think we're supposed to do our part to encourage even more race. By the way, I'd like to mention something new too. I want to thank you. Environment and transport committee for work. It's a detailed committee opinion, and I think it's very important that we have a revised traffic law. It has been a long wait, so it is good to see that we are completing that work. When it comes to innovation, there's a special talk about electric trains, and I'm glad to hear it. I had thought about going up to the answers to what happened earlier. The head of the committee, however, did not reach it. However, the question here is, Are we not thinking about further innovation and preparing us for the possibility that there may be automatic vehicles here, so we in Iceland are open to experimenting and promoting new options to increase the number of options for transportation? I'm going to finish this, Mr. President, so we can move on to the program and start discussing more urgent matters that have been waiting for a very long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u72	A respectable president. I forgot to come in on one thing before, but it's a good thing. A senator also talked about the same matters, but I'm going to add a little bit to the discussion. It's a helmet duty and an increase in the age of 15 to 18. That was exactly what the committee discussed in terms of what it really means when it comes to it. What will the police do about this law and this obligation? The only thing that happens is that if the police think they're 18 years old or younger, they're stopping the person's biker and informing their guardians. That's really everything that happens. We're adding to the police to help raise the kids between 15 and 18 years old, who I don't know if it's highly efficient, to use the police as some kind of parenting tool if parents can't. The use of helmets has made a lot of progress. True, there has also been a problem in the 10th grade that 10 graders just stop wearing their helmets. But sailing the police so that they can tell their guardians when they don't wear helmets, I don't know if they're going to do what's expected of them. By the way, I'd like to say something. A senator on how this couldn't quite work, i.e. not wearing a helmet does not provide the required results. I agree with what. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u73	A respectable president. As I described in my talk, I have such doubts. In fact, I wondered, " Could I go somewhere between my ways and my high school age? ' I understand that it is often difficult for school to set school rules and other rules that everyone should wear helmets, but this may help in that regard. Of course, this is primarily a matter of parenting, and it is important that we adults be examples in it. I agree with the speculations as long as possible. A senator has arranged an appointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u74	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. After the senator spoke extensively of the changes to be made under the committee's motion regarding the use of bicycle helmets. Something special to compare this to that, i.e. To somehow adjust whether we want to increase the number of people who ride the bike or to improve the safety of those who ride. Many followers of this case, or those - let's say it rather, so that some members of the council who oppose it or consider it dangerous to use the law to oblige people to use helmets will feel that it can be negative in some way, drawing, e.g. the will of a man to ride a bicycle. Now there may be a point. On the other hand, some senators feel that it is proper to raise, e.g. Carbon taxes and have the Independence Party especially fought to fuel carbon taxes in the hope of changing the behavior of car owners. It is as if it is okay to use laws and rules to change the behavior of car owners, but it must not be done to improve the behavior of those using bicycles. Now I think it's undisputed, at least there's some evidence in the Commission and the bill, that using bicycle helmets greatly reduces the risk of serious injuries. Like what? A senator pointed out that we have children, and he may have fought back and neck against them to wear helmets when they go to bicycles. That's why I don't get enough support for the senator, that we're not supposed to produce laws or change laws in order to get people to wear helmets, especially because there's so much emphasis on increasing bicycle riding. Which is more important than getting more people to cycle or to use helmets for safety?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u75	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks, and I thank him for the answer, whether it is more important to increase the number of people who ride the bike or to increase the safety of the bikers. I say both are very important. What I did in my brief talk was that I pay a certain amount of attention to making this a legal arrangement up to 18 years of age. This is especially so because I am a parent, and I cycle a lot of my own, trying to be a good role model for my children and to use a helmet. But when we're talking about shorter and, what should we say, safer roads within town, I'm afraid that it might get in our way when it comes to building wood for the bike walkers, and then I'm specifically referring to e.g. Reservation of bicycles that are about to rise up here in Reykjavík, U.S.A., will be more complicated if you have laws to wear a helmet as well. But I agree with that, of course, I encourage the use of helmets. The question is, Do we need laws and bans? Or is it primarily a preconceived value and fight for it in that field? Hv. A senator entered the carbon taxes, and I've certainly been standing here in a speaker and claiming to support them completely, I think both of them, i.e. to promote bicycle riding and make it easy to cycle at any time or anywhere, and then to deal with the environmental catastrophe, that has to say put carbon taxes on the ground, thus encouraging changes in transport or transport practices. Both of these are very effective in the direction we need to do so. Today, our urgent political assignment is likely to be to respond to the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u76	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It may be possible to argue that both are important, to increase the number of people using bicycles, and to increase the use of helmets at the same time. But the argument the senator made in her speech that she felt that it would be risky to guide it into law or to change the law in order to bring it to 18 years of age because we were encouraging people to increase the use of helmets. That's very strange to me. My point is that people should be obliged to wear helmets, and they should begin right away to oblige their children to do so. It is clear that the helmet is more secure. And taking it up to 18 years is only to make the bike more secure. If something slows down that people I really don't think they're gonna happen, if they want to ride, they'll ride with their helmets or not, and then I'll say, "The safety should be higher than the rest. " I've also wondered, because of what. A senator entered the carbon tax, that if a positive impulse is to be used, so to speak, to get people to ride wheels, i.e. not to turn it into law, why not use positive incentives to get people to switch from fossil fuel for cars to electricity or something like that? Why have this negative impulse? There must be some reason for the other. And I also don't realize, Mr. President, the reasons why short-passed bikers don't have to wear a helmet, if I understood. A senator is correct. It's like saying that if you're going to drive five miles, you don't have to wear a seat belt or turn the lights on your car or something like that because it's not as dangerous to drive a short mile as driving far. However, just a bicycle or a drive out of a parking lot may result in an accident and a serious accident. I think it's an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u77	A respectable president. To explain it a little bit further when I talk about that it may not be mainly about the length of the journey, how important it is to wear a helmet. It is quite different to cycle at high speeds, whether by bicycle footpaths or by driving traffic, or by bicycles to form over the eastern field, and up the Baldway at lower speeds and within traffic, which is at lower speeds as well. I'm sure it's safer to wear a helmet. I think there's reason to recommend that people wear a helmet. There is nothing uncertain, though, about riding a bicycle. In general, riding is just a very good and safe means of transportation. I think that's a little bit of a point that we're encouraging people to use this method of transportation, and we have to put a lot of emphasis on it. As a result, I pay attention to related helmet use, as I said earlier. I even wondered, though, " Should I have the basic school responsibilities? ' From the above discussion, it seems that there is. The environment and transport committees are even suggesting that it should only be related to the use of helmets on everyone, always. Then I wondered, " What kind of bike is being done? ' Is e.g. full reason to have them wear a helmet all the time, no matter what age people are, if they ride along a highway or in traffic at 60 miles an hour or more? Of course, with regard to the positive and the carbon issues, we are doing the same. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is well aware of this. It is also our method of exchange energy sources. We have positive incentives for buying electric cars, metal cars, and other things, and we've put them on a considerable scale, both by taking into account various customs and costs, but more like building timbers, such as parking cars and the like, inexpensively less expensive, parking electrical cars or environmentally vulnerable cars. In this regard, we need to apply every available option. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u78	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask you what would explain the subject of the program here. We were discussing medical conferences earlier, and it's postponed, and some cases are overruled. We were discussing traffic laws, putting ourselves on the rosary, and then we have a delay, and our health policy is reinvented. They are taking some steps to make sure that the members of the panels who were on the rosary, e.g. Regarding health policy, is it made known that the program is changing, that they have time to move into a house or to participate in the discussion? Of course, members of Congress are supposed to be ready to discuss the matter, we know it, but it's all happening, as everyone knows. But I'm wondering if it's the highest. The president has made some arrangements so that those who are going to participate in the health conference talk will be able to get ready to do so because the program is inconceivable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u79	Madam President. I have to agree with those words. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. I thought that I was the closest to a student on the traffic law, and then I clearly need to monitor the health policy that I know others were going to participate. It is difficult enough for the council to know what is on the program, even the next day. Today, we have a very long schedule, and we do not even know what is on the schedule next to jumping back and forth in the program. It's all planning and preparing, at least ... becauseofthethings we're going to take today, very complex. I'm asking a respectable president to make this a little clearer for us, so it's not taking a pause in the middle of a single matter to jump in the middle of another matter and then back again or how it is. So, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u80	Mr. President. I'm going to propose a proposal for a conference resolution on health policy to 2030 from the Ministry of Health. As we have seen, one of the objectives of the Government Treaty is to achieve health policy and to have a vision of the future for health care until the next ten years. In this regard it is interesting to consider what professional people have said about their policy or to put in place. These include presidents of the National Institute of Medical Services and directors of the National Medical Association of Iceland, which says health - care policies are not the product of professional and modern policy work, he says they are rather involved in the rapid and rapid spread of health care services. This is shown in his fistula in the latest issue of the medical journal. ▪ A universalism on hand, he mentions the fistula, and there he strongly criticizes the practices that were involved in these policies. At the same time, he says that the weakness of the policy is revealed primarily in the absence of medical discussion, which is a very interesting criticism. Does he name a number of examples, and he says that he does so even? you have no discussion of aging services, nursing homes, or mental health issues. It has to be said at the moment, Mr. President, that it is amazing not to mention so important aspects of health care in health policy until 2030. The chairman also says that much of the attention he needs to be given to a large, growing, and important part of the medical system, which is a medical facility outside the hospital. He said that in the course of health policy, conventional policy work has not been carried out, and he adds that policy data collection and standards were limited and that data has never been performed. In that case, prior medical programmes have been completely overlooked, with the development of policy plans and the implementation suggestions and measurable targets being very low in policy and random. No professional tip was taken into account, despite its many indications and laymen at a meeting at the National Institute of Health and in their consultations, which is quite harsh criticism. All these indications were ignored, believing that the so - called sham. The chairman says that the policy is really unusable and that it lacks the complete vision. Health systems need to be accessible to all the people of the land and have to be minimally suspended and equal between diseases and patients. He says that the basis for such development is complete and well - organized long - term dating. However, in health policy, a minister is not finding such a policy, and he encourages members of the council to reject the synonym. There is a clear statement, and there is no doubt in his mind about that subject. He also suggests that the Ministry will be assigned to start a careful work course in the shape of all health policy, to seek the assistance of professionals in policy development, and thus provide funds for the project to be managed by the most professional. The future of our health system is at stake, says the president of the NYC. It is not only the president of the NY Medical Association who has criticized health policy but also a criticism in the words of the president of the National Medical Association of Iceland, which, as the chairman of the medical Union of Reykjavík, says that there is a lack of medical conferences to 2030. It has to be said that this is a rather serious criticism of policy, that professional people have not been consulted, and that there have been no consultation. One important aspect of developing such a course is good consultation. Furthermore, a health - care professional has noted that there is little or no discussion of important issues, such as defenses and reactions to serious infectious diseases and other threats to the public's goods. Iceland's Medical Association disagrees with what it calls the drinker of health care services in the country. Also, there is no recommendation on minimal quality of operations within the medical system. There is no mention of a review of the health care programme. The Society considers ideas of increasing the role of the director of health care institutions an inappropriate arrangement. Make sure that they do not have both the work and the control of their hands, as may be understood. Mr. President. I've traced back the criticisms that have occurred from the Icelandic Medical Association of Reykjavík and Medical Association. There's a pretty hard criticism, as I've been through, which certainly makes you think about the policy presented here. The march is so long, encouraging senators to reject their policy. So I'm going to look at the comments of the Social Nurses. It says that prevention and public health, coverage of the important aspects of health policy, need. Laws on surgeons and public health, No. 41/2007, show that one of the national surgeon's aims is to take care of prevention, health care projects, and promote public health. Therefore, it is necessary in the Community to enact measures for prevention and public health policies into health policy and to agree with them here. Health care is for a major role, but its role in prevention and human health is not mentioned. The Society believes that while health care is intended according to health policy, counseling on a healthy lifestyle for individuals and groups does not have protection and public health. Therefore, it is necessary to discuss the key aspects of health care at health care. In addition, the review shows that there is no particular mention of rehabilitation in policy, although rehabilitation is an increasingly progressive component of health care. There is also no mention of a single word, as shown in both the criticism of the health - care system of Reykjavík and the National Medical Association of Iceland, the nursing home, or the nursing staff of the elderly, though it is evident that the elderly are growing as a group who need health - care for the coming decades. Health Care Act, No. 41/2007, a nurse in nursing homes or hospitals, cannot be discussed with health policy without referring to this growing aspect of health care. It is noted that a special chapter is part of a policy called the people of the foreground. It has a beautiful vision of the future that hopefully will be realized and can be said to be one of the most important aspects of our policy. I agree with what Dr. Fégla, U.S. nurses, says that there will be little room for health care if there is no health care professionals to provide the service, but as we know and have discussed in the conference, there is a lack of health care professionals in this country. That is exactly what the review says about a great deal of nurses and so on for years. There is no evidence that such changes will occur in the immediate future unless governments take decisive action. The reports are well - known: heavy work pressures, unacceptable work environments, work hours, and heavy duty loads. The factors should take place in the year 2030 according to the necessary policy. I hope it's going to work. In this context, it is necessary to call attention to current medical staff contracts. It contains a natural opportunity to begin the course under policy direction. One of the most important factors to try to cope with a reduction in this important class is to negotiate a collective agreement that leads to a return to such work. It is known that surprisingly many who are educated in that field, such as in nursing, do not work in this article but do other jobs. It is therefore important, as discussed in the case of the Icelandic nurses, that governments come to renew their healthcare professional contracts in a decisive and targeted way, thus starting their work in putting the people in first place. The Society claims to promote the practice that medical personnel and health care professionals should make comments on this. In such a context, the term "health care professionals " should be applied more normally and not specifically indicated by doctors. A policy course is being developed, and this policy must be progressive. The importance of all health - care professionals must be stressed in order to achieve the success of health care in Iceland. Over the past few years, increased emphasis has been placed on cross-cutting teamwork and is the cooperation and interaction of the different trade - class foundations for a safer and overall service to clients. A chapter in the policy of proper service highlights health experts. In this regard, U.S. nurses of the United States comment that one class cannot be taken out of parentheses when discussing a future course that is really a return from what is now being discussed. It is necessary to look forward with the needs of the clients to guide them. Even now, e.g. Nurses, midwives, and physical therapists with independent receptions at clinics that are increasing in addition to home nursing as a major part of the ministry. Thus, if the policy is to reflect the right course, it must be considered as a medical profession instead of as a matter of practice. Finally, in order to establish goals and measurable ways to reach them, the Icelandic nurse reiterates her desire to get closer to work at the health policy. This is the same as the Icelandic Medical Association and the Reykjavík Medical Association, that there seems to be a lack of consultation, which is usually not good. Nurses in all areas of health care and therefore have extensive knowledge and experience from the health - care system that is useful in such planning. Mr. President. I'd like to end up with just another move I feel is missing, but that's the ambulance. Let us not forget that there are medical procedures and hospital transports as the front line for health care services, as it were, in emergency situations. On the other hand, many people forget that there are health risks, and they may be forgotten because they are largely cut off to the third party. We know that the fire departments care for much of the land's medical transport and are negotiated every few years. In the meantime, there is little need for funds on the project, but the number of callers has grown constantly and the pressures on the system are high. I would also want to see a future discussion on the hospital transport policy. As to the project, the establishment of an experimental project in the South and West countries has been discussed. I would normally have felt that there would be a great opportunity for this to improve the ministry. We know that the National Guard has carried out medical orders. But the ideas that there are going to be special helicopters and special teams are very interesting. Keep in mind that there is a natural massive stream of tourists, for example, to form in the South, a lot of distances that must be taken to get to an emergency hospital, and there are opportunities to examine much more closely and would have been natural references to the course. I think it's a little strange that it doesn't. In order to get this together at the end, the current policy has been severely criticized by the New York Medical Association and the Icelandic Medical Association. In fact, it has gone so far as to urge members of the council to reject their policy. There's a lot of criticism and the need to get into her stitches. It is clear, Mr. President, that, according to them, there was a clear lack of consultation with a policy course that, of course, is not good for such an important project. I would have, for example. Wants to have more discussions about prolonged health care, etc. But I see that time has run out and it's a matter of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u81	A respectable president. I want to come up here and get in what? Birgir Is Þórarinsson's request based on whether he had not read the committee's opinion and saw how work was done on the committee, instead of just listing what was going on? We discussed these matters and got many visitors to our attention on matters. I'd like to mention a few things. A senator came in, e.g. Prevention. In view of the greater part, people's health and prevention are at good health. A greater proportion of it is in a committee meeting during the proposal that the Icelandic health system needs to consider this, and that is mentioned in the policy. Has a what? A senator did not study it? Does he not feel that this is necessary? It was especially noted on a policy basis. We have said that this health policy has been a bit high, but further implementation will be implemented in the Action Programme. In the case of the nursing home, our conclusion was that we should not mention nursing and living space specifically in the phases of health care, since at any level of health care, at the first stage, at the clinic, and at the second and third stage, we would be caring for the nursing home, since there are people there at such places. I don't think that these people will be given the same service as any other member of the country. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether this is an acceptable result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. What I've got most comments about this is what's going on with professionals. I think it's very important to listen to what the professionals say. This is where we see criticism from the medical firms and the Icelandic nurses' partner. How we must listen to it! I think it's most serious that these parties all talk about a lack of consultation. There will certainly be a further implementation of the operation programme. A senator mentioned. It is important in my mind that we improve our ability to consult. There are excellent factors in this health policy, it's not all bad, I don't say it, but people who are in the foreground are very important because it's the factor that matters most, i.e. the people who do these work and then get the patients to receive their appropriate service and that it is given to the best available staff. Yet, there will be a reason. A senator to agree with me that we must listen to the criticisms that have been made from officials whom we take a great deal, from the Icelandic Medical Association of Reykjavík and the Medical Association of Iceland and the Icelandic Nurses. It's the factors that I find most important in this, that we listen to their voices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. We had a lot of visitors, and I think we've taken some note of the points, even though we didn't all follow them. Hv. A senator here talks about outside hospital service. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has not read a synonym which was agreed to shape a hospital emergency service policy provided by a health committee and has been approved there, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to assign a health minister to shape a comprehensive public policy on business and emergency care outside the hospital. The aim of the policy must establish the cooperation of those who are engaged in the ministry, in a clearer way define the responsibility and workforce within it, and to promote education, re-education and training of those who work in emergency transport and provide emergency services at the scene of accidents or other emergencies. A health committee was responding to a challenge, and this discussion was even made before discussing health policy. But this is of utmost importance, since we are measuring our health care and attaching it a little bit, we had to divide the third phase of our ministry. That's when we've got all the services we've got on the road. Counts 'em out. Is it not enough for a senator to handle these matters? Or how does he feel about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Certainly, that work is as hard as possible. A senator would point to that level, but I would have considered it more correct that this policy would be mentioned, especially in the use of medical transportation, because they are a very important component of health care, and probably and normal to include them in the policy and refer to the work that has taken place. I think it would be natural for the person who reads this course for the first time to see that these things were mentioned. I especially miss not bringing up ideas on helicopters for hospital transport because there is something we would see for ourselves in the future that would be a very helpful option to improve the level of service, react to increased tourist currents, etc. If we work in a future policy, we must try to find factors that will help us to succeed, such as innovation and change in focus and better service. These factors should be mentioned in this course. I'm not trying to downplay the work of the Committee, but it's obvious that professionals have criticized this policy, and there's something they need to do. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u85	Mr. President. We here discuss a proposal for a resolution on government health policy, and I can, in effect, agree with much of the committee's list. In the course of our own life, there are good things to be found. The members of a welfare committee, and of course others, before me, have done well. Although I can agree with much in the Committee's section on the larger policy agendas, I have more comments on what is not on the course and exactly what is on the other hand, as well as on the methodology that lays the basis of this work, and then on the particular piece of advice we are dealing with here. As a suggestion for government health policy until the next decade, this policy is not very critical. It is clear that health - care ministers who are expected to be in the fall from year to year are the ones to be considered. There will be the political and premeditated ministers, with their declared targets, measures and the like, something that is most easily polarized in this policy. Then you might ask, " Is there any reason to worry that something is missing in this direction, since a five - year plan is due within some month? ' In fact, when you consider further, there is good reason to be overly concerned about this process. It was observed that when the reviews began to arrive at the health committee and were arranged for visitors, there was a big difference in how a visit was made to a designated health care provider. In retrospect to the highest degree. Health Ministers and health - care authorities seem to think that this policy is mostly valid in terms of how much and how well it has been consulted with all the more important ones, it is quite easy to read what is written in the clouds. I'll find out from here on out. As has been noted many times in this discussion, policy emphasis is placed on seven main issues that will be supported by basic health care providers. The section ▪ The right service for health care is referred to as the first phase, second phase, and third degree of service. The first stage is health care, which is a good and important goal, and in fact, perhaps that which has been achieved by humans for a very long time. Then there is a second - phase service, defined as a specialised service outside hospitals, which is also the third step of the National Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri. In fact, the second step is entirely different from first - grade health care, and the National Hospital and the Third - Level Hospital. According to the policy, particularly in the capital area, there are a wide range of independent experts at a different level, but there is a score that will extend to more or less of all health institutions of the country outside these two major institutions or parts of the service they perform. So it's getting pretty big and wet. Furthermore, it is clear that there is a sharp overlap because the services of two doctors'walking departments and day departments are in many ways comparable to those employed in clinics and medical centres. If that's the goal of making the service employer's type or background important, I don't quite understand what's underneath. I would especially like to see a health - care organization in a way that in most areas patients had the choice of providers. Our fine society makes it possible that there are things that will depend on the work of the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri that will be done nowhere else. Similarly, there are many gray areas that are increasing in number and are now being used in a number of ways that can and will completely alter how we approach health. I would like to see the development of secondary service according to the needs and desires of those who use the ministry. The policy has entered the manipulative problem of design under the heading of the foreground people. The problem is, naturally, so large, that it is not possible for the most skilled health - care minister to solve it alone and unsatisfactory. It's a community matter. In recent years the problem has increased dramatically, especially among nurses. All I can do is take this opportunity here and call attention to the proposal of a group of reverends and other fine senators, where we spoke about making an effort to equalize the interests of women's classes. Much of this is women's class, I remind you. However, it is not just the wages that matters with the man - made problem. The clinical profession is becoming increasingly urgent. It is important to find answers to that negative trend and ways to reverse it. This must be a key guide in molding health - care policies for the future. Discussion of these health - care issues repeatedly shows that the main reasons for coldness are stress, work conditions, and working arrangements, especially the shift work, which more and more people reject. Also, there is limited chance of affecting the work arrangements and services provided. There's a chapter on the active users. It is important for politicians to remember that the health system they are responsible for is for users. It does not show good service to prevent users from choosing if possible. This applies to health care as well. The aim of providing health care as needed and guided by national interests, national rights, not the provision of a service provider, if they meet established standards for quality, safety, and cost. The importance of education, innovation, and science is slain in the chapter ◯ Thinking of the future to show the value of education, innovation, and science. The National Health Service needs innovation. It needs to develop technical innovations. The examples from all over the medical profession show that this is more likely to happen in an environment where people are able to react rapidly, have the opportunity to try new things, and have the general circumstances and motivation to create innovation. It can, of course, happen within the world's own personal resources, but it needs to create an environment in which innovation thrives and thrives. It doesn't happen by itself. So it was tragic to witness that medical science has been in a land hospital for decades, and that is not just within medical science but science in general, I think it is safe to state. Based on statistics, the National Hospital is going down on research and receives less than any other university hospital in the North. Since it is widely accepted that the quality of scientific work and then of clinical service is being carried out, it is important that things be handled properly here. I'm the highest. Secretary of health to the fore. I had a word with the highest. Minister on these matters at the Senate Hall in a discussion about the government's financial plans by the end of March. There, a minister said that it was of particular concern that the land hospital had been losing its flight during the past few years when it came to scientific work. V.E.G. A minister specifically stated that this was a concern because of a university hospital that would have to be competitive at a university hospital in the countries around us, about the best possible workers and the most scientific people. You see, it is a big deal to face the challenge of design. Our professional people have many opportunities, not just here in the country. Mr. President. I'm pretty far along with my speaking lesson, and I haven't killed myself in nearly everything I want to talk to you about. A little time has gone into the business form, the importance of diversity, not necessarily because I think it's alpha and Omega at all when it comes to health matters, but rather that I think the importance of diversity here is too much to deserve the larceny that the idea of a career involved in policy work. Our health - care system is our most important system, our most expensive systems, and it is crucial to our making wise use of funds and efficiency. At the same time, services to patients must be all important when it comes to the health system, not who gives them this service. That patients can be confident that they can have a safe and timely and effective supply of health care when needed. Somehow that's the way it was for a talk. At the time of his words at the highest, a senator, Simonystein, Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, was built. A few weeks ago, the health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and a stubborn minister, in order to look beyond the state - bearing box on solutions. The senator's criticism seemed to go to the highest level. A minister who responded by repeatedly speaking for the interests of those selling health services in a private market, as was said of the minister. We took care of the interests of those who wanted to pick out the most lucrative avenues of service just to profit from the ill and injured. That's big words, Mr. President, as is often the case with unsatisfactory people. I don't particularly feel sorry for it. We'll pull around here all day in and out of politics, and we'll just let things go like this. But I was sorry to hear that attitude. The minister to the many professionals and health professionals who are not employed by state-wide institutions and thus, I testify to the Minister, to profit from the sick and injured. A health minister will have many opportunities to send me and my associates to a frontal telegram, for it will soon freeze below than we will stop speaking to health care professionals, health professionals, and taxpayers in general by focusing on these matters. The financial resources need to be properly used by the national health system. Whatever the name of the service employers, their dedication is a most unlikely way to do so. The answer is varied as long as all are guaranteed to meet the same quality requirements and are funded in the same way. I remind you that the health system is an official system. There are social reconciliations, and within this system there are different forms of growth because it is the way the system serves its purpose and most users. During the work, a panel of 38 comments were received about the matter. I'm going to kill down to a review from the Corporation of Employment to two-and-a-half pages that are a pretty good core. The entrance is as follows, with president's permission: ▪ The aim of the health system is to provide patients with a first-rate service as the government's ambitions should be to make the most of their resources and to run the system as effectively as possible. The health - care system is not a threat to specific public - care services on the same terms as public service. That's the point, Mr. President. If the values are the same, if given correctly, then there is no threat of multiplicity. Much closer to talking about opportunities. Mr. President. I mentioned this before with my discussion. I feel that it matters, and as I said, when the matter began to reach the health committee and was met with visitors, there was a big difference between how the talks had been addressed to a particular health - care provider. In the lead speech, the highest. A health minister from January stated that once the policy has been adopted here in the Hall, health plans will be implemented for five years, and will be updated annually during the course of health care. The Ministry of Health will then submit these plans for a discussion at the General Assembly each year. Not just to decommission the welfare committee, but to make it clear to the council what the measures are in accordance with each section of the medical policy; what they say, what steps should be taken, etc., not for the benefit of a health committee or here at the Senate Hall, but for information. Most of the 38 reviews received, if not all, were to rejoice that medical policies were being developed. Everyone agreed that it would be extremely important to work on a clear and important policy of this huge and important issue. Another harmony was where most people missed detailed coverage, or just the discussion over a head, about certain lawsuits, ranging from the largest to the smaller. This criticism was answered by a health minister and by the health authorities, in a meeting by the Committee that this policy was intended to provide the key lines. There would be some special group of subjects later. It is proper to assume that this work is started in many of the lawsuits. It does not change the fact that this document, known as a health policy until 2030, hardly mentions factors that everyone sees to be extremely important when it comes to laying total lines. I'm talking about mental health issues, nursing services, treatment of addictive diseases with rehabilitation, nursing homes, etc. The list is quite long. So the stated objective here is to put up lines that can endure time, and then each minister in the policy's lifetime can present his political vision within it. It is only right and natural in itself to act that way. But then we'll come back to this with our discussion. Who was invited to come to the table to shape these important lines? Lines that will, if carried out, will be wrapped up in political action by health - care ministers. It would be hard for a stranger to discuss in detail each of the 38 comments received, but interested ones are told that they are found on the General Web site. But I'm going to make one of them especially high here. Organizational services are the stakeholders of an enterprise which is not a state-of-the-art enterprise but operates in the field of health according to a service contract or other related government funds, e.g. a day's pay. Within the organization, there are nearly 50 companies, partners, and self-employed institutions, including most of the country's nursing homes, government payments on health services parties, except for about 15% of the total cost of health care. The amount is about 30 billion. In its review, the enterprise's organisation in welfare services describes the lack of communication in the processing of this policy. Conspiracy with the power of the party, a lot of important authority. The review certainly says positive things about the City of Health that was held last autumn. So says, with President's permission: ▪ The word Landspiral (in some form of the word) occurs 44 times during the medical conference. The Akureyri hospital occurs 9 times during the medical conference, and health care (or health care) occurs 49 times in the policy. Rehabilitation does not receive any material coverage in policy, nor does the term "cure " occur at any health - care level. As a result, there was no material discussion about these vital aspects of the medical system at the hospital, where there were no data to analyze. In its review, the organization points out that the whole and discussion policy will take into account the institutions and the parts of the health system involved in the preparation of the starting phase, which was a clear line. Lack of discussion of specific material categories and other factors such as business plans are directly a result of a lack of consultation with the most familiar partners in the preparation of the work. So many were words, and in fact, there were more words about this method than I was picking on a big one. Materially, reviews from the National Institutes of Health, the National Medical Association of Iceland, and the Medical Association of Reykjavík and other agencies were agreed on on on this point. Mr. President. Just at the end, I'd like to give you a review of a manual account from an Active Rehabilitation Fund. In his review, it is advisable to point out that the health - care program does not include rehabilitation, an important component of the health system. The importance of protection and improvement in one person's ability as compared to standard of care is not mentioned. You see, skills may become a key health - care provider in communities characterized by long - term health problems and decrease in participation despite improved health, according to current medical science. Here we can note that according to the results of a report performed by the Vigfús Ásgeirsson insurance mathematician for the Active Management Board and recently presented, more than 17 billion were reported. Benefits of Active Functions in 2018 You might think it would be at least One Mass is worth one eye's success as health policy is being conducted in Iceland until the next year. Mr. President. It is good that this has been the step on the part of the government to work at long - term health conventions. Since then, whether those who render service or those who accept it, we have long called them. However, it is not that there is such a gap between the health authorities and the number of people in the spine that have been in Icelandic health care for decades. That must be a matter of concern to governments. It should, at least, be To be. I have reason to believe that this medical conference will be approved here in the next few days, but I call it what it is. Congress officials do not let their guard down and follow along carefully, as well as their heads can, considering how this journey was made by the government. They don't do anything more important, things, public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u86	A respectable president. We're discussing a proposal for a hearing about health policy until 2030. On the welfare committee, I sign this fine policy in advance. It can be said at the moment that it is, of course, a goal to pursue good health care until the year 2030, but the situation seems, as it is today, to be less exemplary. The government's waiting campaign has failed completely, i.e. To eliminate the list of waitings, and unfortunately, there is still a large number of children in waiting lists, and increase them daily, e.g. to the waiting list at the State Diagnosis and Advisory Centre. For orthopaedic surgery, there has been no failure to eliminate the list of waitings, such as knee and hip surgery. It is unacceptable that the situation is that almost twice the cost of those abroad can be sent to such operations at the same time that they are not used better by negotiating with those who are able to provide this service at home, and thus by at least one. Try to shorten the waiting list. It must be said just as it is that the waiting list is okay for a short time, as we say; weeks, two, three months at most, but being still on the waiting list after three months begins to harm. The longer people stay on the list, the more damaged they are. I know by my own experience being on the wait list for a year or more, it's just a clean, direct horror story. Sadly, that is not justified. No further drug administration can be justified, by table, tablets for adverse reactions, and do so for weeks, months, and years without any ringing: Wait, what is the system doing to these people? Yes, it is damaging, and it is very serious. Most people know that the body produces tolerance to drugs and analgesics, so it always takes more and more to keep people from suffering from such arts. Then there's always the danger that people simply hate these drugs and become addicts, simply making and producing addicts on the command of the State. It's one of the manifestations. There is also another manifestation in this context, which is perhaps the ugliest of all, i.e. The danger of being forgotten by court lists is that of producing disability for life. It has been proved that when a person has been on a waiting list for nine months, there is about 90% chance that he will not go to work, except for the damage he has suffered by taking up to 20, 30 tablets per day for the entire period. There is also another problem, and there is a problem with health care in the country. We've heard new stories about it in the city scene, where there was no service, the health system was all over. There was no needle and tar or disinfectant or anything for anaesthesia. It tells us that it takes us so much back and puts a man in touch with what I saw in Nuuk, Greenland, where there was no roads to go. Then they have, what to call it, a health cart, where everything is in one good vessel that is needed to minister; making, scraping, sewing, and perform small operations. It's all there is in one box that can be handled at a local location. And this, of course, is what we're supposed to be trying to achieve, since the situation is too bad that there is not even a needle and a thread or a tranquilizer to make small wounds. It is also another in the country, which, of course, is a crime against the whole health system, that if individuals in the country are diagnosed with cancer, there would be financial failure. It's supposed to be done long before we start thinking about the year 2030 because it's happening today, and it's gonna have to be solved today. That the cost of going abroad to Reykjavík for cancer is serious, and for some, it is a financial failure. And when I find myself wondering if anyone has simply refused such service because it is too expensive. That's why it's a little weird when you see at the health conference: the people on the foreground. Of course, people in the country should be on the front line, and we should be ambitious that oncology is now free of charge in most lands around us and that everyone can get that service without affecting their financial situation. There is something else related to health that needs to be enhanced, and this is a rehabilitation service. She does some really good things. There's really cleaning up. Then, in some strange form, the aging service in the hospitals has become the efflux crisis of the hospital, as I have said before. Then we'll say, "There's something wrong with the system." Then they come to nursing homes. Well, there's got to be some action there. It has been called upon to negotiate the actual cost of a service that seems to not be working out, and people, the system, seems always to be doing something about it. It should be a big challenge. Mental health. Sadly, they are not well along. As we have seen, there has been a great deal of success in such matters as this. A mental force and other good organizations that are trying to do what they're saying. Happily, though, it is at least safe for now. But better, if it's enough. There is something else in this that is the right service to be done in the right place. That is one of the things we need to examine carefully. In this context, however, I must point to a very good conclusion that is very effective and should be more effective and should be examined by the public. It should be no. one at the health-care conference should first introduce it thoroughly, i.e. tissue health.is. It is one of the most excellent initiatives that has been made, since a person can be in direct contact with his doctor in real - life, in regular day service, and also in reinvesting medications and other activities. This is the kind of thing that's already proved itself. It's already inside, I think, about 65,000 people. It has already saved such calls and calls to the health care unit, showing that this is working very well. This needs to be further introduced in every way. Then there are many things to blame, such as those who die from poisoning or drugs, those who seem to have been forgotten in the system, that somehow seem to fall between ships and docks. Of course, it is unacceptable that we lose 30 to 40 people a year because of drug poisoning. This is the thing we have to get back to and get back to. It is not appropriate for us to do nothing about these matters, as we have had them, and it is also necessary to make plans at the U.S.A. It shows that although this policy is valid, and I can support it in advance as I have said and listed it here, it's not good enough. What really bothers me is why the government doesn't begin, at least to a minimum, the things in a song like the movies? Why are 350 children on the waiting list after diagnosis? Why are there 600 people on the waiting list after knee and hip surgery? What is it that makes us go through this year after year, and even increase in waiting lists, as is the case with the children? This cannot be acceptable. I don't need to be told that this is some kind of gigant thing. This is just a cost we have to set priorities and make sure that our priorities are set. We need to deal with this right away. I hope it will be done on our first chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u87	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. There are three things I would like to mention at the beginning of the day. A senator I think is important to draw out. I think it seems quick to read a review that at least a few of them are complained about lack of communication, that the policy has not been achieved in sufficient consultation with the partner, e.g. Medical rights and such parties. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament whether the committee was strong and whether there is reason to have doubts about policy because consultation was not good enough. Second, I would like to ask the senator how he believes that the important feature of the free society is here at health policy. Then I'll go to the U.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.R., and I'll smoke a lot of these things that we know, whether our policy is moving in and keeping them in place. Third, if time is won, I'd like to know if the senator feels that something is involved in the old and extraordinary challenges of waiting, which the senator did merely introduce in his speech earlier. It is really remarkable if we are pursuing a course that we at the same time do not believe in dealing with major problems in the system, including the list of events that are incredibly long. So it's really these three things, the noncommunication, the free society, and the lists that are on my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, the lack of communication was complained, and quite a few did. I made a special decision that at nursing homes, they were complained that they would not even be negotiated, even if they wanted to get signed. They are not really respected, and they may have to cut down their service because they have become very discouraged. I have to say just as with a waiting list, that I've been watching them, and unfortunately, most people seem to be getting longer. It always seems to be doing things the wrong way, because it could be done better. I don't see anything wrong with temporarily negotiating with parties in the town to try to make it work. No one should have to be on the waiting list for more than three months. People know now that if they're on a waiting list for more than three months, they can just go abroad, they have the right to do so. But then people must make that decision immediately, before they are too sick to go abroad, otherwise they may not be allowed to have it because they have become too weak, as we have heard of. Then it was third - yes, the free society. [[Set up in a free organization.]] They need to be taken in much better. There are so many free organizations out there that do good things, and they need to be sharpened because they save the country big money. [[The president calls.]] That's where you need to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. To me, it is a concern if this is the case in the current health policy to agree to the Council not to be taken seriously, e.g. in the three points of depression. Senators have been involved, i.e. To communicate in order to form a nursing home, that they are, in fact, out of agreement, not agreed with them. It is not enough to have beautiful words written on a certain course if they are not followed by goals. Therefore, the question is, Is such a course really credible without time - consuming financing and such a concordance? Regarding the waiting list, the senator's list seems to have been extending. The Senator rightly stated that it would be justified to negotiate with parties in a town, as it were. Does he have any explanation for the prerequisite role then? We all know a strange story about replacements and all of that. Why are negotiations not arranged outside the hospitals to relieve all the court lists? Maybe that's the big question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u90	A respectable president. We're talking about government health policy, the highest. Secretary of health. I must say, of course, it is good and valid to look forward and dress reality in a dress that really doesn't fit him. That's exactly how I feel about the health system today. I would have liked to see more talk about the crisis in our health - care system as well as some factors that I especially want to mention. We've talked about it at the High Council, many of us, how the system will fail those patients who have to turn to it. Consider the fact that there is no room for discrimination. All of us are to be able to use health care and not to differ from one another after another. What does it mean when a sick patient even has to wait an hour for an ambulance, as shown by the Citizens of the East? I mentioned in the council the other day that there was a situation where an injured person had to wait for more than an hour after getting help from a health - care agent who had to come all the way from Eels, since no one was there in that small village and really had no resources. To the contrary, there was a doctor in the area who could intervene, but he had nothing to do with it. He did not have a tranquilizer; in fact, he had no medical products to care for the work he would like to do. Therefore, the patient had to be filled with brandy. I don't know exactly, Mr. Honorable President, if it's the policy we want to see for the next few years. I feel that the development of health care has been at the highest level. The health minister's heading back faster. Now let's talk about some things that are in my heart, and since I've felt like we were getting out of the ashes completely into the fire. First, it's the opioid epidemic. I know there are a lot of people in this country watching both Spotlight and Light. Arrangements were made the other day to show you how to treat medication, how to prescribe it to very sick people. Those with cancer who had been treated so heavily that, although they had long since died, there were still supplies in their home worth some 600,000 dollars. Much of the medicine is opioid, particularly strong pain killers. Such drugs are collected and must be destroyed into dozens of tons each year. This is yet another strange priority for the money we watch, the subsidizing of millions and billions of drugs each year, and so simply spend it. In view of what the Lawgiver is diligent in being prejudiced against the citizens and setting rules that best be followed, where is the forethought? At the same time, we watch deaths as never before as a result of the use of morphine - related drugs called opioids. According to a recent surgeon's report, in 2018, 39 individuals were truly killed because of morphine toxicity. A respectable president. There is no health - care minister to 2030 who in any way takes into account the beautiful goals in the area that I feel are like an electiond dress that doesn't fit them. It's not enough to say 'I love it' and 'cause I want to see it like this, and to be honest, when there's no improvement in sight. It is always good to have a course, but it must also be said what is behind it. How should we reach the target? Doesn't it matter? In this case, it is most disturbing that we have already given 150 million. K. Last year, extra funds did it before Christmas, to meet the addicts, alcoholics asking for help in the hospital of Vogi. It is not enough that we have given them money but that they have not yet been paid, apart from 6.9 million. K. in 2019 C.E. Yeah, you can't pay back again, and I don't know what or what. But how can you understand when the lawgiver himself, the financial authority, sends out certain messages, sends them to the administrations, to those who are going to work to get them started, and then it doesn't, but in this case, he's taking over health insurance for Iceland and making it almost impossible for those agents to comply with their requirements, in order to get what we said would be paid. This also applies to 276 billion. K. Additional funding for health care, which attracts nursing homes and administration throughout the country. A crown has not been paid yet. How amazing it is to expect to see some future course of health for 2030 when even the amount of time that we already have cannot be followed! Then let's talk about outside hospital service. I went into it a little earlier when I pointed out how it worked on the whole city property, when the person was filled with brandy. I've also talked about how the small communities are being treated all over the country when the ambulances are taken off them, e.g. on Ólabundy. The ambulance that has been there, a safety valve for this small community, was moved to the Sports farm because it is now a community society called Mountain Town. So there are two ambulances on Sigluværd, both the one on Olafurdir and the other already on Sigludar. When a patient or another person falls to Ólafjörður and no one knows what's wrong with him while he's sitting on the floor, -- I've heard stories like that, even though I'm not going to mention any names - and the person calls in this great outside hospital service, other nurses at the National Hospital. ▪ What can I do for you who's calling me? The person responds: "Can I contact a doctor? I don't know what's wrong with my sister, but she's practically unconscious on the floor. No, you can't ask about and that and that and you'll have to tell me first, or you won't see a doctor. I don't quite understand where we're headed, but I don't think it's in the right direction. It should, at least, be telling the truth and right about it, calling things the right names. Health services are being reduced in the country. People in the country are becoming increasingly insecure. I don't know if this is part of everyone's going to the city of Reykjavík, but people, families, who have little children, are not well when they know they have to wait half an hour and even an hour before adequate help is needed if something comes up. I'd like to refer to someone we all know, and that's the current mayor of the Mountain House, Gunnar Birgisson. He himself told me more than a year ago that if he had suffered a shock on Ólafsundur, he would fall down there, not on the other side of the tunnel, on a cruise, he would be dead long ago. It is simply showing that each minute counts. Why do we not respect the lives of our citizens as much throughout the earth? I think it's a good question to discuss. As one of my fine associates has often said, we will fight in the natural affairs of those less fortunate in society, and then we will talk about the waiting list. To think, we're talking about a down cycle in the economy. Even a nice soft landing is being announced, whatever it means, because it really needed to be changed all because, as we all know, the basics of the future economic policy were taking an unexpected swing. But knowing, prioritization of funds. It seems completely forbidden to have health insurance deal with specialists here, orthopaedic surgeons and specialists who can operate private rooms in town. Instead, save the waiting lists at the highest level. Healthcare Minister, unless the patient has waited for more than three months, he is entitled to attend in other countries. That service has indeed grown, for it has increased sixfold. There are six times the number of people who have moved abroad after replacement operations since 2016. The cost has been made sevenfold, no less or less. Each patient who has to go abroad for action is paid a traveling companion, a day money, a living retreat, a flight. We are told that we should be progressive, looking ahead, and not to be stuck in old places. In terms of the health system and what is involved in this, we are being shot back in time for more years. It's as simple as that. There's obviously a firm will here to save the money and throw the dollar. I say, Mr. Honorable President, it's better if it's done. The health policy also lacks much in my opinion that there is more work on rehabilitation, aging, public health, prevention, nursing, mental health. There is no clear policy on that point. It is great to set goals, to have medical policies, but it is the least to show how to reach goals. How do they get caught? We watch a long wait list and what it is really like to be isolated from villages in the country and almost let people live in fear of not getting a service that was even available 50 years ago, think about it when I was a kid. Then there was a local surgeon, and we all know it, and we all know it. When the wealth of the land swells and we get richer and better, the sails are gathered in such a service, a vital service. I think this is a great step backwards, and I can't sign this kind of work, not for five bucks. I want to see solutions, not just dreams. I challenge the highest. Health Minister to use the system we have here at home and to try to prevent our citizens from discrimination from living indiscriminately. No matter where they live, safety must be guaranteed when it comes to health care and first aid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She was all right and inspired with power, like a dog. There's a senator. The first thing I cut was the coverage. A member of the pharmaceutical matter, which I found very interesting. The destruction of drugs by even hundreds of millions of people a year is certainly a serious matter that needs to be resolved. At least we got a deal here. published in October 2015, a drug conference to 2020. I agree with what. A senator should, of course, mention these matters during the course of health care because drugs are now a major component of health matters that would have been natural to mention here. I agree with a lot of things. A senator said, e.g. that there should be no mention of aging, nursing, mental health, etc. What I want to think is why. The senator is the review. It is particularly prominent that the Icelandic Medical Association and Medical Association give this direction a fail - score, and so far as to encourage members of Congress not to accept it, say that this policy is really in trouble and that the weakness is a lack of consultation, which is a natural serious thing. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with these reviews? Counts 'em out. A senator's need to remake all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yeah, I worry about our professionals. There's no question, and I guess that's not the least because it's not negotiated with these people. They are not given the option of fully working, e.g. for the patients. Doctors watch our patients from abroad with a wide range of expenses. So I say that there is good reason to take note of this exactly, because it is now often what we want to do here at the High Council, to seek out reports from those who even know better than we do about certain issues. In this case, I say, what. Birgir Þiririr Þórarinsson, that I agree completely with what is stated in the reviews of health professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u93	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I would've done the court case anyway. Halla The sound of "Signý Sisunningsdots" Kristjánsdóttir why. A member of the medical conference followed a procedures. In that sense, there was a reason. A senator to point out that on this basis it was not to mention how to achieve that goal. Like what? paritaprevir Sæland haland rightly mentioned, these goals are not to be pursued in here. If not, then, then. A senator, that some of the programme was involved in this policy, so when we read policy, do we see how to achieve these important goals? Like, for example. Just care for health care, the serious nurse shortage. Now these classes are getting out of agreements, and there's a natural opportunity to make things right. Hundreds of trained nurses are known not to work in the medical sector but to do several other jobs. It is necessary to try to get these agents back into the healthcare field. True, there are noble goals like those of the people, but I believe that there would have to be some plan on how the body of health care professionals should be strengthened. In case of a moment. A senator only wanted to see if she agrees with me in that there has to be some kind of way that is more efficient. It is not enough just to have goals and no means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. I couldn't agree more with that. Senator, that's just the way it is. It lacks everything called action plan and what I stress that will be called behind, that we really see what we're going to do to reach the target. People in first place, it's just great to put something like that on paper. But how can we talk about the extent to which people are in first place when I refer to them in my talk about how people are really discriminated against in the health - care system by means of a living home? And what has to be done to them, and this has been shown in committees since then. The legal committee has been working on building, e.g. A nursing home in an unfashionable manner. A total of too small units where everything needs to be done over and over again. Since even the available space has not been possible. Meanwhile, we are stuck with this so - called efflux problem at a land hospital, which is sure to be the most expensive means by which individuals live. People who want to go home or individuals who are ready to go to the nursing homes where they can afford it. It's basically almost no matter where you look. I just think it's just one squarer just as it is. A complete failure in a plan of action, as I say, and put on some fancy dress and a beautiful vision, but there's no such thing as getting it or following it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u95	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. There are a few things I would like to share, and I'm only worried about. First, I have to say, of course, it's good for health policy to come along, important that it doesn't get misunderstood. Of course, only words on paper are presented to health policy unless a plan follows how to get those words out of the way. How to accomplish it, whether there is money to make all those beautiful words come true. I can't see it will be. However, it is clear from the comments I have learned - I want to be honest with it and to state that I have not been able to read them all - but what I have learned is a significant criticism of the preparation of health policy, i.e. that there is nothing to complain of incoherentness and the way term use is and so on. I also see and find it interesting that the committee seems to settle the case without especially taking advantage of the warnings made, that is, preferably in the opinion of the memory of the Anna Kolbrún brown Annual Árnadóttir, is an excellent attempt to do so. Only if people simply think of it as beautiful words on paper and later have to deal with the big issues. Of course, the policy is nothing more unless it is fully funded and its goals are timed and so on. I wondered, " Have my goals been achieved by the Committee? ' When can we expect them to be timed and financed? I also wondered whether the cost has been put forward or is trying to plan it. I realize it's a long-term policy and it'll probably be replaced a few times. It is important, however, to realize whether or not the cost, the amount, or the cost will be increased, since health costs are obviously high. It is expensive to run a powerful health system, but we certainly want it to be powerful at the same time. It's a question of all this, i.e. the type, the content of itself, or the way it is presented and how credible it is. I see, for example. that nurses make significant comments to definitions or the way they speak of another nurse reminds me that it is said, medical staff, yes. I think it's very important when we start implementing the funding policies to ensure that the measures taken are in place to improve the environment of all these excellent people working in the hospital or in the health system. Nurses are very important, and it would be a strange situation if all of them were to dislodge everything at once. We have strong and fancy doctors, but we also need other staff. They need to be watched so that their work is appreciated and the work environment is good. And that these highly educated people also see opportunities to come back to work in harmony with their education. I'd also like to introduce to you what the Medical Association mentioned in its review, i.e. little if you are talking about patients' rights. Of course, the health - care providers need a certain vision, it's all about them in the past, how they get their services, and how their experiences of the ministry and recovery we expect our customers to achieve. The talks have mentioned, and we've been talking about, and we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson talked it over a little bit, in objections, in consultations, in waiting lists, and in partnerships. This seems to be a criticism of the lack of communication or how the plan was conducted. In particular, it appears to be from those people who are often defined as outside the Kingdom set, which, in itself, is a concern because it is a big, important factor. It is very important that we make sure that this aspect, like the one we have directly under the Kingdom, can function. Doctors or other health care professionals who have the opportunity to render good service outside hospitals or to the whole state system. Of course, this must be so that it is acceptable and can produce results. This makes me feel critical. It is also obvious that there is little work to shorten the waiting list. It is not evident that in such a policy, there are no operations to cut on the waiting list. Of course, goals and funding must be established, what they should be like. Waiting lists are one of many health - care problems and challenges. Of course, it's the best. Mr President, I'm going to allow myself to use that word, crazy, how we see the system working when it comes to taking private agents outside hospitals to perform operations, e.g. changes in joints and such. It's very specific how this is being done. You have the impression that there is a paradox that controls that this is not the case, i.e. To this knot. Then there are the free society that is of utmost importance. In modern health ministers, it may seem that like doctors and professionals working in private rooms, they met an amazingly cold, uncooperative or lack of communication. It is very special not to see the benefits of taking the initiative and the ideas that are available to individuals outside this traditional system, if you don't mind me saying so. It's just a few points, topv. Mr. President, who I thought was right to go over. In the context of my section, this is precisely a focus on the use of private resources which, if it is carried out, can act in a more practical and even more practical way than the state's payoff. I don't think it's possible to install a system or implement a policy that will compromise this possibility. I think it is a great challenge and motivation for health care professionals to educate themselves and participate in this business if it is an opportunity, whether it be doctors, nurses, hospital staff, or others, to work outside this traditional plot, so to speak, and thus to use their knowledge to go to some new creation and such. There seems to be something else that is not discussed in the council concluded by the memory of the section rehabilitation, extramarital and public health nursing services - it seems to me that the word is just once in the motion, at least at a quick lecture - prevention, nursing and mental health. You wonder, " Is ideologies here presenting some popular words and then able to stir into all the soup on your own terms? ' Or whether we expect a more detailed program to come later. It doesn't seem to be. It's like they're trying to pick up the box, but somehow they're trying to roll with it the way a minister likes. The number of older citizens is increasing with improved health. It's important that you watch it too. I cannot help but mention hospital care and health care that are outside the capital. It is extremely important to look for, for example. The Akureyri hospital will be in such a state that when it comes to possible services, and they will be built up, I would say service, or I could say that is so close to being the Landskeeper. I don't trust to say this strong, for I may not have the skills to use the stronger words. In my mind, it is clear that the outstanding activity there is needed to be given the opportunity to grow even more. That's what I think is good for all of us and would ease the strain of our large hospital, which, of course, is our flagship in the health system, the land hospital. The land hospital and its management and activities, although excellent in all places, are not above criticism in any way, as are other functions; therefore, it is also to be observed. I'm not gonna spend many words in the construction of the new hospital, which, of course, is completely fucked up. It's based in a new place, but it's already being discussed. Of course, we need to continue to remind ourselves of it, for it seems that it is still the best way to build a new hospital in a new place and to resolve to do so. Service rates and such are discussed. Of course, the needs of the people and, of course, the needs of health - care providers need to take into account the circumstances and needs of the country around them. It is not possible for me to offer such a ministry as it is today. If you have any questions, call the phone and try to resolve the matter through the phone without seeing the person or feeling what the person is asking for. For many who live outside the larger urban areas, the doctor has gone a long way today. It's a big comeback. More important, because in many cases the ministry has deteriorated and transportation has not improved at the same time or because there has been an opportunity for people to reach out. It has even gotten worse or at least not improved, and the ministry goes back. Madam President. I wanted to come to some questions about health policy. It's good to make a policy, but the expectations were considerably higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson speech. He came on a very interesting thing that I see, when I start to think again, that was kind of a little discussed in this health policy, and that's the patient's rights. There should have been a few pages in such a direction, just about those rights. Does he agree with me that people's rights are completely broken when they forget months or years of waiting? There is no prior priority for a person's condition, who has the right to be first, but it seems that each one is on the patient's waiting list. As a result, it is difficult to keep track of the need. It would have had to be on course, to define this kind of thing properly right away. Then it's the course itself. It sounds like it's what it's going to be. A senator thinks she's half-thin'. Then I'd also like to ask him how he likes the policy in relation to the need in the country. It reveals that small rural communities who once had some service but apparently had no service today are seriously affected. What would a senator consider necessary to ensure that this service is effective for all the people of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u97	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. Yes, I quoted the exact comment of the Iceland Medical Association, where they even speak. that it is peculiar not to mention the patient's rights in this healthcare policy. Of course, as health care providers or as patients, citizens of this country, we need to see what policy it is regarding the human factor or the patient's aspects, which service we have, for example. the right time. How does it describe the future? You wonder, " Is it a policy to establish a policy that aims for each patient to wait until then and so long after service, that it is the course, and then the purpose is: We're going to get it this way, and it's gonna be funded like this? ' It's an example that you would have thought would be a good idea to come along in a direction like this. It may be that we will see some other document in which a goal description is made. But as it is now, we agree with the Medical Association, there is no discussion of these rights. The course is thin, said it. Senator. What I'm stressing is that while we don't have the goals and how we're going to get them and how they are funded, there's nothing in themselves except a statement or a word on paper. We can put in writing many beautiful words. We can snooze about the other one, but to achieve it, something must be stuck. Something that we can point out and say: We have a goal here, and we are going to get it that way and finance it in this way. That way, I think that most of us would like to see the health policy look like it. It does not seem to have been tried in this case, although I can say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. There's another thing he came in on, i.e. lack of nurses, which is, in many respects, a drooping system. Large increases in hospital procedures could be observed if removed. The waiting lists are advancing to the beat of the shortage. Then came the reason. A senator also entered a free organization that has been doing really good things. I would say that in this course there would have been something about this free organization, how to strengthen them. I fear that many members of the organization who have been doing great things are beginning to lose their numbers because they are not strong enough and are not clear enough how to keep them running. Then there's the last one, i.e. The private labs. We use them a lot today. That's why it's a little weird if you start thinking that you can go to the Power House, you can go to Domus Medical, you can go to a certain place and get a certain service. Then you can't go and get another service, which in itself is incomprehensible because it's all about the same thing, trying to get the person to self - preservation as soon as possible. It is incomprehensible that it is okay to do one thing and not another. Isn't such a policy characteristic of this class of cool policy, which means it's just a bit of a delinquency?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u99	Mr. President. Perhaps it can be said as well. A senator does, while there's no aim and realize how this is going to be done, there's no policy. It is called health policy, and there are certain descriptions and beautiful promises that we must consider positive. However, if they are not being followed and we are not able to finance them and carry them out, it is a natural meaningless document, a complete failure of policy. Regarding the nurses, at least there has been a lack of nurses at the Land Hospital. Is it not old - fashioned to have multiple goals in medical science? I wondered if it's not yet, so we have to have it all open so that people can learn. Now I don't know if any changes have made, but I'd like to see it this way. The waiting lists seem to be extended, or at least they can be processed. Then you can play into a lack of policy, lack of capital, lack of staff. But all of this is something I think we must be able to react. Looks like it. On the efforts to solve the issue that has been largely in the media, there is a lack of desire to solve the problem. Regarding the free society, we can ask ourselves, " What would the situation be if they all cut off? ' How would they be put under pressure? Then there was nothing to say on paper. Then we'd be looking at an emergency beyond what it is today. It is odd if the health ministers and the machines with this date do not see it and take the risk of driving these people off the board or making it difficult for them to do so, and this wonderful organization is beginning to think. It's a hell of a comeback, if you do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u100	President. When the discussion began a few weeks ago, the committee's viewpoint was highly tore up. There's no need for me to repeat it here, but I still want to be happy that there's a health policy. In many respects, it is wise to have complete foundations and then to work on them. I understand that this is the very idea and that it is to be expected very soon that we will be allowed to see procedures that are a subset of policy subtypes in the most basic categories of issues such as aging and physical transportation and design, brain failure and drug abuse, etc. What repeatedly appeared among the members of the health committee is that there was a lack of consultation with the policy, and that is unfortunate. That's why I'd like to encourage the highest. A health secretary to improve the discussion when it comes to such work in the future, but also at work, since it is very important to consult effectively and that the stakeholders get to work. Also, I would like to reiterate the importance of a health minister's careful monitoring of policy, follow-up of policy, and some measure of success. A future view for health care at health care, with the permission of a president, shows that international health care and public health work, with emphasis on health benefits and prevention, will become part of all services, especially health care services. I would like to underscore the importance of this article and the importance of maintaining prevention in maintaining health care and all subtypes of the policy, since the health - prevention revolution is in place. It is vital that we be leading and exemplary in that work. It is also very important to examine the context of things, especially when considering prevention of poverty and trauma. Therefore, it is important that health prevention work be done in consultation with other departments and are taken into account in the overall context of the economic and social status of individuals in the community. This is the approach which e.g. The World Health Organization speaks of as a first - degree prevention or, with permission of the president, a prenup which includes measures aimed at preventing disease and watching. for the impacts of social and economic health impacts and thereby provide preventative measures. Tyler Norris, vice president of Kaiser Personale, U.S.A., is one of the largest health care providers in the United States, an insurance company, has talked about the confusion that has existed about the real reasons for good or poor health. He believes that the solution is much more likely to be improved by the economic and social conditions of people than by e.g. with medical treatment and drug use. It's very interesting that this is in the discussion with that big company. In the United States, an mail number has a high level of social and economic status, which makes Tyler Norris feel that the mail number means more about people's health than about genetics. It's a rather strong wording. The secret to good health according to Norris does not necessarily involve technological advances and medical discoveries but depend on the system of the economy, i.e. as the economy meets the needs of all health problems. I think this is a bit of the core of this discussion, and if we really mean it with this prevention, a phase one, we must be thinking how these systems of ours are affecting each other and looking to the social and economic status of people, and whether we can't keep track of the fact that we're picking people up early and preventing people from living in a state of intensive living in Iceland under all the pressures we know to create a lot of future health problems and cost us a lot of money. If I don't, I'll celebrate this health policy. I don't have much more to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u101	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and the head of the welfare committee for an excellent review of this committee and health policy. I'd like to ask the senator a few things. I think, for example. The region carries a small part from the health policy level, especially the health - care providers. Similarly, the senator's initial warnings about prevention do not include much of the prevention, rehabilitation, aging services, out - of - hospital services, public health, and mental health issues. Was this not examined at the Committee's Office, and if so, why was this not included in the latter opinion of the majority of the section? Then, too, I see a review from the Land Association of older citizens, where they point to the obvious fact that older citizens are growing a lot, and then we need to respond by making arrangements to expand our ministry. As only with the funding of this program, if the senator can determine whether or not she is loyal. I hope this isn't too much of a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u102	President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. As I spoke in my speech, this is a course, and it is thought to be a complete foundation. It should be used to implement subdirectories of the policy or actions and it will be implemented by e.g. It's aging, brain failure, design, and other vital factors. I hope that you will have a good talk, and people will get to that job, and we'll see it very soon. I just don't agree with what. Senator. We combined in a sense in the Committee's work that we don't feel it right to be improving all the aspects of policy when we know that there is a strategy to be met. That's the main thing I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u103	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I may not have realized that the committee would have agreed that this was the stage, but well. It's natural, but all in my mind are prevention in the large realm of that word, such as rehabilitation, mental health, alcohol and drugs prevention, and so on, just general prevention, in order to help people not to become ill and to deal with their bodies in a responsible way. As a result, it saves tremendous financial resources to the health system. This is what a man has read reports about, and I know that the Senator agrees completely with me in that. But based on the senator's response, I don't think I'm turning my arm on the person's arm anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u104	A respectable president. As I sometimes do with bills that are not directly related to my committee, I often come across the section on impact. When it comes to a policy that is very much discussed in financial planning, I feel that it is necessary to point out that the government's policy is also being put forward in a financial program. And why do I have to repeat it? This is because the section on impact assessment says, by permission of the president: It is planned that it will follow a five-year plan, which will be reviewed annually while the policy is in effect. It is not expected that policy alone, without a plan of action, will lead to an increase in costs or any other effect Then, at the end of this chapter, it is said: ▪... it can be assumed that some measures may require outside counselors that will result in temporary costs that should be contained within the Ministry's financial resources. This is not really expected to result in any further expense. The problem is that we obviously have health systems that are lacking funds. And the reason why I say that when I had been working on a financial plan and in it, I needed funding for exactly the classes on which this is addressed, most of which are due to a nursing home. However, the financial program, which is also government policy, is set aside by governments. In 2020, a nursing home has a total of 1.1 billion, and in 2024 there is a total of 3.5 billion. They simply don't have a financial plan. It's said to be contained within the ministry funds. What, then, will the funds be? Will it not be higher because the policy is to set certain increased demands? Given the current operation, money is missing, so I don't see that the assessment of effects is correct. Of course, this will cost some money, perhaps temporarily because of the building up, but perhaps permanently. When I look at a policy, I always try to figure out what the situation will be when the policy is over. So where are we gonna be? A follow-up of policy is simply stated: What will be the situation of 2030? It's very convenient, and it's not common to be found in such documents. It lists ten things that I don't feel are exactly the problem we are facing now that we have to solve that problem then. True, it is said that there will be the right service and positive things, and it will be said of adjusting the man - made problem and of doing the same. But the design problem is right now. He can also be dealt with in the financial program, the Action Programme there. The problem we face is exactly a lack of health care professionals, e.g. Nurses and other classes within the medical system. This makes it possible for new nursing homes to be opened in recent times, lacking nurses. You need nurses to open up more spaces. About 40 nurses could be opened, not more because they needed more nurses. It's already been built. They are ready to cope with the flow problem at the Land Hospital, but they cannot be opened because they need nurses. Also, there are no nurses in the hospital, so there are departments closed, various spaces, because patients cannot be brought out, or those who are no longer patients, who are in the flow, are on the way to recovery, and they need help or other types of space than they do at the Land Hospital. These people are stuck in the Land Hospital in much more expensive resources than they would be in a nursing home because they need nurses. It's a problem in both directions. More nurses are needed at the Land Hospital to care for these people who cannot get out of the Land hospital in a less expensive space that has room but not nurses. We're going to get into this kind of round-up shit there. I can't quite figure out why it can't be moved from one side of the expensive resource to some of the cheaper resources on the other side, to the solution available to relieve. It has shown that the problem is that nurses pay less in nursing homes, so they go to the Land Hospital, which is certainly missing as well as nurses, this is not quite perfect. They'll never really get in. And because there are many nurses, they actually get stuck in the Land Hospital or in similar places that pay better than the nursing home. The solution to these efflux problems will never be obtained until the pay either increases the conditions in the nursing homes or others are added to the group. It was foretold for the last financial plan or budget, where the head of a department at the Land Hospital, who no longer tolerated the situation, said: I'm going to hire ten more nurses. The message he received was: Yeah, sure, go ahead. He advertised and advertised, but it did not matter, for none of them were found to be involved. That is the problem in our case. There is no nursing home for years and decades, since many elderly ones will be greatly increased after 2024. In order to reach that situation, there is a better situation to build for that increase. If we are going to receive people, people are needed to serve there. They'll need men, too. Building a house is not enough. It must also be noted that the designer, who is presented in the Senate arrangement and is only very good. I can't wait to see that plan there. But as I point out, governments can also show up in financial programs. We are facing this crisis exactly now. The government's policy is for the next five years. This too is to be the case. We're not supposed to have to wait for a plan of action, which is likely to have to wait for the next year's financial plan or more, I don't know. In a financial program, policy should be established. This will be expected if the operation plan is not performed until later and does not enter until 2021, or so on, as it will result in an increase in costs of repairs that need to be carried out with increased requirements for design, etc. However, they are to be expected to make money in a financial program now. That's what I miss mostly in this other fine health policy; I think she says too little about what needs to be done, saying about the circumstances, what's the big picture. Where are the demographic changes in this subject that we need to apply? How many nursing homes or university hospitals, clinics, or health care clinics, doctors, and nurses do we expect to need to live under the health system at this time? Then we have the basic picture of how great the design must be to get to it. I feel that there is only a lack of such data in this strategy, which is the basis for a further action plan, which will better establish the standards and goals that we will see in the budget. But again, there's no money plan. I complain about this assessment of an effect, which is very brief and says there is no need for money. Under the circumstances now, 4.6 billion is missing, it is simply missing. We know that this money will be costable if the nursing facilities are being built. They should not be left empty. So these two things, so this doesn't cost anything - yes, we know it costs something, and we even know that the current budget is missing. That's what I have to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for his passage, which was very good. I singled out that he spoke a lot about man - made problems in the system, and I felt that he was too often talking about the macaroni problems of nurses. That I don't need so many nurses in a nursing home, there are other classes under which I think it's important that we pay attention. There are, for example. sick people, carers, therapists, physical therapists, all these side classes, and we can mention more and more factors. But it was really good, though. I also wondered that a number of those who are able to study with a nurse at the University of Iceland have already been increased. Unfortunately, the University of Akureyri cannot take more studies, so it's all hanging out somehow. I want to agree with the word that we need to identify the need, just like that. Besides, I think it's perfectly accurate to say that the financial program is very strong. Once financial programs have been submitted, there can be a plan of action when you know what you have to eat, if I can put it that way. But mostly this, anyway. A senator does not agree with me that we need to look to all classes and to determine the need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u106	A respectable president. That's exactly what I mentioned. Nurses, I don't trust myself entirely in the list, it's quite wide and varied and very different where it's missing and how many. For analysis of the need, yes, procedures follow analyses. This policy does not quite cover the analysis. It reaches where we are going to be in 2030, and it seems to who what that means, whether it's enough or missing. For example, there is something else about nursing homes in the field of health care, a major part of the health - care system. But it's all right to start there, even if there are holes in specific places to fill. She's really good for her doll that way. What follows is, of course, the need to analyze and based on this analysis, you can decide which actions are intelligent to meet the goals that your problems show you. As I traced it, I felt that many of the problems were obvious that they should be addressed in the financial program mentioned first. 18 factors proposed by the health minister and nine items to be solved within the medical institutions are discussed, but there are no costs. We have no idea what action it is, whether it costs something, or what the goal is with it. I feel like there's a lot of transparency in this. Without the transparency, we have no idea why we're paying this money after all, as the McKinsey report said, that the health system is really narrowed here and very well run in that way. If we're going to add some money, we need to know what we're going to put it into. [[The president calls.]] But we're not getting that information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u107	V.E.G. President. It's fine. If we start with this, there is no clear priority, if I can put it that way, who they are and where we should put the money. Medical care is mentioned as the first stop, which, in turn, does not keep water because people never get to the clinic, so they go to the emergency room because they get their medical condition sooner. I think that's kind of the point. That is why in my minority home, I put much emphasis on increasing the path of health care and the country. If I go back to the nurses a little bit, and whatever. A senator entered his talk with the address at the Land Hospital, and we know that nurses there are overpayed. Even so, we can ask ourselves, " Is it not the most important means of living? ' That says it's good to remember that the level wage standard, as good as it is, he doesn't take into account the different institutions. That means that a nurse in a hospital will always be overpayed, but a Southnes nurse will not have the chance to do that. It's not possible to even the strains. That's what's the big problem, I think. But there are other factors. But at the end, I wondered. Hv. A senator says we want to know where the funds are going. I'm sure the Landspians are the most expensive resource because there are always certain groups of professionals who make it the most expensive to attend service there. I've sometimes wondered whether to separate the Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital from the emergency department because we're biting around the same rooms. We're biting on the same staff, and this is increasing misunderstandings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u108	A respectable president. Yes, it's definitely a problem. Health care should be the first stop, but it's not until you're waiting for a long wait. You can be there in a few hours. Four days a day, they get in to some sort of emergency doctors there. Otherwise, there are other options that are better known. More than one third of the nation spends a year in the emergency department, which is abnormally large, but the bioavailability is really just around the capital area. Clearly, there is no policy on how patients run around the system, where they go first, and that there is someone who can receive them, no matter where the country is, as the policy is said: right service in place. Which is a great goal. I look forward to seeing the actions of the government there. I don't agree that the equal wage standard is so great, it's pretty expensive and heavy, and so on, but I hope he'll have some results. At least he'll give us information. In terms of LSH being the most expensive option, it is not quite true, as shown in Mckinseyr's report. In part he is definitely so, as, for example. about the flow problem. Nurse space there is, of course, very expensive, but what he does and what he's supposed to do in those roles is only highly efficient and cheap compared to a comparable hospital in the North countries. The land hospital is very well - equipped for all the information we have but has specific problems, e.g. medical contracts, how they are not financed, and the conduct of nurses, how you have a job. And then this flow problem, which is a certain circle-strikes. Overall, these problems do not seem so complicated. But having professionals when they need them when they're short and they're just out of society, that's true, there's plenty of nurses, and all they need to do is get them back to work, but it's not easy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't envy people doing that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u109	Madam President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on health policy to 2030. I'm willing to say a few words about this matter, hopefully not too far off. First, I would like to refer to the lesser part of the welfare committee signed by the river. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, in which she gives several important observations and comments and as a result of the Central Party's policy on this important topic. Thus, there is the fact that there are very good reviews, many of which. I intend to kill down in a few places. There is no way for all of them to be referred to as worthwhile. I'd like to begin by saying a few words about the comments of Iceland's Medical Association. But there is a letter from the Medical Association, one on the other, to the World Committee of February 2019, where the Medical Association has provided a detailed comment and tips on how health policies are presented. At the same time, it is said that the Society is not able to see that any of its comment or comments in policy development itself, though it seems that there was some point that they could find their way into the report. Of course, it is very important, Madam President, that this matter is carefully agreed. That is exactly what happened in the letter from Iceland's Medical Association to the highest level. Minister of health available to benefit from the procedure. It's from December 18th. It says, by permission of the president: THE estimate is that it would have been desirable to have more and more comprehensive consultation with stakeholders in preparing these policies. They further say that the Medical Association wants to communicate: To ensure that all services in the public health system should be based on a well-founded study are needed at health conferences. Management provided without the presence of diagnosis and appropriate medical management is a threat to health care quality and safety. A policy discussion on the well - being and functioning of the human health system is also lacking. There is no mention of reforms relating to work preparation, flexibility in working, health and well - being of employees, nor to contribute to counter-improvement of stress factors in work and work environment. No minimum safety criteria are required in caring for healthcare units. There is no aim for the safety of employees. There is no mention of a reexamination of the health - care programme. These are important points, and not all are completed in this medical letter, since it says: No patient rights are required. Nowhere is the agent of a patient appointed, and no patient organization is mentioned. SIGN suggests that goals for 2030 will have been established by an all - patient organization that has a secure, professional foundation. Then he says further: ▪ IMITA warns against the ideas of health care professionals that users of health care are to be deprived of the rights to choose the services they feel they need and services to provide them. LISTEN disagrees with the healthcare conference's approach to basic health services in the region of Iands and may be considered sufficient to replace it with a distant health care provider. Then I would like to mention that the review follows very detailed comments in an article on the part of the company. This is the subject with the evidence, and it is the most informative of reading and very beneficial. I expect it to be taken into consideration and a major part of a ship when it comes to reviewing health policy. Then, Madam President, I think it is proper to briefly refer to the Icelandic nurses' society. It points out that prevention and public health are lacking in the Congress resolution. According to the Community, a precautionary and public health policy must be established. It also states that there is no specific mention of rehabilitation in the Parliamentary arrangement and, at the same time, a growing aspect of health care. Therefore, the company feels that it is important to introduce them to health policy. Similarly, the review says that although the elderly are clearly a growing group in need of health care for the next decade, there is not a single word in nursing homes or nursing care. Finally, I'd like to conclude with the permission of a president from the National Nurses Association: The importance of nursing care is highlighted by the American Nurses'brochure to highlight the importance of research and science, thus stressing the importance of nursing care provided by nurses and nurses to have the opportunity to work in scientific research and/or quality projects within the nurse for a certain period of year. Nurses are also given greater access to scientific research as well as access to health data and databases. In this regard, it is worth a reminder of a bill for scientific research in the medical field (the payment of the Scientific Committee), which is being proposed for increased costs of scientific research in the field of health care. It is a procedure that will not add to scientific activity in health care but, rather, in the contrary. There are other helpful tips in the review that do not have time to draw closer to one another. I'd like to finally take part in the content of the corporate organisation for welfare services. It includes, by permission of a president, the provision of nursing homes and rehabilitation institutions and how these institutions are to function as part of the medical system: ▪ It remains that basic rules regarding government policy in these categories remain. What is government policy, e.g. About the future role and management of nursing homes? Is it the government's intention to have their nursing home palliative care and extensive nursing, as has been the course of the past few years? Or a nursing home is intended to send family members to hospitals more often, as is done, for example. correspondent in Denmark In nursing homes and the funds paid to their homes, what route is being taken to affect professional care? It also matters in the construction and organization of a new hospital, so if the medical staff's service level is to decrease what it has been in the past few years, it must be expected of more people at the hospital. A decision must then be made whether to perform the same service in all the nursing homes in the country, regardless of size and location. Are general nursing facilities for all long - suffering individuals, or are aging institutions specialised in aging medicine? Yes, Madam President. Here, indeed, we face very important issues. Go on says: Then there is no discussion at the health conference on a vision of the governor's role and operating of the rehabilitation institutions. What role do such institutions play in the future? How does control view their activities as part of the medical system? And finally, from the review: If a basic government view of the role and service stage of these institutions is observed, then it will not be completed. Madam President. Finally, I would like to agree with the specific financial issues that have been mentioned at times on my part and on other issues. Councilmen, who are so compelled to stop the barrier that older citizens who have the will and ability to improve their interests by working more fully. There are lions on the road that are impaired in improvement. They know a discussion about the so - called vacation market where employment income is expected to be more than 100,000 dollars. leads to loss of the social security system. I refer to studies that have been carried out on unconcerned materials and have concluded that a government fund can effectively eliminate these obstacles. When I said state funds, I mean, of course, the state. The government can, without cost, do this. It is the conclusion of this study by a well - established expert on this field, Dr. Arnþórsson Arthorsson's son, that canceling the income market in general would not result in a cent's financial debt but would result in increased income production by the increased employment that would include paying taxes, as well as tax returns. It would even be expected that government funds would benefit from that change rather than from cost. I allow me to finish my case by urging that this point will be taken into consideration as soon as the first health policy is presented. It may be noted that not long ago we discussed a report of the Government Reexamination that made a search for health policy and came back empty - handed. She didn't feel bad. This is an effort to correct the situation. Many things are well done, but as the reviews have been cited, consultation would have had to be better and a wider view of the area would have been needed than apparently in the course of the policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u110	Madam President. Here we will discuss a proposal for a resolution on health policy to 2030, a second. As soon as there's an attempt to explain the long - term policy of our health care services, there's a lot of good information to be found in this policy, I have to declare disappointed in how vague and generally this policy is. In itself, you can read what is pleasing to your readers. It is never good when such policies are so widely put into practice, especially when it is noted that this is the only direct approach to the World Health Organization in this regard. Because on the basis of this policy, a minister will then be able to put in motion plans for five years, which will come to the council for information only, not for any material gain or change. Hence, it is quite disappointing to see how the small changes in the majority of the committee are taking place on such policies and inconspicuous efforts to sharpen the key issues found in policy reviews, including. in my coverage of objects. What adds to my concern is the policy of the current medical government. It is always becoming clearer and clearer that the medical policy of the present government is a policy for the health system, and then the official part, or stately, of the health system, not for health - care professionals, us citizens. The importance of our health cannot be overemphasized. If we look at this in a larger context, more than one quarter of the government budgets to our health system and more than half the government budget goes to the overall welfare system. There is bound to be a very large interaction between the welfare system and the health system. With a reasonable investment in the health of the population, the effectiveness of the people of the country, significant financial resources can be saved into the social part of the welfare system, e.g. As we look at an ever - increasing rate of disability in this country and various problems associated with spiritual illness. Therefore, there is considerable concern about how little we can discuss these aspects of policy. It's, for example. It's hardly a question of the rehabilitation of anything intern. How amazing it is when we see that this context has been very well - known for years! For example, it has been highly emphasised on the matters of disability, how important it is for us to place in the health - care system, rehabilitation, and various forms of efficiency for users of this service. That's why I miss much more coverage than I find on these issues in policy. Furthermore, I am sorry that the purpose of this policy is weak. It's extremely vague. I hereby refer to my case in support of the President's permission, the chapter of the Prosecution. It says in the 1st column: ▪ Icelanders will be among the great nations in publishing data on the intended health benefits. Our goal must be to run health - care systems in the front row. Here, a person would have wanted to see clearer goals on what our health - care goals are. How will we measure them? How will we keep track of the progress ahead? Instead, we get a general word for quality, not for who it should be. It's a very systematic thought, I think. It must be our primary obligation when we set out health policy for over a decade, to set in that direction a very clear goal of what we want to accomplish in the advancement of the quality of our ministry, so that our medical services will be more useful to our users in the years to come. Of course, there is good reason to be concerned about the policies of the present government, which, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, the aim appears to be primarily health - care system itself, not for its users. We have seen several examples of spending large amounts of money on the health system without any measurable results. Recently, surgeons published the results of their assessment of what was called a series of conflicts that were most disappointing. It was not surprising in itself. The vast increase in funds set on shortening waiting lists in various fields had not yielded to the desired results, far from that point of view. I just had a place to say to the highest. A health minister where I discussed this very problem, that we even see less efficiency in certain areas of the medical system, especially when such situations would occur. that there may be a reduction in the number of treatments, intraocular operations, and so forth, in which extra funds are being given to work on the waiting list, but the number of measures would be reduced, waiting even to be prolonged. To me, this is mainly committed by the current government's policy. That all new funding into the system must go to the state-running system instead of looking to simple approaches: Where is the most useful capital, both costlyly provided for the state funds, but less productively provided for users of the ministry? How does the needs of users of health care best come about by means of health care, as much as by the time possible, and as practical for a government fund? I think this would have meant spending a considerable amount of time setting clear goals in each area. As we look at factors such as efficient shopping, there is still a wide range of general expressions on how it should be worked, but there is no way in which we can see that there are any measurable targets of success that can be measured by which this policy works. In fact, it is the red thread, or theme, of all this policy. In time, there will be no way to assess the results of her efforts. I hope the health plans are highest. A health minister will become more valuable in this regard, yet there will be actual, measurable goals that we can better evaluate our effectiveness. Only back to what I mentioned at the outset, the interaction between social and health services. I miss seeing more coverage on the importance of that interaction again. I mentioned a complete lack of discussion of vital factors, such as mental health, psychological services, the rehabilitation that is hardly mentioned here. We see, as explained in a more recent report published by the former social security minister Páll Árnason worked for the Norwegian Minister, how important it is that we use innovation in our welfare services. Our thinking on new ways to render the service they really need, that we are not overcrowded about where that service is rendered, in what way, because we are always seeing the importance of the wide variety of resources. What is important for users of the ministry to be able to choose acceptable services, to have alternative options, especially when it comes to mental - health and mental - health services. We see a number of examples here and in the other North countries, all sorts of new ways to go, often self - rated adults, set out by free society, where only the box is thought out. Rather than being caught in the way things have been done, people ask: " How can we help the individuals with a variety of problems that benefit them? It shows that individualized approach is of utmost importance and does not produce only more results than old - fashioned, traditional means, but it is much more practical for a government fund as a payer of the ministry. Of that, we all agree here, that we want public health systems in the context of the state that favors the ministry and that the expense of its users is as low as possible. But we must not put ourselves in the downtrodden as the present government is absolutely firm in that all service must be granted by the State. It is especially important to keep in mind that our medical services today, as well as our welfare services as a whole, are a large part of a wide range of non - state business partners. By no means are businesses or organizations being run for profit. But we see a nursing home, a home run by self - interest. We see a very wide variety of fleas in the welfare system with very interesting tasks, such as Comfort and more, user-controlled services, even peer service where we see considerable success at a much lower cost than in the current state-bound system. Therefore, when we set health care policies for the next 11 years, as this is, it is so important to think about them from the users of the ministry rather than from the systems itself, that the policy is not set for the system but for us as its users. And at the same time, we are maximizing the quality of our ministry, ensuring that the services are performed with the most efficient efficiency, for we know, yes, what challenges we face with the increased health and welfare costs of the overall public service. as the nation's average age increases and, of course, the growing demands we make to our health and well - being services as a whole. Thus efficiency is of immense importance. In this area as well as in others, we are expected to use a variety of resources, including personal skills, to promote innovation, competition to provide the best and most efficient services, and, above all, to ensure staff of the welfare system, health - care professionals, varied work opportunities. Of course, when it comes to the design we face, especially within the medical system, it is of utmost importance that we have a wide range of employment opportunities within it, that our only options are not for specialists or for recruiting, e.g. in a hospital. It also helps us to attract people to the country of qualified employees, whether Icelandic or foreign. It's just the same in this environment as it does with each other, people want to have a choice. People want to be able to choose between different workplaces, to choose many opportunities. That is why, as it is, I have to say, this practice to establish a clear and effective long - term course of health has not been successful, at any rate, on my part. We would have had to spend a considerable amount of time on it. Again: The small change in policy in the treatment of the council is also disappointing. I really hope that when it comes to discussing the individual needs of health care in a discussion of financial plans and budgets for the coming years, we will be able to make better decisions and will not be needing to keep the current level. Department of Health for the topic of attention now for users of the service rather than for the system itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u111	A respectable president. Hv. A senator noted the measurable goals of which we committees of the budget are dealing very much with, aims and standards, and actions that are no longer in the budget but that are much more diverse than in the medical conference. Yes, there can certainly be a schedule of action that is missing, not just the schedule of action itself, but some measurable goals as well. But I wanted to ask. A senator, as I discussed in my talk, comments on whether we have considered the effects well enough. It is said that the evaluation of the impact of this synonym will not cost anything. To set such a policy and say that the cost will later appear in action programmes, and not even say, just that it is later contained within the Ministry's budget, is that realistic? Pending that project later, in a plan of action? Don't need a total cost frame for such a policy, if we just look at it from a financial point of view, around financial programs, etc.? We need to take note of this policy in financial programmes, and we already know that there is a 4.6 billion missing just for nursing homes for 2023,2024. Clearly, the cost is someone. Don't you think it's time to make things clearer right here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I wholeheartedly agree with this, and a future conference like this should be a major challenge for us, of what our future need for nursing homes is, of what our future need is in building up in the various areas of health care, whether we look to health care, mental health care, hospitals themselves, etc. For example, we see a number of factors, such as the growing rate of replacement operations, as one of the country's average age fish. I miss a great deal of effort not to contribute some measure on this scale and the cost of building up the health system in order to meet these challenges, the potential for us to approach things in a new way, and to get some practical advantage in the ministry or in a new approach. Once again, I remind myself of the interaction of the entire health system with the health system and how the procedures of the individual social, social, or health systems can save substantial expenses on one side with even relatively small expenses on the other. There you would have wanted to see much clearer goals. Of course, there is little point to talking about goals such as efficiency and quality if we have no ratings on how we will measure our success, where we are heading, how we will evaluate whether we are going to go there or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u113	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke extensively about the government's policy of putting all the money into the public system. However, it is also mentioned in the section "Skillful Service Meeting, " by the permission of a president, that: Iceland's health insurance insurance pays all contracts to buy health care on behalf of the State, whether it is public or private services. At any rate, it makes sense that not all health care professionals need to be public employees according to their policy, that's something. My imagination started under each speech. A senator and I thought it might be very appropriate to have a phone program or smartfort, app or so on, since you could find out where to go. Health care should be the first stop, but we know it's not working. But if you thought you were broken or had an open cut or something like that, the app would say to a person: Go there. This could refer to any employee, public servant, or private health care, because health insurance will see whether the contracts are involved, the consumer has already paid for the ministry regardless of who does. After all, it may be the system that was. A senator was calling for, this public financed system, if I understood it correctly, but not necessarily by whom people have come to meet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u114	Mr. President. What an interesting question! Senator. It is true that it is a pleasure to specifically mention that health insurance should handle contracts with all providers, who, of course, are very normal. Medical insurance should have the responsibility rather that the needs of the services of the ministry are met in the most efficient way and put them into agreement for the most suitable people in this comparison. I've got some concerns myself, such as. when it comes to the so-called DRG approach, i.e. to negotiate with some kind of unit cost. We hear endless examples of the domestic hospital being using some kind of variable cost of action while people in private business have to pay all their business expenses, as the National Hospital, of course, also needs to be paid. It is interesting to wonder whether it can be that the Land Hospital method is accessing new projects, i.e. That the loss of the hospital is increasing, for of course you also need to support support support as you grow. If it's not being charged with contracts e.g. a waiting list or such will only show up somewhere in the business in increasing losses. That's the situation we'll see at Land Hospital in the past year, that's quite a limp. The rest of it. I think that there is an enormous amount of opportunity for us, and there is an increasing emphasis on electronic solutions in health care, especially when it comes to health care. I know that I still need to, if I'm not going to wait four to five weeks after an interview with my home physician, to start by waiting in line on the phone to see if I can get a half-hour interview after a week, instead of just registering myself through an electronic service puzzle or even sending the doctor directly to the doctor for a simple interview I need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we have a lot of opportunity there to increase both the level of service and the efficiency of the system at the same time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u115	A respectable president. Road - to - traffic bill is no tiny dolls, 118 pages with a paper and everything. It has been in preparation for a long time and has often been suggested before, but not reached through. As the bill came to an environment and transport committee, it was with a number of factors that the manager had made comments and the committee only responded very well to the comments made. It was done, for example. for drunk driving, reducing the proportion of alcohol consumption. The way it was set, I think, only a very good conclusion after all, no really changing from the present arrangement, but that it is stated clearly in law rather than police regulations or regulations. Then there is the objective responsibility, which is here at the end, that was discussed a lot, and it led to a very good conclusion. The third thing that rang my alarm bells was when a person was given the authority to take a DNA sample. It was followed by the medical community's indications, and the overall outcome was also good. For the rest of my life, I feel that the moves on light wheels with helmets and so many other details that we are still learning are still learning. In this sector, there is abundant growth, and much knowledge is behind its laws. The old foundation is being ejected slightly and made clearer, e.g. in this case how these light wheels are, there are EES induction accounts, etc. ... whocountsforauthority and so forth. All right, and how are we gonna do that? It is good to see how a minister will handle this. There is a difference between using a normal bicycle and using a bicycle with electrical help, the way it's all in tire riding, where there are no speed limits. It can be round all kinds of bicycle trails while others are much slower, and there are even children who orbit their little bikes and stuff like that. The question of whether or not something should be considered as an indication that I received after the committee's opinion appeared and the case had been discussed. At least I thought it was a good tip. Therefore, I suggest that the matter be considered between the 2nd and 3rd. to discuss this part a little better. Also, the parts with helmets that are being changed from their existing helmet protocols to the age of 15 years. The original recommendation was to make this now rules up to 15 years of age, but the changes in the majority of the segments are removing the words that point to 15 years of age. So all children have a duty to wear a helmet. In fact, there is no evidence or evidence to support that decision, which was very late in the process and only when the committee was presented with the committee's opinion and adjustments. There had never been any particular discussion about raising the age limit from 15 years up to 18 years. Since this is true of children whose children are covenanted, the discussion has given some advice and, in fact, has given them no opportunity to comment on this. The national groups of bicycle riders had quite a few well - informed and reasoned men who cast a certain doubt on the value of legalizing helmet obligations. It had a view of how this would affect the future, and it sent a report from Norway on how it would discourage the use of bicycles and bicycles as usual. As the committee says, with the permission of a president: ▪... there is no firm research to determine whether the obligation to ride bicycle helmets reduces bicycling or not. These data are simply so that in such a scientific sense it will not be possible to desist fully. The report has no doubt that the duties of helmets that are necessary for them. Everyone agreed to encourage helmet use. But making it a law does not necessarily have to produce results. The only thing that really changes, according to panels in the Committee, is that the police go along with those cyclists who are now between 15 and 18 years old, who would be just observing younger children as they are now, evaluating whether the person is under 18 and stopping the person, taking down his name and information, and so on, telling guardians: Your child wasn't wearing a helmet on a bicycle. That's all this is going to do. It is also suggested, by permission of the President: The Committee will direct it to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs to review the rules in relation to the helmet obligations for all racers. Let go of the ratings, by the way. It's something that didn't show up, at least I saw it. I didn't draw to the committee's opinion, maybe I was just blind in terms of the situation, but I first saw this when I read the final article after a print on the committee. This is a pretty large text, and I'm sure I missed it, but it wasn't exactly discussed with the committee, so I remember, and I'm pretty sure it never came up. Then I wonder, what if this be done, that all cyclists should be committed to a helmet? What happens then? Will the police stop all adults too? And what, inform the guardians? No, there are no guardians there. What should be done? Just stop, take a name down, and live? Or should some punishment begin, such as the seat belts, or what? This leaves some really big questions. The other reason why I would like to see the committee is about this between the 2nd and 3rd. it is important to bring a helmet duty to law up to 18 years of age or to use some form of resources that will result in even greater success in better cooperation with members of this law. Whether it is possible to work better for younger ones. It has now been suggested in the discussion to bring the obligation up to 16 years of age so that it would reach all elementary school. I don't know, it might be an idea. At the same time, the law should not need to be used by the police as some kind of fear aid for children to use helmets, not at all. If something is, it is not incredibly helpful to the police that it is some kind of punishment for parental training. I think it's a pretty bad excuse because the police are supposed to be there to help their children, absolutely, rather than to be the bad guy who could stop them and complain to Mom and Dad that they don't wear a helmet. So I strongly direct the committee to consider this better, to take a better discussion on this subject, and to call out for a review of the people to whom this change is involved. Let us keep up our youth councils only and show by our actions that we follow the United Nations Children's Covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u116	A respectable president. At the end of this discussion, I would like to address some aspects of the traffic law. There is some harm in the fact that the Central Party expert on these topics, little. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason is away now. He's 60 today, and I congratulate him on his day. He is forgiven for not being in the hall right now. Factors that I would like to come on are, first of all, a matter that has been discussed today, which is the so - called helmet duty. I just want to leave it here. Of course, it's normal for your helmet to be absolute and to cover all ages. Just as we require that a seat belt be used, whether the road is short or long, no matter what speed it is meant along the way and along the streets, the situation is so personal that the same evidence applies to the helmet and the seat belts in which vehicles drive. Another thing I'd like to mention and keep in mind is something that has come into the majority of homes I sign and turn to damaged cars. There seems to have been a significant misbehaviour in the system without a specific registration, so even the situation is that the safety of a car is not active in the way it is expected that nothing about the recovery of an object after damage has been done. The committee will handle this as follows, with the permission of the president: The Commission is directed to the Ministry to take Regulation No. 822/2004 for review, and for any needed changes and additional monitoring so that this problem can be handled firmly. It refers to the problems that are mainly sold at auctions, some with shorter baptisms, and then sold on a public market without anyone buying a chance to find out that a damaged car is involved. The third thing I would like to introduce is objective improvement. I'm glad it stays the same from the previous law. It was a measure of burdensome ideas that came to the fore to provide rental rents for which rent was considered difficult to collect. So I believe that's a good conclusion. The last thing I'd like to come on is a point facing the 50th grade. Once this was the case with cannabis, it was consistent with whether canabis was detectable in blood or urine. A change in blood tests is now being made; these will be considered as proof that a driver has driven a vehicle under the influence of cannabis. I think that's where we should have stuck to the fact that the urine tests were maintained. That has made no difference in my opinion. A driver who drives drunk to his home but who gets home safely is, of course, taken from the police at home if he is caught there. If you get a camera for speeding, you get a ticket, although at the end of the road, you return home unscathed. The same line of reasoning can be said that the individual measuring cannabis in urine was ready at some point to take the risk of driving without fully removing the effects from the system. It can lead to that. These are the four points I wanted to mention during this discussion. I heard from a former speaker that the matter was going on between discussions, but I might have misheard, but then maybe you could take one conversation about it inside the committee. Other than that, I suggest that the issue be closed and settled on the current scale by this majority list, and there will be considerable improvements in national traffic laws and traffic security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u117	The president is not quite clear whether or not a direct request has been made for a committee, but it will be investigated. At the same time, the president would like to join in with the day's birthday party, please. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, snot. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u118	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a new proposal for the resolution of a legalized agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. The committee has discussed the matter and received its meeting at the highest level. Minister Ásmundur Daðason Daledon with the Department of Social Affairs. We also met with a member of the Department of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, Iceland's Institute of Development, Psychiatry, UNICEF, and the office of children's emissaries. Officials formally received from Iceland's Union of Colleges, Blind Society, Psychics, National Institutes of Development, Iceland's Human Rights Office of Human Rights, Nationalist Protection, Percontinental Protection, Research Centre for Disability at Iceland's University, The Union of Icelandic Company, Tabu, Feminian Disability Forces, the office of Children's Directorates and Service and Knowledge Center for Blind, Blind and Disturbance of Health. The Parliament's decree suggests that the government will be committed to preparing a legalized agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people and complete the adjustment of Icelandic law. The contract was validated for Iceland on September 23, 2016, as per Congress resolution No. 61/145. The Commission reviewed a great deal of agreements on the importance of legalizing the contract. The legalization of the agreement would strengthen the position of the disabled and the responsibility of the State in its implementation would be clarified further. It was noted that in validation of the contract, the Icelandic government committed itself to ensuring the rights of the contract. On the other hand, the validation of the contract does not guarantee that disabled persons can carry rights under the legal contract. Then, in a paper with the synonym, it shows that the contract does not have a direct right effect in this country until it has been legally established. The Commission agrees with these views, but it points to the commitment of the Treaty to interpret Icelandic law in accordance with the terms of the contract. Then, since the validation of the contract, the Icelandic state has been committed to adapting national legislation to the terms of the agreement. Great steps have been taken to improve the rights of disabled persons, e.g. ................... 38/2018, and adapting law on local community services, No. 40/1191, to the terms of the contract by law No. 37/2018. In spite of this, the lack of complete adaptation, consultation with an organization on the issues of disabled persons, and a clearer responsibility for the failure of Icelandic law to violate the arrangement. Then it was noted in the Committee that criticism of the translation of the Convention into Icelandic and that the translations for which the agreement was translated were not entirely in accordance with the objective of the agreement. To respond to this criticism and obtain information about work on the translation of the contract, the Committee met. with the highest. Minister of Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason. It was stated that work was being done in the translation of the agreement and that there was good reason to complete that work before the contract would be legalized. Then representatives of the Justice Department pointed out that there is a status report to the United Nations Committee on measures designed to cover the commitments of the Icelandic state under the contract and the progress that have been made, in accordance with Article 35. The deal. At the end of this work, the United Nations Committee will submit a report on its activities to the General Assembly of the United Nations and the Economic and Social Council and can offer suggestions and general recommendations based on a survey of reports and information from Member States, as specified in Article 39. The deal. It was concluded that it was desirable to complete the work of the state report and to wait for a United Nations report to make it clear on a legal basis which measures would be desirable for the Icelandic state to fulfill its commitments according to the contract. The Commission agrees with this view and does not consider it wise to validate the contract until it is established, whether it will be in the form of a new translation or an improvement of the existing translations as well as the results of the above reports. Therefore, the Commission suggests that the delay granted to the government under the Senate arrangement will be extended to allow the needy to prepare properly for the necessary work mentioned above. It also came to the view that the contract would be legalized before the Icelandic state had fully fulfilled its commitments according to it, it might reduce the impact of the legalization. In part, the committee agrees with that view, but it points out that the Icelandic government is already working far in the process of adapting the Icelandic law to the terms of the agreement. The Parliament's arrangement also recommends that governments be appointed to complete this adjustment. This requires that the Ministry prioritizes in the interest of winning bills that measure for the rights to which the contract is intended. The policy, then, is that the contract will be established when the Icelandic government has fulfilled its obligations according to the contract. Does the committee believe that by extending the amount of time recommended by the proposal to meet the above points of view, the legalization of the agreement will not diminish its translation. Rather, ensures the legalisation of the contract that harmony will be maintained with future legislation. According to this, it is normal for the Commission to consider on the subject of the above state's report that on the legalisation of the agreement will be taken into consideration by the United Nations Committee. So the Commission proposes the adjustment to the government's grant of a period of time to legalize the contract and suggest that the contract be legalized and adjustment of the Icelandic law that it will be completed on December 13, 2020. The committee also discussed the viewpoint of whether it was necessary to determine the costs of the Senate arrangement. The committee's rights to the terms of the contract involve much of the objective. There are measures to achieve this objective. The Commission noted that with a plagion proposal for policy and implementation in disabled people's affairs prior to 2017•2021, No. 16/146, concluded the General Assembly that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People would be introduced into all legal procedures and actions. This arrangement contains the cost analysis of various factors that are necessary for the Icelandic state to carry out its duties according to the contract. At that time, the recruitment measures were assigned to identify the costs of non-characteristic factors in the synonym. The Commission feels that the same policy will be continued and the cost analysis of needed legal adjustments will be carried out along with work on the relevant legal standards. Co-administration of a legalisation bill leads to a further cost analysis, especially with respect to the changes in the legal environment in the meantime. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: Instead of the words ▪13. December 13, 2018, of the second paragraph, will arrive on December 13, 2020. Hv. S. The Brjánsson Bránnson's chief official was absent from the case, but literature has been regarded as a 4th - mgr source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen, Director of Director of S. Brjánsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándur, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Vilmiramur Árnason. A respectable president. In this fine matter, I have considered the main points of the Committee on Health Services. It is both a privilege and a pleasure to give a witness. It's an honor for the Council, but the most important interests and interests are those who depend on those who live in Iceland's disability. With this synonym, which is expected and hoped to be accepted, the Convention will provide a broad framework for the committee and all groups of participants, the contract will be legally established and the proper places of the disabled will finally be faithful to other members of the community. I congratulate all of us, provided that this proposal is established in the High Council and that these words I say I will speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u119	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the speaker. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is an international contract that includes the duties of Member States to ensure the rights of disabled people, as one report shows. On December 13, 2006, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on the rights of disabled people and is an international agreement that includes the duties of Member States to ensure human rights. It is true, as shown in a report, that disabled people are the largest minority group in the world and are estimated to have some 650,800 million people with some sort of disability. In contrast, when people are working on the rights of disabled people, I agree that it is very important to keep them in mind. I take heart to say that the most important message of the agreement is that disabled persons have the full right to all approved human rights as well as that they should have the privilege of enjoying their own lives and the freedom of the individual to the same extent. To that end, special emphasis is given on the opportunity of disabled persons to take part in all areas of life and community and spears directly to customs and customs, a standard image, prejudice, harmful actions, isolation, and outcasts associated with disabled people. Thus, the contract is a good tool for the full record of human rights, but it is not enough to write a word, it must guarantee all disabled people all the rights recommended in the contract. The fullness of the contract, you see, is not enough. The Icelandic government signed the contract without notice on March 30, 2007, along with a selective annex to it. The signing was the obligation of the Icelandic government to fulfill the contract, but the signing includes this declaration of will. On September 20, 2016, a contract was validated for Iceland, in line with U.S.A.'s resolution, No. 61/145, which was an important step. But that's not enough. Because although the government obligates people to ensure disabled persons the rights for which the contract stands, the commitment is only under national rights. Therefore, it is important here to establish the contract where national rights contract will not be allowed unless the authority, the authority, is here, will take special action, or in other words, that we will grant the legal value to the contract. This is important, since the contract is primarily an equal agreement that guarantees disabled persons a position with others. It is good that it is said that it is a certain responsibility for the State to see to it that matters pertaining to the seminary will be carried out. That's one of the most important things we're going to discuss today. At the end, I would like to give special attention to the following: At the Department of Health Committee on Policy and Management of Distinguished People's Opposing Plans, by permission of the President, the following was presented: THE reports given to the commission pointed out that the United Nations is a highly unsatisfactory translation of the rights of disabled people in the Icelandic language. The translation contains serious errors that can even cause misunderstandings and confusion. The Committee urges the Ministry to carefully review the significance of the treaty, taking into account the comments received by the committee and making adjustments where appropriate. I agree with these words, as I am one of the transporters, by permission of a president: ▪ Finally, the decision to work on the terms of the contract and adaptation of Icelandic legislation to the treaties in a very good and effective way with the disabled, their interest groups, their rural areas, and the informed community. I certainly hope this case has a success here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u120	Mr. President. Here, the Council is about to take a huge step, which involves us confirming the willingness of the United Nations to negotiate the rights of disabled people. With this legal condition, Iceland will be one of the first countries in the world to legalize the contract and it will glorify the rights of disabled people and disability in Iceland. The aim of the contract is to promote, defend and ensure full human rights and fundamental freedoms for all disabled people as well as to promote and work in respect for their natural dignity. The most important message of the agreement is that disabled persons should be fully justified in all approved human rights as much as others, enjoying their own life and the freedom of the individual to the same degree. So the agreement is a very powerful tool for fighting the human rights of disabled persons. International treaties must be legalized in a Icelandic legal way if they are to have a direct right effect here on the country. Hence, it is important to discern the difference between the legalization of a international agreement and its validation. According to the Icelandic court order, the contract could not be applied directly to Icelandic courts as if it could be done by general laws unless the contract was legalized. Stand by the International Convention, which has only been validated, as this has been done, under the Icelandic law, the terms of the agreement are replaced. Of course, European Conventiones have a full impact on legal interpretation. Mr. President. A recent Supreme Court, since the fall, specifically noted that Iceland had merely validated the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people but could not legalize them on the basis of the agreement. That is why it has a lot of material significance, the step we are taking, to validate the contract. I point out that validation is simply not enough. The first Senate case I submitted to the General Assembly after my reinstatement was that of presenting this case along with a number of members of the United Nations that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People should be legalized. I do not take to heart the fact that the last assembly case I made before I left Congress in 2009, and it was approved at the General Assembly that the United Nations Children's Convention was due to be legalized. Iceland was also one of the first countries in the world to legalize the children's covenant. We have, in fact, established only three major international treaties, which are the United Nations Children's Convention, the European Human Rights Convention and the EEA Convention. And now, Mr. President, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People will be placed on that same ledge. At the end, I want to thank you so much for what I have to say. paritaprevir Brjánsson, who is the head of the Committee for Health. I also want to thank the welfare committee for their good work and the transnational support involved in this matter. Finally, I stress that when it comes to legalizing the agreement and adaptation of Icelandic legislation that the contract will be done in good and effective consultations with disabled persons, their interest groups, rural society and the educational community. Of course, many things are not accomplished, but it is important that this matter be continued in cooperation. Again: Here is a historic step to set Iceland in a unique place in the world by being one of the first members of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u121	A respectable president. This is a happy day for many reasons, and for us disabled people, it is an irreparable day of joy. I say at last, at last. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson here told me that before me, we had actually sailed through life with our disabled people just on the validation of the contract on the rights of disabled people. We finally see the end of legalizing it. Why have we drawn our feet to the terms of the contract? Yes, because it costs a little. It's going to be hard to deny a possible access to a bucket. It will be hard always to put aside and not admit that we have the right to participate in the community as possible, making society around us so that we can live in the best of our physical, spiritual, and at least. So now, in the validation of the covenant, it is absolutely unbelievable. Still, I'd like to correct a good problem. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, who says that we are pioneers in the legalization of the covenant. There are only two nations in Europe who do not have the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distant People. I was sorry when I attended a school in Galway on the western coast of Ireland three years ago, where every year a certain feature of the contract, a series of articles on the rights of disabled people, was being taught that the nation who always offers this annual school program for the contract, was not legalized, as was the case with Iceland. Really, it was worth your attention. I just think, if I'm going to say right now, we've come before the one who's natural. So I believe that now that this has become reality, the disabled in Iceland will enjoy it and experience how it is to live in a society that just can't by any living way, except by breaking law, discrimination against people because of disability. So again and again, congratulations. It is beautiful to see such cross - lattice arms around one another in such a legal language as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. So I look forward to being on the green button when we get to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u122	A respectable president. Finally, the happy day has come for us to discuss a synod of a legalized agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. This has long been fought for by those of us who have lived in a world of disability. But this is just the beginning. It's the first day, it's called an aluminium test. We must realize that we should look forward to a special day, i.e. On December 13, 2020, all the laws and regulations needed to be changed must be established. This is of utmost importance because we know that courts have been judging that disabled people's rights, obstacles to wheelchair members requiring reform, have been rejected by courts on the grounds that this agreement has not been legally established. There are many of these issues that have stopped, and many obstacles are in place because we have not legally validated the agreement. Therefore I say, "This is a day of joy, and it is good to have this come." But this is just the first leg. Then we need to see to it that all laws are changed and must be done so that we do not have to postpone the operation on December 13, 2020. Then we can tell everyone who is disabled: Congratulations - when the contract is finally fully valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u123	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of law due to the rights of children as partners. A great deal of agreement is made available to the committee some number of visitors and reviews, as indicated in the committee's opinion. The bill suggests changes in various laws to ensure that children who lose a parent because of illness or death are assured of support and advice and their right to contact the dead parent's close contacts or others close to them. At the Committee's Review, the Habitat gave statistics to a number of children who lose a parent each year. According to the record, between 2009 and 2018, about 100 children lost their parents each year. The visitors who visited the committee's meeting for the matter all agreed that it was important to nurture these children and make sure that they can obtain appropriate help in handling such a shock. While health - care professionals in general tried to deal with such situations, their duties in such matters would not be sufficiently clear. The bill suggests that a health - care professional should be legally obliged to take the necessary steps to help a child. It was stated that there was a willingness within the medical centre of the capital area to provide the necessary assistance and, in collaboration with local and relevant educational services and that the development centre of the Icelandic Health Center would have a wealth of expertise that would be useful in implementing a procedure to ensure good material implementation of the bill's regulations. Accounters are all provided with the objective of the bill, i.e. to ensure the child's rights by taking initiative at appropriate parties involved in the affairs and well - being of children. The committee provided some important tips for those who will take part in the initiative arrangement. The Generous Community pointed to the importance of instruction in the case of disabled children and in good cooperation with professionals within the institutions. It might be noted that a mother's advocate is holding the information that a child needs, but it is often necessary to call on professionals who can use unconventional means of communication. Mental - health care showed the importance of health care professionals when patients enter a medical facility for children and that the responsibilities of a healthcare professional are clearer in such cases. The Icelandic Community Association and Children's Health Organization strongly stressed the need for communication between parties to be clear so that each one could do his own job and that support would come from where it was best for the child at his own time. Then it was noted that it was important to ensure early intervention to ensure the child's well - being. To ensure a child's right to information, support and relationships with his or her family, it is important to have initiatives in the community service. Social services were pointed out to have a comprehensive knowledge of potential resources and the help available. However, there was a lack of effective social resources to assist children if it was not specifically consulted. There are certain sources of information that would better be given to informing members of the community or the advice of the local community and that they would become one link in cooperation with children who have lost a parent. The committee claims that the bill is intended to place large initiative responsibilities on the party to ensure the right of children who have lost a parent and ensure a permanent relationship between a child and a missing parent's family. It is important that the procedure is in accordance with the aim of the law change, but further implementation will be in the hands of those most familiar and subject to the initiative. It must be ensured that persons with the best knowledge have close cooperation between them and with appropriate professionals. Many work under such mechanisms, as most schools do, but the squares have to coordinate such assistance with the desired results. The Commission suggests that changes are made more mandatory and suggests that health institutions will be assigned to the sectoral social committees, which have a good knowledge of the resources available. Other tips presented to the Committee apply to children's issues in a broad context, and the Committee considers them to be at the Children's Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. With reference to the above, the Committee suggests that 2 mg is 1st. 1st par. The bill will be clearly stated that patients with psychiatric disorders, addictions, or physical illness should be evaluated for a child's prematurity. Healthcare professionals involved in children or pregnant women have a child protection committee report on the basis of child protection law, No. 80/2002. The decision is further aimed at ensuring that a healthcare professional involved in caring for patients with severe medical conditions ensures that a child's child's child's rights and status are educated because of the illness. It suggests a simple variation in word, so that there is no doubt that this is the duty of a healthcare professional. Notes were then made at the end of the 4 mg. Section 5. the bill that a child over the age of 15 can make for himself a need for companionship. A review of the office of the children's emissary pointed out that this material did not include 15 years of age. The fundamental principle of the right of children to participate would be that children have the right to express themselves in all matters relating to them and should take their thoughts into account in terms of age and maturity. So the committee suggests a change that a child can take the initiative of a businessman to see if any of the survivors of a parent will arrive at any age. The committee also stresses the support of rural social services to children whose parent loses will be strengthened by the changes proposed in the bill. Based on the fact that community services are limited in initiatives when a child loses a parent, the committee suggests that a community service partner has limited initiative. Then it was also pointed out that the duties of the health care provider to cooperate with the child's school might be difficult to carry out. In order to respond to this comment, the committee suggests that health - care providers become the responsibility of reporting community services in which a child is in a home for the death of a parent. Having the initiative to cooperate with your child's school would have to be followed by community service. The committee suggests the adjustment of the material. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Vilhjálmur Árnason and the Guðjón of Brjánsson were absent from the case, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion and is thought to be written by Director Halldóra Mogensen, Chairman Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðrunsson Guðmundur Kristinsson and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u124	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee's bill to legalise the change in various laws to the implementation of the EU's Directive for passengers. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by guests. There were no reviews. The bill includes changes in the laws needed for the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council's Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council for passengers. The target of the directive is that passengers can take full advantage of their right to fair and righteous work conditions in groups of reports and communications between ships and rights for communication and consultation. It is a legal act for passengers who are expected to have no influence on government administration or financial expenses. The Commission suggests a number of technical changes, primarily in harmony with wording and headlines in the laws to which the bill is involved. The changes made by the Committee do not have a material impact on the bill. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made in the Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen chairman, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólaf Þór Gunnarsson, Jónsson Inónsson, Sigurður Jónsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u125	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize union and employment laws, the seat of Socialism. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors to their home. There were reviews from ASI and BSRB. The bill suggests that the seat of socialization can be elsewhere than in the country's capital. Commenting on the matter, the view was found that for those who represent social law, the court may be outside the capital area. The bill would go some distance away, where the court's home might be with the change of place anywhere on the land. It would have to have a permanent place and a better chance of being in the capital area. Then there would be cases that would often bring the importance of being able to preach to the council with shame in view. Most people who represent the courts would have a residence in the capital area, and this could lead to unnecessary treatment if the court was located outside it. It was also noted that the judges sitting in the court did not have a full - time job and that it should be taken into account. However, it was held that the court served the whole country and should, as such, be anywhere in the country. The committee believes that the practical principle suggests that social activity will be at or near the country's head. However, such limitation may be a problem. Based on the fact that the capital area is in the capital area, the committee is thought to consist of the rural communities, which are considered to be three terms for the election, i.e. Republic of Reykjavík, north and south, and southwest. But later, it has been noted that the limit of the capital area may be larger, i.e. is a work area consisting of the three terms, Southnes, the southernmost part of Western and the western part of Southland as well. This has often been the case between the White River and the White Year. i.e. area marked by the White River in the Citizenship and the White River in Aarnes County and AIDS. The Commission believes that despite the expulsion of social activity in the country's capital, there may be reasons to believe that the court could be anywhere in the country, it would have to be viewed as a means of practicality, which may include: explains a report that should be viewed, that ensures that the court will remain in or near Reykjavík. The committee considers this practical approach to be clear and therefore no reason to define in the law exactly where the court should be located. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðjón S.'s Brjánsson are signed in advance. Under countless other forms of literature. Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen, Director of Chairman Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Director of History, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóttir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u126	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. This is a matter that deals with institutions on the subject of social and child-relation. The committee has discussed the matter and has given visitors and reviews, as shown in the committee's opinion. The bill is a part of material adjustment of legal requirements because of laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, including adjustment to law under the topic of social and child - care ministers of the above laws. The bill does not suggest changes to the service of the partner organisations. In the laws proposed to change with the bill it is generally assumed that institutions are only allowed to produce personal information about an individual's approval. The bill suggests that the separation of consent should be carried out, and instead the subject should confirm that he has been informed of the proposed collection of information. In this regard, the commission points out that the 8th count is Article 3. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information says that consent in the sense of the law is an unscrupulous, specific, enlightened, and unambiguous declaration of the written agreement, with a declaration or unequivocal confirmation, the processing of personal information about him. That is the 2nd chapter of 1st. 1 1. The law that the development of sensitive personal information is permitted when the process is necessary for the responsible employee or the registered person to live up to his commitment and to use certain rights under law and social security laws and on the basis of laws that require appropriate and specific measures to protect the basic rights and interests of the registry. The Commission reviewed the need for the change proposed in the bill; however, approval could not be considered an appropriate basis for the implementation of personal information on the part of the relevant institutions. In this regard it was noted that when a person is in the position to accept, it is essential that he or she be granted legal rights, it is not acceptable to accept. Therefore, it would be necessary to request information on the basis of law, not on the individual's consent. However, the committee points out that by making it a prerequisite for the processing of personal information that it has been confirmed to the person that he has been informed about the collection of information goes beyond the personal protection laws and the implementation of personal information. In this regard the Committee shows that the bill does not expect in some cases to be excluded from the information programme in accordance with the protection and processing of the identity and regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/6779 from 27 April 2016 for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the free sharing of such information and breakdown of Directive 95/46/EC. The Commission therefore suggests a change in the requirement that these institutions should inform individuals about the proposed information collections in accordance with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. In the first paragraph of paragraph 6, par. The bill says that the agent of a debtor should collect the information he considers necessary, including from debt, public and private sources, such as income, expenses, possessions, debts, responsibilities, cost of living as well as the conduct of the individual. The same term use is found in paragraphs 9 and 11. The bill. The Committee's study made comments on the conceptal use to refer to the subject's ◯ production, pointing out that the concept of using it may be unclear. The concept is expressed in the law on individual payment adjustments, No. 101/2010, specifically 2 mgr. Section 5. on the subject of the inquisitor's debt. The term refers primarily to the reasons that can prevent payment from being permitted according to Article 6. The law. The committee points out that the authority of a credit agent for information is limited to the information he thinks is necessary. Then there is the law on personal protection and the processing of the personal information of the above regulations. It states that it should be taken into account that personal information is sufficient, appropriate, and not beyond what is necessary in relation to the purpose of the process. Thus, the committee considers the references found in the law on individual payment to the conduct of the individual to be sufficiently clear, making a clear conclusion from their other guidelines for filling the term. In another respect, the committee feels that a credit agent is only allowed to gather the information needed to reach a decision in each case. The Commission does not consider it to be a reason to deviate from this term use; however, it is in accordance with the other laws of the law, defined in an adequate way the information that a credit agent is allowed to obtain at this time and ensures that the applicant is informed about the processing of the information. It was noted that the local Social Affairs Committees needed information to keep away from more sources than listed in Article 12. The bill. Disturbing the welfare field of Reykjavíkurburg, including ... hadto call for information from a prison facility, the loan fund of Icelandic students, the medical funds of unions and Iceland's National Congress. The committee suggests a change in the identity of what data will be obtained, but it will not be a complete list of the institutions to which to acquire it. The Commission presented the view that the state's identification and counseling centres for the implementation of personal information might be too extensive. However, it was noted that the information sharing and the information gathering were necessary for the Agency to perform a legitimate service. The Commission believes that clear legal rights are an adequate basis for the Agency's implementation and in accordance with the source of 2,◯4. equals 1.mg. 1 1. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that there is reason to make a physical change in the Agency's resources for the processing of personal information. However, in view of the Commission's presentation, the directive is rather vague and suggests a change designed to correct their inexplicability. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Hv. Senators Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, and Árnason Arnam was away from the hearing. Under countless printed page. Councilmen of Halldóra Mogensen, Officer Ingi In Jónsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Director of History, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón of S. Brjánsson and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u127	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes. It's about the personal protection and processing of personal information, in this case in the field of institutions that hear larger amounts under the Ministry of Health. The bill includes a physical adjustment of health insurance law that laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018. The bill does not involve changes in the services intended for the health insurance agency; rather, it allows the bill for the necessary changes in terms of law in order to ensure the processing of personal information on the basis of the legal requirement of personal protection and the processing of personal information. Basically, the change means that a health insurance agency does not need to agree for the planned progress of personal information. Rather, it supports the legal process. The Committee reviewed the view that decommissioning of the consent condition would not fully guarantee that a person would be provided with information on the proposed information collection of the health insurance organisation. The Agency's authority to collect information from the tax authorities is entitled to the confidentiality of the authorities according to the 117th requirement. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, as far as the tax authorities could not confirm that there is a source for the processing of personal information unless they were approved by the relevant authorities prior to the process. The committee does not agree with this view. Two. Thirty-four. the health insurance bill states that the health insurance agency is authorized to obtain the necessary information about the applicant's written consent. The bill suggests the removal of consents. With that change, information would be provided on the basis of law, not of the individual's consent. Therefore, the Committee considers that there can be no doubt whether there is a source for the processing of personal information in the event of a renewal application at Article 34. Act on health insurance. In this regard, the commission points out that the 8th count is Article 3. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information says that consent in the sense of the law is an unscrupulous, enlightened and unambiguous declaration of the written declaration that he agrees with a declaration or irrefutable confirmation of personal information about himself. That is the 2nd chapter of 1st. 1 1. The Act that the development of sensitive personal information is permitted when processing is necessary for the responsible or the registered employee to meet their commitments and to use certain rights under the Labour Code and Social Security legislation and to request on the basis of the legislation on the appropriate and specific measures to protect the basic rights and interests of the registered. The Commission reviewed that the change proposed in the bill was necessary, and approval could not be considered an appropriate basis for the implementation of personal information on the part of the health insurance agency. In this regard it was noted that when a person is in the position to accept, it is essential that he or she be granted legal rights, it is not acceptable to accept. Therefore, it would be necessary to request information on the basis of law, not on the individual's consent. In view of this, the Commission believes that the removal of consent conditions is in accordance with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. Personal protection makes a comment in its review that according to the bill, the health insurance agency should inform its members of the proposed information collection as much as possible. Two. 17th par. the Act on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information strategies establish that the registry has the right to inform about the processing of personal information with the exception presented in Article 3. 17th par. The law, and they're more specific at 5 mg. 14th par. The Council and Council Regulation (EU) 2016/6779 of 27 April 2016 for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the free sharing of such information, and the breakdown of Directive 95/46/EC. Based on Peritoneal Protection, a reference should be made to inform the individual health insurance organization as much as possible to provide a broader authority for the limitation of Community information rights as the result of the Regulation. The Commission agrees with this view. The assessment of the health insurance agency must be based on the conditions allowing such restrictions under the Regulation. Sets up the committee to make that change in B-jords 1st par. the bill to oblige the health insurance agency to inform the planned improvement of personal information will be in accordance with the Directive 2 mg. 17th par. law, identity protection and the processing of personal information. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the matter will be agreed with the adjustment proposed here. Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnad, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason were away from the hearing. Under the writings of Halldóra Mogensen, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, executive guide, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-31-114.u128	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee study of the formation of immigrants. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought guests and has received a number of reviews that I refer to in the Senate document. The Constitution proposal suggests the establishment of a central information agency where immigrants can collect all information on services, rights and duties. It is assumed that Member States and rural partnerships will be contacted by a counseling agency, where immigrants can take in across rural areas. The reviews given to the committee showed a keen interest in the subject of the proposal and a general agreement on the importance of the project. A few commentators expressed interest in taking the job and that it might be suitable for the activities involved. Then there were ideas of how to set up a immigrant service center. It was pointed out that the projects given to immigrants under the synonym were somehow overlapd with the activities of the Multihuman Institutes of Isafjörður, and it would be closer to promoting the activities of the Multicultural site than to sharing the demands otherwise. In this regard, it was noted that it might be more convenient to give the assignment to the press to be given to an immigrant consulting room. On the other hand, the view was that a large number of immigrants lived outside the multicreature region of the West. In view of the greater part, all of the above - mentioned views are subject to serious issues and illustrate the understanding of the problems immigrants face when they seek services in the Icelandic community. In view of the greater part, it is absolutely necessary to work on the aim of the proposal to establish a single-state service, or in English, Mr. President, ◯one-stop-shop, to promote the services and counselling of immigrants. The greater part of the report shows that there will be special attention to the development of branch facilities in the country than in the capital area, as well as the number of foreign citizens who often work outside the community in busy rural areas, including the number of foreign citizens. in building projects and tourism. As suggested by the proposal, there is a suggestion that there will be a special attention to the work of a multicultural site when a consulting agency is established and that the agency can be a division within a multicultural facility. The majority consider this project to be of great importance and suggest changes in the text of the proposal. The majority feels that the Department of Social Affairs will be entrusted with the implementation of the project, which may, according to case reports, consult with the Ministry of Justice or its Substitutions. This will highlight the need for a wide range of communication solutions, allowing users to search for it wherever they are in the country. A greater proportion suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment, and the proposal puts it this way: The General concluded to hide a social and child - care minister to work out a strategy for a consulting agency for immigrants who will become a cooperating site between institutions of state and rural society. The role of a consulting agency must provide available counselling, guidance and information for immigrants on the necessary services, their rights, and their duties. The plan will be carried out in cooperation with import agencies, government agencies, communities, partners and labour market members. The secretary introduces the General Plan to the project no later than January 1, 2020 Hv. S. The Brjánsson J.sson's about to sign this opinion in advance. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature was regarded as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. In addition, under countless publications. Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen, Chairman of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðjón of History, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Brjánsson, former notice, Ingi Irnsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
