ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u1	A respectable president. By permission of the President: Building policy lifts land, if you take it carefully. She is like the Holy Ghost. nobody's seen her. Thus wrote a good writer and a well - versed candidate named Þormóður Jónsson. Frustrations Based - and then what? In the United States, there has long been an automatic community policy that includes the use of taxes in one place for building up for grace and mercy, a ballast, tax appeals, or courageous ministers who have moved public jobs from the capital area. Let us not forget that the structure of the government in the capital area is considered to be self - righteous and reasonable, while in other places, alabasters. When do we focus on the situation so that the serious urban disorders that have taken place far and wide in the country will be stopped and the whole country will remain inhabited? Garth Valley, Trinity, Aarneshreppur, Surney, Gímur, Oreney, Oxfjordur, Roakfar, Bakkafjordur, Curfjordur, Breurdal Shrepur and Trench Trench. Which area, village, town, or settlement will go to the list next? Disregarded -- and then what? In some areas, the task is to finish or complete. The areas that form distant corners around the capital area are even areas that we serve only to a small extent by government support. Meanwhile, rural society is supposed to solve the problem that everyone knows does not have T-shirts, capitals, or solutions to the best possible response. Do you see people chasing their taxes, culture, and services - and where taxes are kept? The subject will not be cleared in a quick way or will be able to use general resources to solve this specific project. However, it is fundamental that the inhabitants of this country all live in an equal setting of public and public service, regardless of their residence. So I ask: " What are the foundations of fractures - and then what? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u2	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke yesterday of the travel cost of members of the council. In his talk, he also spoke about the cost of traveling abroad. I just have to cancel the charges immediately, whether it was meant to any senator or solely to a minister, that I've never written a cent on a mile to the airport, never let the council pay for a car, never let the Senate pay for anything when I'm overseas, except when hotel costs are completely out of control. [[Take it up in, Mr. Secretary.]] - He says Minister. There is something else that I would like to talk about, and that is about the work of the council. We take an oath to the Constitution, and it is up to us to tell the truth. We are required to report illness like everyone else and give us proof of illness. I wonder: Is there any way we can register for someone who is ill? Can these laws be overlooked? I want everything on the table, and we're supposed to be honest about our jobs and to be truthful and right. Despite my illness, I have tried to do what I can at a council, I have tried to be honest in my work. I think we should demand that people be honest, that we be role models. We're supposed to do 100% of the law. We're about to go to the Constitution. We swear to her, and it's our duty to tell the truth. Whether we are sick or otherwise, we should be careful to be exemplary and be careful that we are being watched out there. If we are violating a constitution or law that says much, it is difficult to judge others for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u3	A respectable president. In celebration of the speech of the roost. Sæland I'd like to agree with what it showed about important and interesting cooperation. Hv. A senator discussed our knowledge and abilities in foreign languages. I admit that when first sought to sit down on this advice, despite decades'experience in business with Dani in fishing and fishing sales, and with various parties around the world, I did not compromise. I have an excellent knowledge of languages, but first I did not. Then I gave in and participated in this work, even though dancing is not my second language and perhaps not my third. The committee is giving us a lot of help from the great staff at the council, and I've been very much involved in this cooperation. I have to say, at the moment, that it has paid me very much. This is a different teamwork, and I'm sure it's anything but the Senate. This is based much more on cohesion and friendship, which is also the basis for cooperation. I have made a synonym proposal for the Vestnoric Council, which was well prepared here at home. It was produced in English, but then translated into Danish, and it was free of disaster. I've gained a deeper knowledge of this cooperation, and I think that the cooperation it puts together is important for all of us who are involved in it. It has a personal advantage, and then an amazing friendship with good neighbors succeeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u4	A respectable president. Just a little bit of that. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson said. I directed my words to the minister of the day, to make it absolutely clear. Stability has been viewed as a virtue in Icelandic politics for long periods of time and natural because opposition is chaos and obviously does not want chaos. However, the dose from stability is resolution. I've been through some chaos lately. The same guests in the same business come year after year describing the same problems, even decades old problems, health issues, rural politics, aging and disability, education, health. All changes happen slowly and too late for many. We must look only to our present government cooperation, and especially to those that have been in control more and less at all. We live in their systems. The current state of fishing, socialisation, transportation, education, economics is their responsibility, and especially the problems that have afflicted the nation for years. It is embarrassing for all, especially for those who constantly point to their problems. Yesterday, for example. I discussed the problems the media have been asking about for many years, and it took me a year to get the answers. Yesterday I also pointed to a problem that has taken me more than a year to answer, and nothing is happening yet. Change is an essential part of stability, for without it we experienced only chaos. In a changing world, we will have no success if we do not work systematically at the problems that have been facing us for decades. In the rapidly changing world of great and fast changes, this becomes more and more important, and in the politics, it is the liberal forces that are thereby the solutions. In the changing and technological world, Piratars have the solution, others copy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u5	Mr. President. Today, 16th October, the European Union of Health Services and the European Union is still without a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance on Nurse House management. In force, there was a frame deal between parties that ran through the last year. Since that time, the one - side bill of Iceland's Medical Insurance has been paid, which included extensive and radical changes to reduce contributions to nursing homes. A medical conference to 2030 shows that Iceland's Medical Insurance is concerned with providing health care based on need analysis, including the population of nursing homes. A discussion between the panels has been under way during the year and while nursing homes are being expelled in less than one month after one month. My sources have established the basis for an agreement, but the contract has to be completed and done in 2019 in a way that balances the management of this important service. Service to the elderly is a basic service that needs to be better cared for. A RIG score must be re-connected to a new deposit so that a nurse's weight is assessed into the currency strain. Finally, I'd like to encourage the highest. A health minister to appoint a Parapolitan committee that reviews the operations and future arrangements on the construction and management of nursing homes. The branch office suggested in the majority of its members on a spring financial program. The policy cannot be through the growth of older people and those who need nursing services and other aging services to believe that year after year reduces the financial resources for service per space.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u6	Mr. President. Recently, the employment committee held an open meeting of untrained fish exported in containers. All fish go public. All of this has an equal opportunity to buy raw materials, and the fish goes to exports, half or full of goods, far more valuable than uncivilized fish in containers. This export would be almost self-limiting. Now it is time to say good - bye to a gray drop, without a cause, for the present arrangement has given way. All small-boat sailors have spoken against this. Arnarnes had to be abandoned to staff the other day because of government unwise plans for fishing seawater. We must work harder. Most matters of the fishing road appear too late, so that political treatment needs to be accelerated. Indiscriminate suggestions, holes in the hole, and pore primes are pushed through hand gels. No balance is given for actual reforms in fishing management. We must ensure normal fishing management where innovation is possible, the fishing permits are temporary, but not permanent, and equal is guaranteed. We have received a review from the United Nations Human Rights Committee on Human Rights because of a fishing regime. We have a moral obligation to deal with them. More serious improvement is needed. The Marine season has to be extended to at least six months, making extensive provision. Qualifications, rules, and currency are too heavy for the miniboating. In short, all fish in market, temporary fishing warrants, not permanent, free hand fishing - we only ensure an equality, a natural competitive position, and a recent development in the article that otherwise ends. Let's change the peddle system, change fish management slowly, but surely, without any stool, the nation for good. This is an important resource matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u7	Mr. President. The rottenness of the present government, with the chairman of the Independence Party, which the minister of finance takes on various manifestations. One of them is an poorly equipped bill on taxation. There have been reviews, including The European Union of Iceland and Waste, that the matter is not well prepared, as well as that there is a lack of consultation with the relevant parties in preparing the case. The speakers have also noted that the figure from which the work was made, i.e. 15K. Once a kilo, it'll be a healthy advantage. There is no way other than to consider this charge to users of the ministry. The village is calculated to mean the estimated tax on which it is placed is 4.93 k. over 4.38 k. if the highest tax is excluded. It is planned that the tax will be done, as stated earlier, in 1 5 K. per kilogram. If that tax is laid on it, it means a 62% increase in prices in the village. It has also been suggested that such superpowers can have an opposite effect on the objective and can act as an unsaturable incentive for emissions. According to this, Mr. President, it is proper to bear in mind the biographer agreements and to give strong evidence that yet another tax can undermine the agreements so desperately needed. Mr. President. Now that my economy is in a defensive phase and my business thinks it's a quick mistake to add spells to people and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u8	Mr. President. The National Market Room held a fine meeting yesterday on the Akureyri Airport and international airport issues. Sadly, I was not able to come north for the rest of the council. However, I kept track of his flow. I suppose you can see a video of him on the Internet and encourage everyone to check it out. Everyone should be aware that this is the largest case in all the north, and opportunities related to creating better conditions for the distribution of foreign tourists across the country are looked very much upon. In this discussion, my motto has been: all of Iceland - all year long. The rise of the air base in Akureyri creates a better premise for more international flights through the airport so that all the pilots will be able to get on the roof rapidly and well when they travel through the airport, whether they are coming or going. As mentioned earlier, not everyone gets under the roof at the same time. Three weeks ago, the balance of travel was presented by a travel minister. A press release by the travel agency showed that the balance sector was a new, extensive, and important control tool that explained where the tourism was concerned with more than 60 measures of sustainable development. Looking at social, economic, and environmental factors. This will be the first time in the world that such a national assignment is being carried out. When the balance of travel was introduced at the end of September, it was also common. stated that the terminal at Akureyri Airport was not large enough to fulfill its role. It was red in the same way as the city airfield in Reykjavík, where it was red and then Keflavour Airport was added. All these infrastructures were on the red of the balance sun. We have big, maligned opportunities in the countryside, and it's long time for us to make use of them. It's going too slow. We need to straighten out the course from 2011 when a large proportion of the budgets for the flying system disappeared when the reserve price was suspended and turned to the services that went on to the Chefjord Airport. There, indeed, was a bad deed that has severely affected the structure of the country's airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u9	Mr. President. A annual meeting of the Western Council lies ahead of us in the Iceland Department of the Westnoric Council. He'll be held in Nuuk, Greenland. The Iceland Department has just visited the Faeroe Islands and Greenland office in Reykjavík, which was very productive and upbuilding. The Arctic Circle is recently replaced, and there came a number of nations together and was involved in discussing the affairs of the north. There were the environment, climate, and life of those living in these areas in focus, and the Westnoric Council was thus an interesting seminar. We know that in changed world life there are opportunities and challenges for these Western nations. We recall the interest of the president of the United States in buying Greenland, as it is proud to intend to do so. We've had a good, remarkable, important partnership over the years and over the years. This is over 30 years of cooperation in the area of the Western nations, Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. No matter how language is spoken by these nations, understanding and harmony have always been enjoyed. It is also very important to protect the languages in the western north. We've been working together on health, education, culture, sports, and rescue issues to name something, and now it's up to the council to cooperate on filmmaking and reimburse if there's also a film in Iceland in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. I feel that this work has gone very well, and we should continue to work on it and to promote it as much as possible. It has brought us much happiness both in good friendship and in the understanding of these nations, and we do not allow the languages to distract us there because we understand one another and can look for ways to do so, as by interpretation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u10	Mr. President. As is customary, there are many discussions about the meetings, and I think it's a good reason to pick up the ball where it is. paritaprevir Sigmundsson's mask left him here earlier. First, I'd like to thank him for calling attention to the reports that have been received through a bill about sentencing taxes. The proper treatment of the matter is about to begin, so it is important that the viewpoint is expressed in this discussion, which views are presented to the committee. Two things must be viewed, as is customary, whether the currency, as it is stated, is designed to deliver its purpose and how it affects the currency. It is normal to review this and to consider what is said on the part of employment, rural society, and other members of the local community. Of course, such donations need to be passed through discussions and filters during the council, such as other suggestions. However, I cannot fail to comment. A senator began his case; he gave in a certain way that the independent and financial ministers in this regard were granted. I'm asking him to go over his career in that relationship, i.e. The approach of the Independence Party to tax returns, taxation and tax changes in recent years. I'm absolutely convinced that what I'm saying is what I'm doing. A senator who sounds more likely to be on the low- tax line will be quite pleased when he examines the conclusions and takes them all together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to briefly discuss the pension system and the use of the public funds there. The payment of a pension fund in this country has long been separate from the tax system and have followed a different course from that in many foreign lands. The idea is that the funds belong to individuals, but the fact is that in many respects the process is the tax system. The fundamental difference, however, is the way the funds work, and it can be asked whether they are wise to place in the hands of a large group of people who play money in the financial system rather than using them for building up. The cost of this card is high and is, for example, an example. Some managers of these funds earn a very high salary, so that the year is undiscovered. The structure of the infrastructure appears to be increased in humans. The ransom is that those who use it pay, but the fact is, there are many more who enjoy it. The development of fiber - optic cables around the country was excellent, but it was actually necessary to collect substantial money from the public and those who are taking in fiber optics to pass it through. And this day's payback is the password all over the place where there's a great deal to be taken care of. It was not for the people 50 to 1,100 years ago when material was low. It is amazing how society was able to establish roads, medical services, telephones, and electricity, building airports, and ports, and much more could be counted. Yet, the key was that these projects helped the people of the country to make things more practical, do more, and do better, etc. In other words, there was increased production, as it were, in good terms. This paid for itself and far better than that. So it is with every good investment in the interior. It brings benefits to the entire nation, and it leads back to the promise that those who use it will pay. Those who use wood are all of us. If those who used the roads there had to pay them, how would the tourism have developed? How would you like to transport fish to export by flight if there were no good roads, and who can make money? Is it the driver or the fish importer or the whole nation? [[The president calls.]] I think I'll probably jump up the ideas on the pension system and use them much more money to build up the interiors of the country, because that's how we can pay for our old age levels in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of two recent reports that have happened to our eyes. First of all, Eurostat reports that the people of Iceland are different about the fact that families and caregivers of patients, the sick, the disabled, and the brain are more involved in the care of these people than are required by other nations. About 9% of adults in the country care for this type of chronically ill, disabled, or elderly loved ones, which ratios up to 3% elsewhere in the North countries. The other report I'd like to mention is Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson reporting on the growth of microenergy pensioners in this country, while Sir Kolbeinn presented the report to the General and Education Committee yesterday. Much has been discussed about the growth of disability in a group of young men in recent years, which is certainly a special concern and solution for society, but less is involved in paying attention to the things. One head of the report shows that women are more likely than men to have disability over the course of their lives. The difference with age increases, and the majority of this increase is due to women aged 50◯66 years. It seems obvious to me that there is a link between these two reports, for it is still that in addition to caring for family members, both physically and spiritually, and in women who may have been at challenging jobs for years, when such family care is added, something can just happen and give up. As far as I can see, the sacrifice of society is concerned about the welfare system in and over the families is increasing the disability of women. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u13	Mr. President. I'm still in a position to be studying in this fine workplace, General. Today, there are the subjects of two sisters who are fighting the system and our ancient man - made laws. Do not let them control their own destiny, so they can change their name - the little they ask of them. V.E.G. Minister of Justice announces that a new human name bill is now being introduced in which freedom should be placed in the foreground. I wish her all the best for the case, but I remind her that ten of her own party members worked this case in our council with all the middle-class freedom workers, the forwards and the left-hand greens who couldn't imagine anyone having a name of their own. I find it very special that we still have the position that we need a special Human Name Committee to determine the names of people, that we don't trust individuals to baptize their children, and how much we need to change their own name as our own wish. In fact, I find it even more amusing to see this practice where a government that was involved in breaking this matter in spring and who took no part in the work of the Committee to change the case in a way that would allow the same issue to be restored to the General Assembly. In the language of a worker who does honorable work, this name is waste at the council's time. It's called childishity, it's called where things come from, not how they sound. I really hope that I experience that the council will abandon such tactics and that we will simply take good ideas, work on them, and finish them here together. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the response of the Department of Social Affairs that appeared yesterday to my query about maternity and parentorof. That's an extraordinary volume of response, and I think I have to give the highest commendation. The minister for putting as much work into it as he did. Here are 12 pages of 13 tablets that well illustrate how parents have been divided by sex, income gaps, job markets, and other activities during the last five years. There are some things I would like to point out that jump from these pages at first glance. First, the common right of parents, the three months that mothers and fathers can divide. They fall almost exclusively to women. Mothers use them to get a proper maternity vacation. About 90% of mothers use this right, and there are only 11% of fathers who use some of the common rights. Second, there are some 700 fathers who do not take a birthmark because of their children's births each year. This just seems to me to call for an independent investigation for the reasons involved. Also, 100 mothers do not apply for maternity, and I wondered if it's the women we can see in the news, such as. Moved from countries where they have been studying, they do not enjoy rights. This needs to be done thoroughly in the ministry, and then special attention must be given to the bottom of the system, the lowest pay that is ignominious for those outside the labour market and for students. We need to pick them up so that the birthworm system can serve not only as a workforce but also as a social support network.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u15	Mr. President. Two international events during the last week have caused anxiety on land and elsewhere. One is the invasion of Turks in northern Syria, which has severely disturbed the safety of citizens in areas divided by years of warfare, with casualties and migration. Although Iceland's government has responded well in condemnation of the invasion, I encourage the government to use all the opportunities we have to put us at great cost to peaceful solutions and to attacks on Kurda, which have been a powerful allies in the battle against shocking terrorism in the region and against continued wars that will always take on children, women, and general cities. We have a valuable place in the UN Human Rights Council that can be used to bring a member of the Member States into a special additional meeting of the situation in Syria and we also have a vacation agreement with Turkey, which requires respect for human rights and democracy. In this matter, I also urge the Generals to condemn the invasion of Turks and take a firm stand against her wherever possible. The second event is the severe imprisonment of Spain's Supreme Court, which was adopted earlier this day over the leaders of Catalonia's independence movement by the actions of the Catalonian Self - Control Council in connection with a vote on the independence of Catalonia in 2017 and the Declaration of Independence that followed. The judges are nothing more than tragic in a European democracy, silent in the 99913 years of imprisonment, and among those sentenced to death is the Speaker of the Self - Control Committee of Catalonia, who was judged solely for allowing a debate in the Senate for the independence of the province. In addition, there are two representatives of a public organization who have worked and fought for the independence of Catalonia, who are also sentenced to prison. Dear senators. I urge you to make this matter matter matter, express yourselves as you can, and refrain from seeing what the Catalonians want to do in their own independent struggles, it is unacceptable to imprison a democratic representative for the peaceful struggle for their political views. It is simply our duty as members of Congress to stand by elected representatives in democratic organizations imprisoned for their opinions. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u16	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize companies to the public goods of the threshing floor. 182, No. 191. The bill is suggested to provide a total community law for the public good. The purpose of the law is to provide more solid support to a free social organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. Work on the bill is rooted in the initiative of the Aldermistic Corporation of the Third Sector and the provisional work of the Department of Social Affairs and Security and, later, the Ministry of Employment and Development. The bill is based on an early bill submitted to the 145th legislature of the then industrial and commercial minister but that bill did not succeed. Several changes in the bill were made to simplify it, and it presented the 149th legislature, but it did not succeed. The bill is now presented back materially unchanged from the contributions of the last assembly. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests that the total Community law for the public good will be passed, i.e. Societys that agree to their agreement are established for the development of specific, clear, limited issues for the public good but are not set up for the benefit of social services. This refers to so - called ideal organizations established for human development or for something that focus on certain individuals who meet specific requirements or issues that are further defined in the approved society. The subject must be considered to some national fancies, such as sports and human culture, patients' sponsors, rescues and helpers, consumers and cultures. This would be the choice of a partner if a number of participants were to be chosen. Other forms of partnerships can be desirable if, at times, they are being controlled for the benefit of a particular subject, as shown by the budget and organisations according to the law of No. 19/1988 and non-employment agencies by law No. 33/1999. The bill suggests that the enterprises for the public goods will be registered in the P.R. list as the head of the head of the tax but that the registry will be part of a company file. It is suggested that the P.R.P. will be selected, although public members can make it possible for sponsors, management contracts and public licenses to be registered to the public goods of society. The concept behind the directive is that state, rural society, government and government government agencies and firms on government property can make it necessary for a general organisation who is reaching out to meet some minimum conditions of structure and demonstrations so that government funds can be monitored and other sponsors of such organizations can also appreciate what they are building up and who are responsible for a more efficient operation. However, it should be made clear that this is a government authority to require that a community be registered in a public society file rather than be required to do so. The bill contains regulations for the establishment of social services for the public good, the main elements of the approved social group as well as the provision for socializing, such as members, entry, extraction and deportation. The bill also contains regulations on how to determine, on general social meetings, on what subjects should be considered on the main meeting and on the main meeting. The bill also contains regulations about the control of the social, its role, and decisions at the meetings of the board. There is also a provision for the recruitment of the Commission and its role as well as the suitability of directors and managers. Governments and managers shall be legal and must have custody of their estate. The bill suggests that a company should vote for one or more accountants, accountants and an observer or members of a community to review annual accounts. It is therefore stated that no later than one month after the approved annual bill should be published on the local web site or made officially comparable. The bill contains an arrangement for the wearout of a social group, de-registered, e.g. when a company is retired, and a broken company is judged. Then you can find a set of registrations in your P.A. list, which is a selection plan as stated earlier. A section on the P.R. registry contains regulations on the details to be included and on which documents to follow with the notification of registration. It is suggested that the P.R. companies use the abbreviation and that only members of the public goods registered in a public society will be allowed and obliged to use the abbreviation in their name. Then there is the bill to find the law on wood, including the wood. it is subject to deliberate explanation of the wrongness or misinformation of the social status or other factors involved in public advertisements or announcements, reports, annual accounts, or declarations to the main meetings or members of the community, or reports to the public community. Finally, in the bill, there is a provisional principle that suggests that a general company registered in a business registry at the office of the law can ask that their relevant conditions be asked to change their registration into a community to the public goods registered in a public society list. On January 1, 2020, the law is suggested as being valid. This allows room for both partners who intend to qualify for membership in the P.R. list to prepare for the change as well as the government tax manager to make the changes to be made by the Agency. If the bill remains unchanged, there will be no financial impact on the survival of a government fund. The bill does not mean that there is an increase in income for the state's funds, and already the costs for its approval within the current budgets of the industry and the Department of Developments. V.E.G. President. I believe this is an important bill here aimed at establishing a more solid support for a free organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the story, agree with what she said. I believe this is a very important subject that can bring considerable happiness. As the minister may have no doubt, the matter came to this point in last spring discussion, but it did not succeed in completing it at once. Committee. Part of the reason why they did not complete was that they would be concerned about the status of a P.R. team or to form students in high school and other schools with regard to the bill and whether it might be considered. Now I know that there have been significant discussions in the past about this. I just wanted the Minister to know if she felt certain that the bill impaired in no way any of these partners should remain registered as public welfare companies, especially with regard to the age of the executives and the function of their partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u18	Mr. President. I observed the discussion that arose on the committee and was also presented with the subject. I had it checked especially with age, and the bill says that management and executives are legal. In particular, I had to check whether there are communities today, so that students, where people are not yet 18 years old, would be able to cope with the fact that there are societies. The conclusion was that it had to be this way. You have to be legal to be a manager or a member of a government. You can't tear apart those rights. We are suggesting that this is only allowed, but not related, and as a result, there may still be communities with persons under 18 years of age, but that they could be registered as public welfare agencies needed for management and managers, as suggested here, to be legal. The work I had done found that it could not be taken apart because the obligation is so that you must be legal in order to carry it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I fully understand this reasoning, but I still have some doubts that it might limit to some extent a young person's ability to sit in charge. Perhaps in the case of the committee, there is a surface that can solve this matter, to form with the laity. I hope that in the case of the Committee all stones will be rolled over. A minister also came into contact with his answers that we are talking about a selective registration. It is not an obligation to register. But I agree with it with the highest. The minister to the bill certainly looks for progress just for these communities because of the authority and rights they would receive as public welfare companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I had it checked very carefully whether it was possible to write out a person under 18 years of age in the management of such a group because I know that this is the case today, but our legislation is simply that if you are not legal, you can't go into debt. Since governments like this can do so, members need to be 18. Of course, there is reason to consider that the administrative structure of such associates with the view that youths under 18 years of age can influence society's activities, even though they cannot sit in charge. One way to do that is by an audience. If there's any way for the committee to find a further surface on it, I will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u21	A respectable president. A bill on what we're dealing with today, a bill for a community law for the greater good, has been a bit persistent and has had a long lifeline. Social Security Group, i.e. The universal organization of the third sector has held this issue in place for quite some time since 2008, and it constantly highlighted the importance of the success of the seminary. As a result of a challenge from these organizations, a minister of the welfare of society at that time, a Guðbjartur - fearing late Hannesson, appointed a team to consider the need for law making. The task force then returned a report in 2010 to the minister. The work that began at the Department of Social Services was then continued in the Ministry of Economic and Business, and then the Ministry of Employment and Development. A bill for a social organization, as it was then, was then presented to the Council for the 145th Council of 2015-2016, by the then industrial and commercial minister. It did not reach the point. It was submitted again in March 149, a well-changed and again in October 2019, so there is a series of major blows between a minister and the joy of the effort. I hope we see the results and results of this determination in the form of the legislation at this council, because we have a living example of these delinquency which prove that there is a great need to sharpen the legal and work of public society. During the council and on the basis of the reviews of various stakeholders, the bill has changed, grown, and improved in terms of men and women. It is presented again materially unchanged from its contribution to the 149th legislature, in March. I think they're looking with some anticipation for this bill to become a law. Perhaps the content of this talk becomes a part of repetition, for it is the same as it was earlier this year. This law will apply to enterprises registered in the public taxpayer's common partner file, which will manage to maintain the existing file and file or operating schedule for that purpose, i.e. These enterprises, to promote specific issues for the public goods as defined by the established approved and not apply to enterprises established for the benefit of members such as the Supreme Court. Minister cut it off. It is true that according to the bill, the registration of a social club to the public is expected to be selective and does not apply to all members of the community. Small enterprises that do not have extensive business do not need to apply for such registrations and can continue to work without the influence of these proposed laws other than being a model for good business. The national community has requested a well-defined legal system to support confidence in the work of public citizens and to promote good practices. A better understanding of the work of the organization requires monitoring and transparency, and in fact, this organization, many of which play a vital role in society, wants a solid legal environment to work on it, such as. self-employment institutions and private institutions already have. Otherwise, what is a public welfare organization in this sense? All of us know the examples. It is an organization that has enriched our lives through times, cared for interests, fought for the various rights and well - being of the city, created a conversation, been a voice, opened up our understanding of things in society, broke up isolation, and improved quality of life. Examples of these are the many, the ADHD Association, the Blind Society, the Fégður of Icelandic automobile owners, the Cancer Society, the Norwegian Women's Court, the National Society, the National Society, the National Institute of Youth, the National Socialist Association of Iceland, the National Socialist Alliance of Iceland, the Red Cross and, in fact, the SIBS, which is a significant subject to this and many others. A universal organization is essential to building confidence in its work. That's kind of the thing. The public, who often negotiates various tasks, such as defense and social services, should be good in the management of such partners and in the recognition of their responsibilities and roles, the manner of governance, goals, and the appearance of long - term vision. Any trauma or failure that takes place within such organizations, and has regularly become the media coverage in this country, may be directly and indirectly bitten by other public public groups and, indeed, also on public bodies, while the laws around their operation are not well defined. The aim is to make the network of public - health organizations in Iceland as best known in the countries around us, both in terms of tax collections of public health organizations and tax recoverys to companies and to support their work. On the other hand, the purpose of the law is also to develop greater confidence in the public welfare organizations that we so need. By enforcing legal requirements for such communities to enjoy various rights and responsibilities, the public is seeking to ensure that governments and organizations that have support or financial support are worthy of trust. So such laws would greatly improve the third sector and the community. The bill aims, not to establish rules for all free societies, but only for the defined public welfare organization, as has been done, e.g. In neighboring lands. Finland is often mentioned in this regard. A respectable president. A lot of headlines came up with a financial and business committee when the bill was submitted in spring, i.e. of 149th Council. The vast majority of them were the positive ones, but reviews, or reviews, made up of the bill that was unsatisfactory, in whole or in particular. As a result, in some cases it seems that there is a misunderstanding, an indistinguishable concept, a misunderstanding on that basis, a woman's confusion, or even a frequent interpretation, even a fear that the law will lead to an intervention in the internal affairs of partnerships in a way that would seem unacceptable to members of society. It also came to the view that if they accept the support from the public, they are being fully inhibited by making them registered as a public - welfare organization. This is discussed in Article 2. The bill says that if the state, rural society, government agencies, or legislators that are in the majority of the public grants, or do business treaties with the public goods, they are required or conditioned as conditions that they are registered in the public welfare union as governor of the tax. This is the main source of complaint, but it may be noted that communities that cannot handle money and who do not accept government support do not need to register themselves as communities for the public good. So, it's a very selective thing, as we have seen today. Then, according to the review, the bill actually reduced social freedom, and even a small group of partners would lay down because of a burdensome charge in the bill, that the individual enterprise would even be history. This is a valid view for attention, and this will probably be done in the discussion of the Economic and Business Committee over the next few weeks and months. However, there are, of course, certain conditions for the function of partners, e.g. that they be registered with a social security number. These conditions are not considered to be the restricted freedom of society. It is farfetched to view the conditions of this bill as a limit to freedom of society. Everyone will continue to be free to form communities. Fearful voices about burdensome demands have been heard. What exactly is this? First, the requirements do not seem burdensome, but they include a considerable detail in the bill that is good and should help those who are dealing with a variety of social activities to document and have all the aspects of society's activities. Second, these requirements apply only to companies who have decided to expand their size and take care of money. Such increased concentration is accompanied by increased organization, and the bill helps with such an organization. With regard to individual contributions, initiatives, and volunteers, it is an enormously important factor, fundamental factors in the community. That the bill will lead to a reduction in social activity and participation is out of the open air. Just as evolution may develop in the opposite direction, clear and well - defined guidelines and goals encourage many to support upbuilding matters. Part of individuals and their initiatives will remain decisive, both within partners and outside. This bill alone will not change that. Mr. President. I support the main objective of this bill, to increase the transparency and responsibility of members of the community who give up jobs for the greater good, those members of the community who want to enjoy a certain legal rights to governments and credibility toward society. It's just gonna lead to more professionalism. All of these are important elements in the Icelandic community, in a community where we want a public community to continue to play a variety of important roles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u22	Mr. President. The bill we're considering, a bill for a community law for the public good, has been in the process of the council and has taken way too long, at least Five conventions have since it was submitted, and it is a pleasure to have it restored now with the changes made in it during the last assembly. I think they're good, and I agree with that. The last speaker said that this is something that we can join in in the importance of finishing, working on the support and motivation of the public good news organization. We must try to follow up on what the organization itself says. True, as always, criticismal voices have been heard. One form is not necessarily suitable for all. That's why it's a matter of choice. The most important thing to me is, first of all, the definition of society, the public community. I agree that this only gives them support to everything they have to deal with in the community. That is not good, in view of the number of societies, that it is really possible to establish societies without any rule. For me, this is one of the most important things to do with government and rural society, that it is possible to demand that the public goods who accept funding or public funds by management agreements or such activities meet the laws of this law and be registered as such, keeping accounts and billings. It's one of the most important things in this bill as well as the control and structure of it. I also feel that this is one of the many ways in which the various organizations have been involved. We rapidly set a law on money theft and set it right to a public welfare organization. Sadly, we are faced with such a reality. I think by putting total laws around such organizations, we are at least to do our part so that everything will be more beneficial and visible. This stipulates the need for accounting and billing, which is in accordance with the accounting law. This needs to be published on a web or officially, and you need an accountant or such company or viewer to sign to complete this operation. I think it's number one, two and three. As I say, this has been in various ways throughout history. It is also important, as I said before, that all official funds that flow to such organizations are made clear. I'm rolling up one thing that's in 3rd. Section 6. where there is a obligation to keep a membership. What is needed there? There, a membership committee is an essential requirement for having, e.g. communications with members of the community in the field ministry at social gatherings. I would like to be examined in terms of the protection laws in which to conduct it. There have been some viewpoints regarding the fact that the various members of the organisation are not to be e - mailed unless they have obtained permission, so I would ask the committee to be checked. What may have caught attention, and I hadn't necessarily thought about, was in 9. g., a requirement that can be made to a minister for a meeting or for a meeting. If a government fails to hold a meeting for a particular matter, a member or member may request a minister to have a meeting at the company's expense, or depending on the circumstances, place the company's board on this meeting. It was something that I had just never realized would be sad if there was a big disagreement, and it doesn't want anyone in charge to have a meeting. A minister gave a fine answer as recorded in the 19th century. gro, including that the manager sees the nature of the business in accordance with the activities of the day, not unusual or major measures that he needs to take under control. It may have come first, for the management board has to keep a good eye on how the Society's accounts are being provided and on how the funds of the community are set aside, that it is always in accordance with the purpose of the society. It even turned. to the age range, i.e. 18 years of age: Those who are not self - superior and who are greedy must not shoulder the responsibility of being in such company. It is important, however, that young people's views are discovered, as we know only from their entire job. That's why I think it's a good idea where that applies and where people feel that it's necessary to be invited to an audience. I don't have much to say about this. I just think it's really good, and I really hope that in view of the way it should be done and in view of the time it has been given to develop in the experiences of the group that gave the conclusion this is based on. I trust that despite the indications that were made last, the advantage of making these communities that this case will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u23	Mr. President. I'm here to celebrate this bill and I think it's time that we're here with one more form of society, a community to the greater good, which is then directed by a special order that applies better to many members of the community that could not function well within other forms of society that are already approved. I agree with the concept that there is a legal embargo for a free community working for the greater good. I'm glad that since the bill first appeared in 149 C.E. a council has already been taken into account the reviews and comments received, and particularly because of the source that was originally in the bill that a minister might be obliged a company to hold an extra meeting and that a minister had the authority to break up his partner. This is now a court judge and needs a court order to enable this to be possible. I think it's a big improvement. Other changes are also made that are also for improvement. Still, there is still work on the bill, and I'm pointing out that the children's population still count many articles on the bill too blurred. There are things to explain. The consumer organisation has a comment on the acronym to be included in the name of the members of the organisation who decide to enter into this frame that is being created. It is not quite clear whether it is a choice or whether it is an obligation to identify itself with the ft-shame letters followed by the company's name. There seems to be a choice, and I don't think there was anything necessarily in the report I read, I don't think that would have been necessary. I think the will is much more likely to be the choice between checking into this partner form or not, not that once the person is enrolled into the peer form, he will accept this abbreviation, which is a delay. Then, in particular, I pause at the review of the National Association of Young People, due to limitations in the bill that governments and managers must be legal. A youth's relationship points out that this is not an option for a very large number of student groups and youth councils here and there on the country, i.e. Societys for the public good that are founded and operated by young people. This is something that I think we need to take into account because I can imagine that going into this society will make a certain quality label and I feel very bad if we have to rule out the young people and their organization from getting that stamp. There are some very burdensome rules, but many comments received during the previous council have yet to be taken into account. I hope for further treatment of the Committee this year the Committee lends itself to consider additional comments, improving the bill further. I agree with the members of the council who have spoken before and welcomed this bill that I believe is a great improvement, although a number of small instruments are needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u24	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers to legalize communities for the greater good. My opinion is that this bill is a big improvement. However, I wondered, " Is it not necessary to define more clearly which societies are for the public good? ' Therefore, I would like to read the following from 35 C.E. which has promised fines or prisons for violations involving votes at the main meeting, by permission of the President: The person should be treated with fines or prisons up to two years guilty of the following actions in terms of a vote at a prime meeting, as measured by IV. section: a. gains or other illegal opportunities to participate in a vote or in some other way to be confused votes, b. Embarrassing by an illegal dure, a violation of freedom, or a misuse of the position of a superior to get a member or his agent to vote in a certain way or not to vote, c. by deceitful behaviour, the carer or his agent doesn't vote, though he has intended it, or that his vote is in vain or has any effect other than expected, d. pays, promises to pay or oer a member or his agent funds or other profits to avoid taking his voting rights or to pay off the company's votes. e. takes over, asks for, or receives praise or other profits not to vote, or to pay the company's votes. I repeat, Mr President, I believe this bill is an improvement. I assume that the Central Party will contribute to the success of their therapy and that it will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u25	V.E.G. President. I won't extend this discussion very much, but I'll agree with them. Councilmen who have spoken up and welcomed this bill, which will return one more trip to the council. The discussion has brought into place what has been criticized so far. I can't see there's a lot of changes to the bill. Since public evangelism is being carried to a large extent by important volunteer work, it is important that conditions and laws not be too burdensome for the public good. That's why I'm focusing on what's going on. The economic and business committee that gets the case will be very comfortable with these issues and will be adjusted according to events. I reiterate, however, that we need to include in our public good work and to define and receive total legislation, such as this bill here, in order to be able to further support and encourage all the important work being done in this country. It is impossible for us to accept funding for all the work being done here. I'm not going to count it up, a respectable president, but I hope you will. The Economic and Business Committee will take it all the way through the council taking into account all the comments that have been made on the case so far and safely now that it will be taken care of on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u26	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise the change in foreign investment laws, No. 34/1191, with subsequent changes, onjaw. 188, 186th case. The elements of the bill are attributable to the comments of the EFTA, ESA, due to the regulations on the residence and home of the Commission and the management board of the law. In the 10th. current law, No. According to 34/1991, the European Commission and a greater proportion of the directors are to live in this country. However, the market conditions do not apply to the citizens of the countries who are involved in the European Economic Area Convention, the bodies of the European Parliament on the European Free Trade Association or the movers, as the relevant citizens are living within the stated areas. The citizens of other countries have to live in Iceland under the law, but a minister is permitted to give an exception. EFTA, ESA, has made a formal comment to the previously established dwelling standards, i.e. the requirement that the relevant citizens be placed in the above - specified areas. According to ESAs, living conditions are only right if they are citizens of other countries. Thus, the bill dictates to eliminate EEA's habitat conditions as well as the citizens of the countries involved in the European Free Trade Association and Newlanders Convention. The bill also outlines the living conditions of other countries' citizens in the region mentioned above. In 2014, ESAs first called attention to the case and directed ESA's comments to five legal columns. Three of those classes have already been changed according to the comments, i.e. Social law, private partnership law, and auto-employee laws, as seen by the Motion Act No. 25/2017. Cells presented here have the same effect as the earlier modified change bill since 2017. The reason for ESA comment is that one of the principles of the EEA Convention is that the right of citizens in the European Economic Area is not to be placed on the right of the citizens to establish confirmation of the territory of any other member of the region. The validation court hides even in their right to start and pursue their own business and to start and run a business. A law requiring a home in the EEA that conditions for rights can include discrimination that is considered illegal on the basis of the EEA Convention, ending the right to a free job being linked to state and not to residence. It is proper to note that the bill will not affect the government's ability to set narrower laws on foreign investments, according to Article 1. The law says that laws are valid for any kind of investment of foreign workers in the businesses of this country unless one of the rules of other laws or regulations in accordance with them. Laws therefore do not apply to investments if other laws predict something else, e.g. Earth law. Furthermore, if the bill is legal, it will have no effect on the general limitation of foreign investments recommended in Article 4. track No. 34/1991. These limitations apply regardless of associations, and ESA comments do not focus on Article 4. The law. It is not expected that the bill will result in financial influence on the state funds as a law. A corporate registry, however, needs to verify the details, but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Agency. If the bill of the law is to change habitat conditions, companies will be able to get citizens of the above-specified areas, i.e. Member States on the EEA Treaty, Member States at the European Free Trade Association or Residents Convention in order to conduct a administrative position or to be managers, regardless of the local citizen of other countries who are also living in designated areas. This adjustment is in accordance with government policies on simple regulations, and the Icelandic government should not place any further problems on the job than what is permitted under the international contracts of Iceland. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to a discussion in question. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u27	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a consumer loan law, No. 33/2013, on deck. 240, 223th case. The bill suggests changes in the law to better explain the rights of consumers and the responsibilities of creditors. The objective of the bill is to promote consumer protection in financial markets and prevent the avoidance of consumer loans. The bill is based on proposals from a report by a staff group I appointed in the summer of 2018 and was assigned to reexamine the working environment of small loan companies and make suggestions for reform. The bill produced the suggestions from the report that are considered to be most effective, while others still have further opinions on other matters or in cooperation with other departments. So the bill can be considered the first stage of implementing the report's proposal. First, the bill is suggested to sharpen the principle of law No. 33/2013 is indiscriminate to consumers and it is forbidden to negotiate or bear the laws of another state if this limits the consumer protection of the law. Second, it is suggested that there be certain legal requirements. It belongs, for example. we will, in the case of consumers living in Iceland, make a loan deal with a lender in Denmark. Then a question about the law can arise about the country's value of the contract. The bill suggests that if an Icelandic consumer makes a deal with a foreign lender, the European Act will require that the European Act be established on a closer basis. Third, if a lender or lender violates the regulations of 26. The law on the maximum annual rate of cost. The aim of the change is to make the rule of a maximal annual rate of cost clearer to consumers and to ensure more efficient implementation. The total cost of total borrowing refers to all costs, including interest, compensation, fees, taxes, and other costs to be paid in connection with a loan agreement. Thus, consumers need no more than a loan's head. Fourth, it is suggested that Navigator's office be granted general access to information collections under the law. It is important that monitors have information on the loan collection so that the level of activity and the impact on the market and consumers can be assessed. The change is intended, therefore, to make it easier for Nite Owl to observe the market in accordance with its legal surveillance role. The bill aims to eliminate the main problem described in the above - mentioned report of a minister's staff without adversely affecting the competition or the supply of legal consumer loans provided in telecommunications. The aim is to have the most impact of the bill on non-skilled loan companies and less impact on others. The goal of the bill is to reduce consumer debt problems due to small loans. In fact, consumers will be better able to carry Icelandic laws when a loan deal is made with a foreign lender and will not be required to pay extra legally. As for other suggestions from the work force report, they are, as I mentioned, for further consideration by the government and in consultation with the economy. In this context, I would especially like to mention that in cooperation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, there is an opinion of change in law No. 120/2011, head of the Ministry. Their aim is to prevent collections from costing consumer loans beyond legal peaks. It is a key element to directly influence companies who engage in illegal loan work, and I have hopes that the bill of the material will have light in the near future. At the moment, it's at the Ministry of Economics and Economics. In addition, in cooperation with the Justice Department and other agencies, the Department of Professional Relations, both primary and intermediate systems and legal matters, is being reformed for information related to the collection of small loans. Again, it is the bill I recommend here for the first stage of the introduction of the proposals made to the Minister's staff on the environment of small loan companies. What is presented here is not the final solution, but a part of a larger image. I believe that by bill there is an important legal improvement in the rights of consumers and lenders' responsibilities and thus the consumer protection of financial markets, and therefore respond to that pattern on law No. How we have seen 33/2013 in recent years! A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Economic and business committees for discussion and treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing in this bill. Trying to get a hold of these matters will not help. What I would like to ask is about the total cost of paying. They said he can't go over 50%. Did they talk about going down there? That it would be like in Finland where there are 20%? Did it ever occur to you to consider going down with that number?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u29	Mr. President. I appreciate that question. The talk was discussed, and it came to the fore. The bill looks like it happens. We do not suggest a change, but there is something that the committee can simply look at and discuss with those who are likely to appear before the committee. Similarly, the reviews will likely deal with this too. Then there's something that will be specifically examined and I'm so completely open for further changes there. 50%, of course, is a very high ratio. It's lower in some places. This is how the law is, and it has been for a few years, and it is something that the committee can specifically address and examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. One other thing, just so I understand the right thing: The deposit cost that goes on when the tax companies start paying off, we owe you 50. K. - or that's why five hundred are calling - and that's $16,000. stress every month when sent out a package leaflet. Does it have other laws? Is it not within the law that is being discussed today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u31	Yes, this is one of the factors that we have in a special examination with the Ministry of Justice. We've both heard of and familiar with this environment, and this is, for example, an environment. It is a matter of great importance to the consumers organization. We made it clear that it was not time to enter this bill now, but we are considering with the Ministry of Justice whether and what is wise to do on matters involving legal matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u32	Mr. President. Now small loan companies have been criticized from the beginning. They entered the market in 2010 when many were weak. They focus their markets on certain age groups and on people who have little money between them. Governments have also been criticized for not protecting consumers from these enterprises, that they are not required for certain conditions, responsibilities, and that the management is not clear enough. I was very disappointed when I saw this bill that I've really been waiting for from the highest level. Minister. I think it's very small and I don't think it's going to be the biggest problem. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has studied the bill I am a 1st transporter that was recommended during the days and is more about the environment of these companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u33	Mr. President. Yeah, I've studied it. It is true, of course, that we are going a different way in this bill. However, I would like to reiterate that this bill is not the only step we take in adjusting and strengthening the environment around these loans, and I specifically mentioned it in the introduction. However, I would like to take this step now while other jobs are being carried out in the Ministry of finance, which hopefully appeared quickly as a bill and other suggestions that are in a further light between the Ministry and other counselors. I'm not gonna stand here and say to make a little loan a good idea. It's just a really bad idea to take a little loan. I know it's delicate groups that take all equal loans. I know that, too. We are not here to contribute to a permit, but I think it is important that we distinguish between illegal loans and other services for which you have to pay a considerable amount of money and are not necessarily favorable, but it is completely legitimate. I was also impressed by the fact that my job made me feel that it was a burden and an obstacle to innovation and competition at that market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. However, I feel very important that there are strict conditions around the activities of such enterprises, which cause such trouble among certain social groups. Now it is known that most of those who go to the office of a credit agent, I think it's over 80%, have a business problem with small loan companies. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to see if she feels that it is right for such companies to be without permission in the light of experience. A consumer agency has used administrative fines that have not worked for any object, but if the companies were authorized and required to meet certain conditions, they could be taken from them. There's a bit of a good weapon, I think I'm, to companies that don't follow the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u35	Mr. President. I think we have to make a clear distinction between the non-sanctionable little loan business and the other forms of consumer loans. Although small loan companies we know are going to be responsible for today's minor loans, they would probably continue to lend minor loans as they do today. That's why I feel that the opening point for this job is to try to get things done so that it just doesn't pay off, doesn't pay off, to engage in these illegal activities. We already said that it is, for example, already. 50% max. The company goes over the top and they try to track it down, but they find other ways to continue offering these loans. So I think it matters -- and there I think the bill of finance is about to play a role - that we somehow get down to the root of the problem so that it just doesn't work, doesn't pay for these companies, to practice the manners that we're sorry about, and seems to be difficult to master, even if we're working on a higher ban on her than it already is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the bill and rejoice that this dangerous, or very bad, operation is being agreed on by everyone. I wondered: Has there been a job or an examination of it at what times and how fast people are taking those loans? I'm wondering if it would be possible for consumer loans to be paid only a day or two days in advance and possibly with consciousness, as is usually when you borrow. I'm telling you, there's a possibility there could be a considerable delay in this operation if such technical obstacles were inserted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u37	Mr. President. Yes, this is certainly one suggestion in the service group report, for example. There is a limit to loan saving at the specified times of the day, but there is a great deal of other types of consumer loans on the market and the automation is such that I think, at any given time, money can always be accessed. I don't know if there's any evidence or research on the bond of debt problems at certain times of the day, but we've heard stories about when people are taking these loans and stuff like that. But the benefits are uncertain. It would be difficult to carry out the rule or with supervision, so we do not suggest it in the bill. However, there is also something that can, of course, be considered more than what I mentioned in the report that suggested a number of suggestions that we went over and selected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister gives the answer and direct it to her to think about it a little more. I'm talking about not necessarily at certain times but on short notice, maybe 24 hours in advance. If he isn't, anyone can go to court and say, "I'm not responsible for this loan. It's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u39	Mr. President. I've taken this case to heart, and it's about to happen. The economic and business committee for the proper treatment and I expect this to be one of the factors that will be considered there, whether to add it, not necessarily at any time, but, like the day. A senator mentioned, with a specific advance where the applicant may even cancel before the loan comes through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister if she agrees with what she wrote in the Morning Press this morning in an interview with the Breki Karlsson, president of the consumer League, where he says it's just a cut-off for the small loan companies, this has no effect on the business of small loan companies, and one of which is interest, more than 50% interest. It's not that many years, maybe something in another tens of years, since these were thought to be okras. Why can't we just assume that there is nothing to be greater than growth? There's quite a lot of interest. I'm asking if she agrees with me in that it would be nice to set the goal there, if it wouldn't relax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u41	Mr. President. First, to answer the previous question, of course, I do not agree that this will result in no success or failure, or will be useful to a small loan firm. Then, of course, I wouldn't be suggesting these changes. I'm sure this will have effect and result. But this isn't enough, and I'm totally clear about it, so this is the stage on the way and other measures being announced. The question of whether 50% interest rate is not high - that's very high. I just agree with what. A senator, there are yoke fruits, these are unfortunate, unwise, and bad loans. But that is not to say that they can be removed or destroyed, so we are trying to find ways, both to ensure that people are informed about the decision they are making and that they cannot go against the boundaries we make. We make a decision as to what that person looks like. That's why I think it matters that we have the box, so it shocks those who are aware of going against the law, not that the responsibility is placed on either a public agency or the consumer itself because I think the other is more efficient. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But as I say, I just can't understand this fight with the little loan companies, that we haven't been over them long enough. I have a feeling about collecting these loans that these loans are being attacked by the worst, and there is no question about it that the worst economic situation is taking these loans. They are the horrors, the expense, and all around them. I have a feeling that the whole fight is similar to if we just had holy water and cross. That would do just as much good. We're not hitting the table and stopping this. We always seem to add something in, but this must be stopped, especially when you start watching that these companies are registered, e.g. correspondent in Denmark It's completely incomprehensible not to be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u43	Mr. President. If I could see a way out of the loan somehow or a way to prevent consumers from being invited to take an adverse, unwise, illegal loan, I would suggest such a way. What I don't believe in is that the way to handle the problem is simply that consumers are sufficiently informed or the consumers have enough opportunity to monitor. These things matter. But the important thing is that those who offer illegal loans will be cut off from paying off. The prime minister of finance comes in there strong, i.e. that it will not be possible in systems to collect loans if they fall outside our borders. Then we can discuss whether 50% of our numbers are going to be lower. It's the strong and the treatment the case here. But it is important that those who offer loans do not pay themselves, and this will happen to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u44	Mr. President. We in this room have been waiting for a cover on the business of small loan companies for a very long time. These companies have been criticized ever since they started working and making their way here on land. They came when large groups of people were hurt by economic collapse and profited at people who were already ill, and they were making a great deal of progress toward young people and people who are simply poor and who are suspected that they will not make ends meet at the end of a month's match. The consumer organisation, Nite Owl, U.S. Department agent, and, in fact, consumers' Department, has repeatedly established a financial and business committee to review this problem, and we've been waiting for prime launch from the government. And here it is. V.E.G. The minister recommended it earlier, and there's nothing. It doesn't do anything and bite no one. It just doesn't do anything. It's more about how the loans should pay than putting a frame around the companies. This company does not need permission to work here. They don't have to meet any conditions to be allowed to work, and the National Social Services is to handle the surveillance, but I think it's much closer to having these companies under the SEC, it's just a proper monitoring of this and that we're making proper demands on these companies. That's why, with nothing coming from the government last year, I decided to make a bill for a small loan company that assumes they need a license, and they have to go through with it. Information about those who apply to run a small loan company and all kinds of information listed to 10 teams in Article 6. The bill. The labour bank of Iceland may then be allowed to set up additional rules on information that comes with the application for work permit in this article, as at the end of this article. I think it's absolutely basic that a business like this needs a work permit. We need to know who owns these companies, who is in the management of the companies, what plans are in the business of these companies. Today we don't have any demands on this. It's a bill. It's a TV. Also, a minister does not, and I did not hear any better at the highest court. Minister but that she thought there was no reason for these companies to be allowed in this country or that they would have to make some demands on their frames beyond what is being done today. So I disagree completely. The company then made the bill their priority earlier during this council and is now in a review process, and the reviews are to be received on Friday, so hopefully the committee will begin working with the bill. I hope so. Councilmen agree that these matters will be discussed within the Committee because the bill that I am a 1 is also assumed that it is not a matter of interest to those who receive a loan. It is said that 48 hours will pass between the time of the loan application and the failure of the loan at night and at the end of the weekend and that the borrower is checked and checked regularly. So there are requirements for borrowers as well as borrowers, and then there is a check fee. The F.O. will oversee small loan companies, and they will pay for it as other financial companies pay for it. President. When I saw that bill from the highest level, I was very disappointed. Ministers, however, I hope that we on the Economic and Business Committee will make changes and include in the example when the loans are granted to and to whom and that we should make more demands for these companies and their duties and that they are being monitored. I look forward to working with the situation, and I trust it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, will be delighted when I request to attend a meeting of the Committee that these matters will be discussed and that we will be given the opportunity to bring in visitors who respond to inquiries on both issues so that members of Congress who have held up the program of this council to this point will receive the same treatment and case from a minister. Of course, in the United States our case is more complex and more complex than this simple little thing from the highest level. A minister who makes virtually no demands on small loan companies who treat people the way they do. It is not enough that the small loan companies have a source of expediency and unreasonable demands on borrowers after they are lured into borrowing at night and on weekends when the person may have a bad time and is ill. They don't consider it. They're involved in collecting companies to make sure people pay their loans. Mr. President. I've described my disappointments with a bill of the Supreme Court. A minister I don't feel anything about, and I don't face the problems facing with small loan companies and even at the highest level. A minister says that this is a step of many others, I did not notice, or I did not understand her talk which steps should be taken and when. The rest were just being examined and this was being done at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u45	Mr. President. I found this very interesting talk to me. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I was wondering about the work permit. I would have thought the loan agencies would need a work permit anyway. It's not a law or law that makes the work permit of these enterprises in this country, and I wonder if there are more loan agencies or financial institutions that don't need permission to operate here, I don't know if the Senator can instruct me on that. It also comes to the SEC, whether or not there is a direct need for legal action. Maybe I'd be interested to know what it's like. A senator wanted yokes to be handled. We've taken it from a law that was once about procreation, whether it had any ideas about that subject, and then could explain it to me on the license, I didn't realize it wasn't required.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u46	Mr. President. Yes, there is a certain activity that does not need permission. I don't know all of this now, but it's clear that those who do small loans don't need licenses. The surveillance is at the Netostry, not the F.O.B. That's why I'm saying we need special forms around this operation that will deal with the situation and that the surveillance would be done at the SEC, which is knowledgeable and staff in that area, and of course we have an application. In my bill and ours in the United States, yokes are not accepted, but I'm sure we'll adopt them as members of the Committee because 50% of the interest is indeed yoke fruit. I would certainly like us to join them and bring a change of suggestions and a decrease in interest and not allow such a yoke to grow. After listening to a talk at the top, I feel a bit heavy. Minister, because I feel that this bill is a means to give small loans continued fishing permits to poor people, young people who are vulnerable. That's totally unacceptable to me. At least we can. If at any other time we want to let them work, turn aside to put a proper frame around the activities of such associates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u47	Mr. President. Thank you for the good answers. I would have thought a small loan company was under the definition of financial operations or even banking outlets. I don't quite understand why they don't fit into that frame. I don't understand why they get the special treatment for financial activity that is obviously part of this, get a custom frame, and be in the Netostry. I don't know if this is an inheritance of time or when it happened. Did this surprise us, or were we too late to take action, and are we still late? I can't see any reason why small loan companies are not just part of financial activity, so I should fall under the SEC. I'm amazed. I don't know why. A senator has a story on this, how it happened. At least I'll give her an opportunity to explain this even more to me, you ignorant woman.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u48	President. You can recall the story behind such activity, but I don't know it by heart. We discussed this at the council in 2012 or 2013, reminding me, and good if the law was not set before them. We can look it up. In any case, we are in such a situation and have the opportunity to reverse bad developments, no matter what steps were taken in the past. When we were discussing the small loans at the council, there were a lot of people who wanted to ban them. But there were others in this room who said that there is no place to do it. They should put financiallocks into high school. Then young people would realize that taking small loans is not a good idea. Of course, that is not the case. Those who speak that way have, e.g. have not had a young addict in his home. This is big. It's a business that makes a difference. There is a spontaneous requirement for us to protect consumers better than we do better than the highest. A consumer minister proposes with his bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u49	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the story, and state that I support this case. I have much to discuss the small loans in this and many other places, special discussions with a minister, and others have been given in to the use of such loans. They're bad things that I think we're going to have to try to prevent by any means necessary, and this case is part of it. I've said here that I've been worried that more needs to be changed, such as the collect laws and a pleasure to hear from a minister that this work is being done at the Ministry of finance. Perhaps it had to be a bandworm, and the minister mentioned his conversation with the minister of justice. Since the beginning of the activities of such enterprises in the country around 2010, they have become a source of loans to us and other reasons for discussions at conventions and elsewhere. The terms of loans are considered by many to be unscrupulous examples of yokes and various aspects of their practices as an act of wrongdoing, even as when the law was being handled by covering these enormous interest laws by allowing some form of painting to be carried out on an electronic book. It is also a matter of many that small loans are directed to community groups that live with lax economics and young consumers, people in general who are struggling. This confirms the details of the office of a credit agent so clearly. It is the young people, the takers, the addicts, and the people who are dealing with addictions, who are involved in their financial problems, and who have to eventually seek the office of a credit agent to sort out their own matters. Of course, it is not just those people who are going to the small loans; there are many others, but this is the largest group. Work that is involved in loaning money short-term with huge interest is so that, on a yearly basis, hundreds of percent of names, as we have heard in the news and have been made available here. It is an illegal growth under the laws we live in. As in the past, this is often done around the rules by calling it a loan cost and a number of other premiums used to raise the cost of borrowing above what is permitted. Small loan companies are part of the global changes we see in financial markets, including the U.S. with clever devices and digital solutions. New financial technology, FinTech, has developed rapidly and in some cases, as we have experienced tangible warnings, faster than the relevant legislation. That's probably what we're going to face in this country, that through the time, the lawgiver has not achieved enough of the changes that have been made in that area. One of the things I've been through many times is that the largest mail from a credit agent is, or has been at least over a period of time, the small loans, and the people in their problems, which have been brought in earlier. paritaprevir With a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, the small loan companies don't finance the operation of the agent in debt. Other financial companies and credit companies, camp loan funds, pension funds, insurance companies, the cost of this office, and I think we should keep it so that the small loan companies do the same. Why should it not be if companies are borrowing on a different level, especially in the light of history and evolution, that they have to submit to all the laws that we would like to have in financial activities if they are going to be at the party? I'd like to do everything we can to shut down such a company myself, but if there's any impossible in it, I think we have to put it in a very narrow and rigid frame. The consumer organisation has been very diligent in keeping the companies out of criticism over their business practices as well as on governments that have responded late. In 2016, the Nettorial Office laid tickets on three small loan companies because they did not follow the instructions to change the way they did work in 2017. This was confirmed by the consumer appeal committee, so we have an accepted problem in our arms. The loans who have paid all too much interest and huge interest fees have very little chance of getting their reimbursement on these interests as it is today, and this is where we try to improve it to some extent. This has cost a lawsuit and something like that when people have tried to get their rights and I have found one of the things we would have to do to unite all the ministry involved, and that might have been the best thing to bring in the bandorm. But all right, we've got it this way here, and ahead of us, I guess there's more to it than there are. It's not just one thing that has to be changed in the law but many things, and that's why they share in many things you hadn't previously thought about and felt that there could be one whole - souled thing. The report given on a small loan company included: Refer to Finland, where you are working on a consumer loan bill and talk that consumers are not obliged to pay interest or other costs of loans beyond the annual rate of cost or legal peaks. That's one of the most discussions we've had, and I think we all agree on it. But up to now, we have not been able to put roofs on annual rates of cost because companies always find a way to handle it. I think it is also important to try to prevent justice, as we have heard about this illegal thing, and I agree that it is important that we know who is behind the companies, to oblige a state in the holding. We've wanted it in general in the financial sector, and we've put considerable emphasis on the economic breakdown of trying to create a transparency in this and I don't think that these companies should be excluded. It's been shown, and it's even. The reason for such activity was tripled, the small loan companies were joined by a collected company ready to collect the loans they are presented. It belongs to one lawyer. There's a large number of fractures in the system because the F.O.A. does not monitor lawyers, but they monitor themselves, i.e. Iceland's police club is investigating lawyers. I don't think it's realistic that when a company goes wrong, the law firm is in position to deal with it, I don't suppose. In itself, there is nothing that can do. It can blame the attorney who has the collection, but it cannot accuse him and can actually use extremely limited measures. That's what I think we have to deal with. The Neythians'panels have made it clear that they brought a case on behalf of several creditors to the specific collection companies I referred to, but because they were not members of a case, they were dismissed. Therein comes the legal interpretation and technology that it is unacceptable that such a interest organization can appear in the hands of someone and make a complaint or be taken into consideration. One of the things that have also been mentioned, and it is important that people in all ages have information about how the loan is combined. People who are in difficulty may not be aware of anything but just the loans they borrowed, not the rates of interest or loan costs or other costs, and have to be able to assume that they are listed if so they choose. People are in different conditions when they borrow, things have happened. There is no roof on legal recovery, and this cost is huge, as we have heard, the low - income cost of power growth, and no one seems to be able to control anything. It is also sad that poor loans keep people in a straitjacket when they are in this situation by threatening them to put them on a budget. No one wants to go there with the consequences. Those who come to the bank and want to borrow, whether for housing or for anything, do not have to give up if they are in debt of small loans. The absence of information is also shocking. People can have millions in small loans and shit, but when they get into the bank, they don't have to give it up, and they don't have to give it up. I think it's one of the big parts. Instead of being helped to pay off a loan, the hospital continues to move on to zero. The person who has universal information about us Icelanders is Creditinfo. We'd like to talk about Google and Facebook having information about us as well as about others in the world, but Creditinfo has a lot of information about us Americans and others. This information. I think there's a reason why we should see if we have to make rules there, because it's all a little hanging out. They're mainly the ones who can write on a dissertation record. At least I think it's sobering, and then there's the other thing about the banking. When you apply for something, you pick a box, especially on the Internet, under all circumstances, in the middle of the night and at least. People turn around and find out that they've brought a long debt. The bank cannot cope that a card has been authorized, and the person is stuck with it until the debt is paid because the bank feels that there is nothing he can do. It's not supposed to be that simple. I'm saying it's impossible. We know all about ourselves when we go online and just say "I love you" and then you go on and participate in all kinds of games and stuff. We know we're getting information about ourselves, but we're not looking at the terms. I think there's a lot of stuff in there, for example. It's about social media. This should not be that simple when borrowing. When you go to the bank and borrow, you have to go down to the details with you. We need to examine the responsibility of all those involved, not just someone else. I agree with what the Neythal Association has suggested, that there be a chain responsibility in the collection. It'll probably come in later, and hopefully the secretary of finance will pick it up. It is very important that the responsibilities of all, i.e. Cities, agency services, financial institutions don't refer to one another. Rather, they are responsible for all. It's a nutty marketing done by the small loan companies. Anyone who has tried to register, without ever taking a loan, knows that the message will be received if there is anything about being in the environment. Then you'll be able to borrow a small loan if you want to do this or that, get to the festival, whether it's for the Island for a shopping weekend or the Secret Solution or whatever it is, the little texting will come all the time. That is absolutely unacceptable. Christmas lies ahead, and this too will come as a result. Just pull yourself together - there's something going on. I can go on for a very long time. I think we've got tests to deal with too. Finns made an excellent study, but it has a presentation similar to that of Iceland. There's a good coverage of that investigation, and I think it's something we have to put into, to look at Iceland's small loan market, both the size and even the other, so we have an overview of it. We have some information now, but we need to make it specific so that we can see the trend. I don't talk about it when we're trying to sort out the group, then we need to know what the consequences are, if they change something, or if we have to do more than here. In Finland, the clientele was found to be in his 30's, at all the pay points of society, but the youngest people were more likely to take back and forth on loans. Similarly, there were young single parents, underpayers, and unemployed ones, as shown in the case of an agent when he was identifying debts. I think we need to put our hands on this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u50	A respectable president. We're dealing with consumer loans. I want to ask you why. A senator who claims to support the bill how she sees it going, whether it's going to stop something. The biggest question is that Nite Owl is to monitor this, and it can write and demand information from the small loan companies. They've shown up here so they don't answer a thing. I have no doubt that they will refuse to respond to the Navitors Lab and the Netothal Room have no resources to do anything about it. She can't force the small loan companies to make up her own table in any way. Then it's the interest. I feel that since we're on the other side doing this, it would have been possible to add a bit of weight, not about 50% of interest, but just a normal weight growth, and nothing more than that. Hv. A senator entered one large elephant in this system. It's Creditinfo. It is quite remarkable how that company can behave toward the individuals under it. It seems somehow that there is not a general moral law on that business. Does she not agree that it too had to be handled seriously? Then there is the other: Is she willing to agree that, first of all, this is being done well and follow, for example. What the Netothal Association Pointes to? They know the story from A to Z and say that the bill is useless. It might have been easier to do this much better and to make it work this time, since we always seem to be digging the same can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This bill may not go as far as I would have wanted to do. It's just like it is. But that has a bearing on it. In case of a moment. A senator examines, e.g. Section 3. is not required to pay the total cost of loans. I agree that since I started talking about such loans, I feel that the SEC should be on the outside. I don't know about Netothal. Like what? A senator points out that she has been denied answers when she has requested information. Now it is a very clear law duty, that is to be answered. I don't know if I have any better luck with the small loan companies getting away from answering. Why should they respond to the SEC rather than to the Netostry? So I don't really know if there's any reason to worry about this. But I believe it should be the same as other financial functions on the market. In terms of the ratio costs, I rely on what a minister opened earlier when he said that the committee could take care of lowering him. I think he's way too tall, 50%. I think it's way too high and I haven't put anything to it and I've said it in talks before, so I trust that we'll fix it as well as we can. The minister also answered correctly earlier that there are things that are not heard under her Ministry that we have to fix and the Neighbour Association have been pointing to, and I said that maybe it was best if it had been a tape worm on this whole case. Then we could have put our arms around it in the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers, and in effect, he agrees that the very fact that the consumer room is there is a security officer, that there are other laws on this loan. It should be exactly the same as a bank. There is no difference. I began to try to find out where that money comes from, who owns it, and how it's done. There is no information available. There's no such thing, and I ask: How do we know that it's not been e.g. Is this the case with the pursuit of money? We don't know. There's no way to know. That's exactly the basis for money-thrusty because it's so low. Nobody's gonna notice them. You don't know where the money comes from, who owns it, who gets it, nothing. And they're in another country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u53	Mr. President. There's always transparency that's good. That's, I think, especially in financial matters. As I said before, I have always felt, especially after the collapse, that we should agree to increase the level of transparency in everything is a factor in financial and financial activities. I don't know if we're allowed to do it on our own. It's to be informed of property. It's true that this could be new to money, we have no idea. I don't know if it's possible, but I would have wanted this operation to be illegal myself. In this regard, however, we may need to look to the experiences of other nations. Of course, we should, as I pointed out earlier. First and last, I welcome every step of this, but I agree that we need to get more transparent in such activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I can agree with so many things as hell. A senator said, and in fact, I feel like a dog. A senator was more likely to have been speaking for my own bill, which has been measured and is now staying with a Economic and Business Committee, waiting for work than the highest bill. Minister. I want to ask you why. A senator, who is also the head of Congress of the Left Green, whether she will encourage a representative of the Left Green in the Economic and Business Committee to support my request that the bills be checked together, they stand just as open before the Committee and receive the same treatment. Of course, I'm hoping that at least... Someone from my bill will be accepted and asked. A senator would trust to declare that she will support that there will be a Senate bill and a bill from the Minister and Government - I was going to say on an equal basis, but that's not quite a good word. But I hope so. A senator understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I've declared support for bill w. Senator. I feel that most of it is my idea of a small loan in Iceland, and we have discussed this in a similar way here at the council and elsewhere. In this as well as in other cases, they need to be tailored to what is commonly done when it comes to reviews. I think it's an interesting approach to discuss the administration bill and the Senate bill. I think we always need to wonder if we should go new ways to work at the council. I don't intend to express any particular support for it, but I find it interesting to discuss it in general and may only be shocked to see the change in job practices in committees when there is a problem. This has sometimes been done, especially by members of Congress. At least it's an interesting approach, and I think that changes that might be made to this administrative bill are somehow found in the bill. Senator. Whether the bills are discussed or not, I trust that they will only be accompanied by another member of the council and hence represent the left greens will produce certain changes that I think are needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In fact, I think it's gonna be a little bit of a test of the Ministership and if we've learned anything from it before the crash, and anything from the General's study report, which was exactly discussed on the Minister's case. Now we're what? A senator of both classes, who met once a week to discuss the matter with the president, and often the Senate. And I think it's very important that we work with them all the way, show them the same respect and politics, at least. ... witha release on committees. You can get them into the Senate Hall and knock them down, if more of it doesn't want them. At the very least, we are not spending our time almost in vain if things are not being done on committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm a big senator. I've always talked about the fact that we're supposed to do a story and try to get them on, and I think it's part of something like that. that the matter exists between councils, so we do not have to go back and forth forever. In fact, I'd think it was the first thing, that we didn't have to measure for the same case year after year. That, on its own, would be a great improvement. I can honestly say that people's time may be badly treated when they're doing such things. I would agree to just take a case and give it up as the council commands each time, but there are some conflicting opinions, such as I and I do. A senator knows that arrangement. I may not have to say any more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u58	Madam President. Hv. A senator began by describing support for the bill, but apparently he wants to go far beyond the bill. Even small loan companies wanted to illegalize everything. To some extent, she wants to go in different directions with the bill itself. I mean, mostly, whether the surveillance should be in the hands of the Nite Owl and the SEC. I wanted to ask you why. A senator would understand that even the Senator would be willing to define small loan companies as creditors. Then we could move the operation to the SEC, but we could do more. We could demand a certain amount of money, charge it for a bank tax, and make it very sad for them by specifying it that way. I just wanted her to think about it. Then I wanted to ask, too, about her opinion of yoke fruit and whether it needs to be taken into consideration and even made legal adjustments in the case of procreation. It would also limit the activities of these companies. I believe that by the Marketing Authorisation and by committing these enterprises under the FMEs, it might be done to ensure that if the FME is unable to obtain information from these enterprises it can be dislodged. However, that cannot be done by a consumer clinic, so I wanted to find answers to the two.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd like to start with the yoke. Like small loans, we have talked about them as loans, and we need to change them. That's why I talked about it, and the minister opened up the same thing, that we had to change these criteria, and I think the council should take it and do it, perhaps look to Finland, or where it has been handled clearly. Regarding the Marketing Authorisation and whether a small loan company should be like any other bank, the Minister also did well. Of course, there are equipment on whether or not it would work. In fact, we might not be talking about a small loan company anymore but about banking. It's a completely different environment than this company's been working in. I also agree with it, and that's why I've been holding this thing on to the F.S.A.'s because I can only rebuke and fines and stuff like that, certainly, as I quoted in my speech. I may not have to reiterate that I wouldn't want to have this operation on the land, so it's now just a simple answer to that, but I think we're confronted with the fact that we're not going to end it and we need to try to control it. I don't know what we're doing. A senator is wondering here, allowing the operation to be cleared. There are vessels of it, as it came to pass in the parable of the minister, whether it is well able. I'd like it if we could do it and take a bank tax and do exactly what we can do with other financial companies if possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u60	Madam President. I thank you very clearly and clearly. A senator and perhaps just wanted to hope again for support in the financial and business committee on the payment of this case, changing it so that we can frame these companies which I think we all agree to are undesirable. They have far too free to act. I can't see this bill going far enough, and I think we should take the bill away. paritaprevir With a new Harðardóttir Daughter, perhaps taking the best out of both, making an acceptable match that would make these companies really difficult to perform. That is what we have to do, and there are ways to do it. But they're not in this bill as it is now, so I welcome the senator's solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u61	Madam President. Like what? A senator mentioned I think that it is the sincere will of all of us, at least I believe, to grasp this in an acceptable way, and I trust it too, as the bill will deal with certain factors during the collections, which I think are also very important, coming from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and as a minister mentioned earlier in talking with the Ministry of Justice on specific aspects of the case. I would have liked for us to put all this in one unit, but that's not the case. This is a stage, this is a step, they're small. However, these are steps, and I rejoice every step we take to improve the handling of this impossible case that we have been facing for far too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u62	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the growth of consumer protection, or we'll be getting a bill to legalize a small loan company. In this context, I have to point out an interview with Breki Karlsson, president of the Nite Owl, in the Morning Press this morning. That's where he says the little loan companies are celebrating. The story says, with permission from the President: This bill is not going to do anything to stop the country's small loans. With the Netothians, we have noted this view in the past, reports Breki in a conversation with the Morning newspaper, and continues: "Under this bill, Netstors Office will be authorized to call for information from the small loan companies. A consumer's room is permitted to call and call as they please. There's nothing to say that this company can, will or must answer. Moreover, there is no excuse for not responding to the call. Not to be overlooked are the credibility of these companies. However, if they decide to respond to the call of the consumers'office, there is no way to find out. Go on, Breki, with President's permission: ▪ There are three things we need to do that can prevent small loans in this country. First of all, we need to lower the maximum interest, they're not as high as in Iceland. Second, meetings and expenses must be passed on, and third, these companies have to be registered, but still strictly authorised. At the end of the story, it says: Then Secretary Breki says we don't have to touch the business of small loans. They must be celebrating this bill. This bill will have no effect. If the government really wants to stop this operation, I'll point these three points out. In many ways, the work of these small loan companies is incomprehensible when you read and study the treatment with them. I'm shocked at 50%. In this context, I have pointed out that several decades ago a business was established at the 25 - year - old branch office, which offered similar interest. It was a government company, and it had police action which was stopped. But imagine with this tiny loan company, even in the bill that the annual relative cost was over 3,30%. What does that tell us? To my part, I say, "How on earth have we been able to let this happen? " Why in the hell have we not stopped this? That's completely incomprehensible. You get kind of, like, like you say, "Rose stop." That such an enterprise should be permitted, that they are not authorized or authorized, that there can be a loan of money that no one seems to be able to observe, which no one knows from where it comes from and no one seems to be able to tell anything about it. I ask, " What ancient age are we in this struggle? ' Then, with the loyal help of VR, the Neytendians try to put a restraining order on a general body collect. According to a restraining order, illegal procedures are used to collect requirements, but this is not enough. It seems somehow there are other laws that apply to these loans and these financial functions than to banks and other institutions. We're not starting to talk about this this year, not last year, not last year. We've been talking about this in the past few years. Who's going to take it? Yes, it's the bite of the one who should be least affected. The most amazing thing about this is that the people who land in this situation can be with, not one, not two, but scores of loans of tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions, or more, and there's no stopping. Then they charge 333% interest. And what happens if the person doesn't pay? He's got Creditinfo's records and some retail company. I just refuse to believe that there's something that can't be done on this case and I refuse to believe that we're once again trying to stop these companies. This is not supposed to happen. We're supposed to make sure once and for all that it's stopped. Now the bill is on and off. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Hardydirdóttir pointed to the Continent's bill. Of course, these bills are all to be taken, and everything they can do is to stop them, in an attempt to establish a bond with this illegal activity, which I believe is illegal. As I've also pointed out, we don't know where the money comes from. We quickly took care of the law because people were afraid we'd go to a black list for money. I'd like to know where that money comes from, who is behind that money, and where all this huge cost and interest go. They call a warning bell, but in some way, those individuals involved in this case seem to be uncontaminated, they can ignore everything. That it's possible to have this type of company working in Denmark, and how do the capital transports go between? What's the structure of these companies? It doesn't seem to be on the table. I've got to agree with the Nite Owl on this matter. It seems to me that this bill will not return what was expected. Yet, I sincerely hope that the Minister will quickly submit another bill that would stop this. There is also a collection of these loans, those who care for it - and also Creditinfo who puts people in extraordinary trouble by registering them on a register, people who, in most cases, are sick, people who are trying to fix themselves. I know that people have been taking small loans to earn food, and that's when they're in a huge cycle. The fact that there are people out there who have to go that way for food or other vital things is actually the most pathetic thing to do. It is the subject of another speech at a different time. But as I say, it is completely incomprehensible to me that this case has not been handled long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u63	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, waste and waste. Transporters besides me are nuts. The members of Óli Björn Kárason, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Jón Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason and I Inga Sæland very much. Earlier, the bill was moved by the current highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gudley Þórðarson. In 1st. The bill says: ▪ After 1st mg. 17th par. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Unauthorized or disposed of waste or other wastes are to be disposed of in the wild and in the country's roads. Two. stands. ▪ After 2 mgr. 90. gt. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: And he shall be guilty, at least one thousand years, which breaketh the law of two mg. 17 gt.How can I help you?....................... In the 3rd. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Here's a brief report, a respectable president: The bill has previously been introduced to the 143th legislature Council of 145th, and a 149th legislature. As I said before, the current highest power moved. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Þór Þórðarson, first of all. Waste and other wastes in the field are obvious to the environment. Disadvanted that wastes and other wastes are disposed of in the wild, its value will be affected. It is known that high costs of waste disposal are needed in the country. The bill proposes legal action to keep nature clean and to improve our thinking. In accordance with a discussion conducted on the bill at 149 C.E., changes in wording have been made in its terms. Is this done in order to make clear and in accordance with the wording of waste management laws, No. 55/2003. At the same time, the scope of the arrangement has been enlarged. I'd like to say in general that it's important that the lawgiver has some legal principle to handle these matters. Fortunately, in my district of district, since since my rural society changed its police releases, I notice that after the local community changed its licenses and decided to forbid RVs to park anywhere in nature, there has been a great improvement in the quality of society. It was once accompanied by all sorts of filth and filth. I think that me and the Icelanders have done quite well. I'll be more aware of the garbage and dirt we've got to get on top of it, and we need to direct them to our young people to take care of our beautiful country and to teach people how to appreciate pure nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u64	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill for a change in nature protection, waste and waste laws, not to dump waste on the field, and I support the bill as a whole. But I make comments to one thing. That's the ticket. This is to be treated with a minimum of 100,000 dollars. who violates the law of this law. If we have two individuals, one on the disability or pension, the other on the high banks, 3 million a month, who will bite more? I'd like, and I'm sort of recommending it, income connections as I know they did in Finland with fast fines. We could have fixed fines, I don't know what it would be like if we were discussing a business in that context, we could, too, have fixed fines for it. But in this case, 100,000 bites. The guilt varies, it bites exactly how much money you earn. As a result, I want the answer. A senator feels that this is a normal amount in this context, whether it would be normal to accept the guilt so that it will bite everyone evenly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u65	A respectable president. Thank you for this interesting inquiry. In itself, I had not pondered with the bill's contract, and I may not have wondered how guilt bites people. Of course, this is the right course. A member of the body does not ask when he comes in the public address that he always refers to those who are less fortunate. I can totally take my hat above him with it, any time, and anywhere. It's very important to think about it. But this is how we should walk, whether we have a high salary or a low salary, that the land is as good as when we get to it. That's what I focus on. I hope already it is. The Environment and Transport Committee is about the matter, but I will refer the case to it, if this should be the tip of the committee, and I'll be sure to discuss it. I will by no means violate it in this public address. I feel, though, that there is also a greater need for general action. I don't have the right to know how to deal with the law or fines. But I find this inquiry very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his counter-sponsored and subjugated actions. Of course, it would be wonderful if this were done. Then I want to get to something else. I hope that this discussion will cause people to think twice and not to dump garbage on the open field, but how should we carry it out? Where are we gonna get the garbage cops? Who can point this out? How do we get a ticket for that? These are questions that arise, whether or not. A senator thought of it. Then there's the other thing that I'd like to see on the bill, to make it kind of our primary duty to start with the youngest, to go to nursery school, to college, to teenagers, to hammer on people. We need to engage young people and make sure they learn how to deal with nature. Since they are superior to us in many ways, we are to follow them even to put them into every part of the program how we want to walk in the natural world. I ask him if he would agree that we should see to it that it is carried out that everyone is informed of this and that we begin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson once again. The last thing he said, about our young people, our children, is very important. In the old days when I was growing up, a man took the garbage truck to Hamar, where everything was flushed in the Western Islands. It was my mother and I were raised. It wouldn't come up with anyone today. Nobody dumps garbage into the ocean on a few boats around the Iceland Center, so we make good progress. I agree that it is vital that we cultivate this with our children and our community so that our country is clean and that any association, whether inside or outside, is in harmony with what we want, and we walk about as we want others to do. For the exports of how the gangsters get caught, an old policeman may know it better than I do. Of course, this often happens, since people are alone in the field. Yet, I would like to point out that in many places, there are portents who do a very good job. Perhaps some of their work would have to be connected. They often have tips on what goes on in the highlands, dangerous driving, and so forth. They're doing a very important job on this. Actually, I'm not just talking about the highlands, I'm talking about the whole country. But this is a thought - provoking point. In most cases, when the police are on the move, they would catch those who are impure the land by the way we are trying to prevent it by means of these laws. Yet, a hundred thousand dollars. I don't think that they have it for the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u68	Madam President. It's a good bill. I have a question about the surveillance. I know that land healing has made room, and I know that the entire country's law is in full control of its responsibilities. In most rural areas police are released not to dispose of waste in public. But I don't know that there will be income for the sake of such violations. I don't think they're the top-priority of the law. I wondered if we should rather focus on people's consciousness and that this is something we need to be aware of. I would have thought it would be common sense to bring up in most Icelands to do well and not be throwing garbage away at a certain location. I don't think the surveillance is going to be necessary, and I don't like making rules where there's no surveillance. If the rules do not follow enough supervision, my attitude is usually that we may as well not make the rules. So I'm just gonna ask about the check-up and if. A senator knows the experience of the local community. I don't think that much of this was fined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u69	A respectable president. I would like to thank for what may be meditation rather than a question. I agree with what happened. A senator is leaving. We are to walk well in our country, teach one another to do so, teach our children to do so. Despite all the good promises, however, we need rules in our community. Not all the regulations we put in the council that will be added to the police, however, if they do not necessarily follow. Police are involved, and I'm sure it's not the first thing my comrades in the city of Rangers and Aarhus can think of when they go to work to see if anyone's throwing garbage. They have a lot to do, and this may not be their first assignment. But this is one of the police's activities when she is on the move, and if she is aware of it, action is, of course, taken in accordance with her role and responded by fineing the individual. I realize that landkeeping and monitoring in the highlands is a project that always needs to be increased. I spent a week in the highlands the other day with a group of 100 people, and it was noteworthy how these people, the country people, walked over their rights. It has great respect for the land, and that is exactly what we all need to learn. But there's a black sheep in all the money, and we're trying to make them walk away without paying any share to the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u70	Madam President. I have the same faith as the other. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, there's not going to be anything that's going to be added to the police for this bill. I don't think anyone expected that. That's why I'm asking if the law is unnecessary. I think we all agree that the content is good and that it should work well. But I think that society's experience with police releases in the same terms shows that this may be another rule in the countryside, which we are going to establish in the country all that is not carried out. There is no monitoring, and the rules and laws that are unsupervised are unnecessary in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir for this introduction. I don't think there's any need to write laws, although we can quite agree that it's not always possible to be on that shift. I wondered if we should have a quick fine on South Coast Road because the police are having such a hard time being there. You can ask yourself all these strange questions. I think this is just an additional act of nature protection law in Iceland. We've seen something like that. in road transport, hundreds of thousands of people are damaged. It is damage, as in so many things, that will never be replaced by money. Although trash may not be quite the same as it does, I think it is very important that those who are caught in the trade to leave waste in the country share in the cost of cleaning it, since society is always involved. I mentioned the people in the country earlier, and they clean up after more than themselves because there are always some who leave garbage. Of course, accidents in the highland area, such as in other places where people forget garbage or they blow off or something like that. It is important that this law infiltrated this large law on nature protection in Iceland. Yet, the basic theme of all who have participated in this brief discussion here is that we ourselves have to be responsible for the way we walk in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u72	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the rules of timers, in short, that the law declines and the clock costs are canceled. Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen of Leví Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Þordur K. Gunnarsdóttir. It's simple, and that's why I'm not going to have a very long story about it. The bill simply assumes that a plunger charge will drop out completely in two stages, half from next year's and completely from January 1, 2021. That price is a child of its day. It is very difficult to deal with business matters, both individual and business, with property. This is primarily a price for business with a fixed portion of property, i.e. Real estates and ships. For the council there is a case or, at least, plans to take out a time on a ship as well as a plan for a significant reduction in the timeliness due to individual housing, the first to buy at least. This is simply a suggestion that the step be taken to the full and that the plunger charge be removed. The price does not reflect in any way the government's cost of holding on to the registration of these companies. It is an obstacle to business, making the sale of individual property more costly, and the disappearance would therefore be a welcome stimulation for the real estate market as it is today. This also discriminates companies according to the function. It's paying a special tax on business with property, a company in which we can say, capitalism, real estate and business with a fishing ship or a shopping ship, and so the cost is very variable in general. Of course, it is worth keeping in mind, too, that in recent years taxes have been raised very much in both businesses and employment. This year it is estimated that the state has about 120 billion on account of a higher taxation rate than it did in the past decade, before significant tax losses were taken, which were designed to finance government funds in a major economic decline. They were criticized at that time for being very burdensome for both home and employment at a critical point, but the argument was that tax collectors had become so dejected in the collapse that it was necessary for the State to raise taxes as much as it was to witness to make ends meet. Now, the fact is, however, that the current government is to support these tax increases. All taxes have been here to a maximum, maximum yield, in recent years without any significant tax decline. And although tax reductions are presented in a budget bill by 2020, there are some tax increases, so the net changes are very low. This is a simple operation to reduce taxes on both individuals and businesses, and at the same time take advantage of the opportunity to eliminate the tax that is known to be unfair, the discrimination of businesses by business practices, the discrimination of individuals according to property, of course, we do not pay taxes on individuals other than property, for example. We do not place taxes on stock transactions, even if there are enterprises that are primarily committed to real estate. Therefore, I simply believe that this taxation is a time error and that it has long since come to an end. I'm not going to have any more words on this matter and, Madam President, expect it to go to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u73	V.E.G. President. I recommend a candidate's interpretation of the specific service unit for individuals with rare diseases. The case is on the subject. 28 Watching the World 28th Transporters with me have a problem. Senators Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdólna, Halldóra Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gjög Gjörnsdóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Vilmundimur Vilhjálmur, Gunnarsson Kolbrún, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ingi Kristinsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lil Rafney Magnneydótir, Halldorra Mogensen, and Þorgerður Kín Gunnarsdóttir. The motion reads, by permission of the President: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to order a team that allows specific services to be implemented for individuals diagnosed with rare diseases. The Service Unit will make sure that patients have one station in the medical system and that new knowledge and most recent research are provided with a better service based on their most recent knowledge. Then the staff will be assigned to search for ways to ensure simpler and more rapid access to the necessary medication because of rare diseases. The secretary will inform the General of the results of the work group no later than September 1, 2020. The report on the case is so further explained as to the meaning and purpose of such a center, which, in fact, has been made available. Achieving Health Care, No. 40/007, if at any given time, the country has the opportunity to provide the best health care possible for spiritual, physical, and social health. The health system must be equipped to deal with rare illnesses, so that those diagnosed with them will not experience a relapse of the health system. When we want to control such diseases and the more specific and more intensive services in patients with rare diseases, definitions need to be used and cited in a report. Of course, it is important for the work group to consider what should be determined by the service unit here to further the service of this group. According to the definition of the European Medicines Agency, there are rare diseases in English, life-threatening or chronic disability in five or fewer people in every 10,000, which is the basis for the European Economic Area. Knowledge of these diseases is often rare, research on them is limited, and healing is far away. Uncommon diseases have a widespread impact on the environment and increase the pressure with progressive disease. Much to improve the quality of life for those who suffer from rare illnesses and their caregivers. The setting of these individuals must be strengthened, monitored for all rare diseases, and made sure that health care professionals have access to the latest knowledge for their treatments, as well as patients and caregivers. The report includes the following: Refer to EUCERD, the European Union Committee of Experiences on Diseases, published in 2014. It even carries it. dealt with the situation of rare diseases in Iceland, which are about two or fewer in 10,000 people. It also shows that there is no national program for rare diseases in Iceland. However, it says that for the first time in 2012, Iceland was able to send a representative to an EUCERD meeting, which led to an increased awareness of rare diseases in Iceland. However, in this country no specialised centre is active and no formal committee. Therefore, the Synod arrangement suggests that a health minister be assigned to appoint a group of workers who suggest such a procedure. A minister will be given further implementation of the order of the task force, but in order for such groups to reach their goal, the order needs to be viewed both by health experts and by those who are aware of rare diseases. I'm stressing this, and I think it's very important when it's the highest level. Ministerial check out the order of the Outfit. For individuals with rare diseases in many parts of Europe, including the U.S.A. in the North, and in the report I referred to, that's being considered okay. A medical conference to 2030 highlights an efficient service purchase. The aim is that a patient with the highest need for healthcare should be placed in place and that the availability, quality of the service and the safety of the patients should be met. This will highlight the importance of combining services and setting up knowledge centres, suggesting that skills, skills, and knowledge are better combined than overexploiting the requirements. This, of course, is the core of ideologies such as a center for patients with rare diseases. The 2014 report on the rare diseases published by the European Union also shows that this is a lack of a national programme, as I considered. There is no setting of knowledge here, and to the movers of the proposals, it is very important that we rapidly work on setting up such knowledge site, centres, or anything that embraces this knowledge and ensures that patients get information quickly and safely. The information supply is especially important in this regard, since uncertainty that often exists may be the most difficult. As we look at children with rare diseases and their caregivers, information has been through guides, and individual children, support groups of children and young people with rare diseases or rare syndromes. In the North countries, they have gone further, even further. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. The Copenhagen State Hospital has a special centre for the use of rare diseases in caring for children and adults with rare and complex diseases that may also be attached. Children and adults with rare and complex multiorgan disease are treated with specialized and cross-cutting therapy. It combines knowledge from many sources in the medical field. In Norway, there is a center of rare analysis, Senter for Germane diagnoser, cross-cutting and special centre of national bison providing information, counselling and training courses on several rare diseases. The service there is intended for users, caregivers, and professionals who either have or are affected by rare diseases. It can also direct attention to specialist services for rare diseases without referring to the physician. Healthcare providers are aimed at monitoring and communicating the results, participating in studies and development of research networks, participating in education, providing counselling and sharing expertise in health institutions and other services. Sweden has an information center on such rare diseases. It is the goal of increasing awareness and knowledge of such diseases. Finland also has such a center that is rooted in a university hospital in Helsinki. The facility was formed to promote the diagnosis, research, and treatment of rare diseases. It highlights links, telecommunications, cooperation with various patient groups and health - care representatives. Transporters of the proposal assume that on the work team, these models will be looked forward to and considered how to implement them in the country. The key issue is that there is a specific unit that responds to the observed events, directs patients, and ensures that they do not experience nuclear relapses in the health system. This idea, rather than perhaps most of the others, a respectable president, has come not just from heaven to my head, but, originally, after a total meeting with the mother of Sævarsson Þór Savardsson, Hulda Björk Svansdóttir, who brought this up. She wanted his fight to be useful to others who were struggling with rare diseases. Þór is seven years old and has a rare and incurable muscular disease called Duchenne today. Most of those who have had this disease end up in a wheelchair at about 9 to 12 years of age. My friends who have such degenerative diseases, Björgvin Björgvinsson and Þórey Rut, the daughter of Jóhannesdóttir, had this meeting, but they are naturally burning for the boy's fight. We've also observed many of Hulda's battles through the media, and with the permission of a president, I'm allowed to evict her at one interview. It's not supposed to be that way to give the headline, and it even shows up. after Ægir Onggis Þór, they have tried to get a Drug Administration Committee to accept the medicinal product etexilate in an effort to slow down the progress of the disease. It has proved to be effective for a particular group. Not everyone is receptive to this medicine, but it is in an experimental phase. Special legislation in the United States allows this to happen. They experienced a certain injustice in not trying to do everything possible, so you show understanding, but this certainly is not undisputed, and it has to do with moral standards. Therefore, we make the suggestion that the work group appreciates the pros and cons of such legislation so that we can only look at it from that standpoint. In this country the availability of medicinal products is largely dependent on the Marketing Authorisation of the Marketing Authorisation. In 1st. 7. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription prior to launch of the medicinal product. However, in accordance with 7 mg, the Marketing Authorisation requirements can be given to a physician responsible for the responsibility of the Marketing Authorisation. 7. these songs. This is especially true when marketed medicines are temporary or medicinal products are still present in clinical studies as detailed below. Individuals with rare medical conditions may therefore need to be confident that their application for submission from the Marketing Authorisation requirements will be agreed. There have been cases of rejection of the application for medicinal products that have shown good results in the treatment of rare diseases. In such cases, there are few resources and availability of necessary medical care. The Right to Try Act, a law on the right to try, was adopted in the United States on May 30, 2018. It allows individuals with rare medical conditions to receive medicinal products that are still under investigation, so their use is the responsibility of the patient, as discussed with their physician. Such legislation is, as I said, a respectable president, not a disintegration at all, and the movers consider it necessary to weigh the pros and cons of such legislation and to compare with existing legislation on the land, and to draw out in such a way what recommends, or against, such. In this regard, the moral questions that such legislation has to do with and how much responsibility can be placed on physicians in the absence of marketing authorisation. On the other hand, it may be very difficult for people with rare illnesses to be deprived of medicines that could significantly improve their living conditions. Therefore, the proposal is considered to be important to the staff. were assigned to investigate the availability of necessary medicinal products in neighboring countries, assess the benefits and defects of this procedure, and, depending on events, provide suggestions for changes to the current routine so that the patient's interests will always be priority. At the end of my talk, I want to thank my associates for their support. Hv. paritaprevir Unfortunately, Þór Gunnarsson, who is also a doctor, was unable to attend the discussion, I especially thank you for a very helpful introduction to the progress of the situation and at the very best. One minister of health for showing understanding and support. We have a good health system, but it can be improved for a long time. Otherwise, at the council, I hope that we will do our part by accepting this proposal and thus stress that we will improve the quality and service of those who have rare diseases. I hope so. The welfare committee puts the matter under control and therefore will see to 2nd. and payment at the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. " Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's representative for recommending the necessary and timely proposal and which I support in my mind. It goes on to appoint a working group to assess this setting and to see if we can improve it to some extent in the light of local circumstances. Hv. A senator pointed to similar services in neighboring countries with different appearances, ranging from being the only public hospitals to being special centers. I'd like to hear some of it. In view of the fact that there are 330,000,300,000 people here, it comes to the point that individuals may get sick and need support, perhaps walk between Heródes and Pílatus before a diagnosis is confirmed and receive another process that is often difficult. That's what I think. A senator's aim should be to open up a special institution or is it normal to associate this with any of our fine health facilities in this country? It is the closest thing to looking to a land hospital in that regard. In this area, the population is the largest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of the Brjánsson Thomson for an important question. I have little in general knowledge of these matters and perhaps insufficient insight into our excellent health systems, which I trusted to say is quite good at many standards. It's a medical specialty. We do not have many who are specialised in this regard. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson felt that there was one doctor who had specialised in this field who is a rare disease. Then there is the discussion of the size and the number and what we can do when we are gathering various kinds of knowledge. This may not necessarily be local. The most important thing is that we create a scene, but this is, of course, why I put it in the Senate arrangement for us to get a working group in which knowledge of these matters and the health systems are the best. Especially is it important for those who are dealing with these diseases to participate in this group of work on how this will be best, so that we can make sure that we gather knowledge, latest research, new drugs, and can give answers quickly and safely about these many different rare diseases. I went over the way it is, for example. correspondent in the North. In most parts of Europe, it is much longer than it is talking about much larger communities and more who have this knowledge. But this requires that the work force be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u76	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for excellent answers. These are not simple subjects, but they may be clear. But isn't it also important that we associate with all aspects of health care, from the most important factors I consider to be the health care and the whole thing? Because it is the health care, the close - up service that we often discuss as the first stop that needs to be done very well, although it is quite clear that these rare diseases are not on the person or who would be dealing with. One subject in this context is pharmaceutical and drug related factors. It is easy to identify parents with young children who become ill and who do not feel the solution to their problems. People seek advice and seek drugs that may not have been accepted. It's like a whisk. A senator came in, considered moral matters, and is also a financial challenge. But I would like to include it here in this discussion, so I would like to ask: Have you thought about its cost to people who would start opening for, e.g. unconventional medicines or medicines not authorised? This could have a significant cost. There is, however, a guarantee that if applied to some extent, there will be an exception today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u77	President. Thank you. A member of the body of elders, both suggestions and questions that are very important to this matter, will come up with a group of employees who are holding the matter in mind. First, I would like to say that today, of course, we try to provide the best health care for all who are dealing with diseases and who have no doubt about it. So it is important to link all factors like what to do. There's a senator coming in. Now we've got a what? A senator more experienced in the health sector of his previous job than I ever do. I think you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that we have to look at this on the basis of our knowledge, the one that is already there, and see how we can share in international cooperation, and I'm sure that there is one there today. But there we should look to the medical clinic, to the hospitals, and to how we can set up such a center or field. The most important thing is that the patient experiences that he is being held in this area and that the availability will not result in the fact that he will always have to fight for every item in the event of a problem, which will always be because people who are dealing with diseases that we have not mastered medically need to ask for all information and ask questions. Then it is important that we have a process, some field where we can secure access to information and answers. With regard to the cost, I have not been particularly involved in it, and of course, this is an exception today. But it's always a moral matter. Therefore, it is the request that this group of workers assess the pros and cons and take into account moral issues so that we may also be able to further our knowledge of the subject here at the Lawgiver's discretion to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-16-19.u78	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a member of the Parliament's resolution, Willum Þórsson, and the officials very much for the proposal that is being made here today. For an individual or one with a child diagnosed with a rare condition that is not even known, and no experts working with it in this country, it is a huge step by someone putting his arms around his business and looking for the best way to deal with the disease, treatment, apply for privileges, see what is going on in the world, keep research, and so on. What a joy it is to discuss this in the course of health care to the year 2030! It beats that the case should flow through the system quickly and well. The duplication proposal will establish a working group that will suggest the format of specific services for individuals diagnosed with rare diseases. I understand that it is not a matter of starting such a group but of forming a group and finding the best way to make the best use of a unit. As noted in the case of a transporter, this arrangement is known in the countries around us, and of course it is helpful to apply the knowledge found in it, to find the image, and to continue working with it. A moving man entered into this matter, fought a family, and then mainly the mother of Sævarsson, Þór Hulda, Huldar Björk, the daughter of Svansdóttir, for his own business and to present them. What I find very strong in this matter is that there are always individuals, luckyly few, who have rare diseases, but not everyone who has families who have energy, energy, and the strength to run things like this. I think it's very beautiful to think at Hulda's place that others can use her work and her backland to do good for others who may find themselves in a similar situation. I think it's very nice to see that work start. Of course, there are many large groups around us who have been on the lead in this work and deserve all credit for it. I take it in particular because I was dying to be a cohesor of this matter. I'm a deputy senator, however, and I came in on Monday, but the senator I'm working on is not gonna be able to do it. I'm in the mind and heart of this and thank the good people for doing it. There is an interpolitical agreement on this, in which the matter is given to people of all council groups, who are very happy. The interpretation proposal goes to a welfare committee and I agree with a carrier, I hope she has a shot and a way through it and immediately comes to the minister so that they can continue working on the case and form the staff.
