ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u1	Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him on this matter, it's very important that we get the right data to assess the impact on the various aspects of society. What I wanted to come through a little bit. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. How Would You Answer? mg, by permission of the President: For an intermediate period of time, it is important to continue building the resistant economy to the fluctuations by building property... ~ The building of property - I especially call attention to it. I think this is being referred to a national fund or I wonder if it might be. I don't think I heard an opinion. Under these circumstances, would it be reasonable for a senator to abstain from plans for a national fund and to use the funds intended for infrastructure and investment? It has been observed that there is now a considerable amount of money to be paid, e.g. From land induction, which is thought into that fund. Would it be wise to put them aside and make use of the money that a government fund comes into dealing with the down cycle by promoting the economy through its investments and infrastructure? It'd be nice to have an opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u2	Mr. President. With regard to the national fund, it sounds like it's getting a lot of trouble, just like I do, but at a closer look, it's not like this one's advice. For some surprising reason, a common resource is profiting from the sea resource. It's very strange that every time the fishing road needs to get some special treatment from the government. Second, it is very critical that the National Fund should be with privates at the same time that the Councilman can well care for the management of such a fund. Third, which may be the big question of what? A senator: What is the need for some national treasure when we are going through the recession we see? Most would agree to use the terms of the government's budget to match the rhythm of the economy, which is correct. When the demand for a private market is drawn together, the government is expected to enter, as it were. It's very strange that here is a willingness to set aside some kind of national fund at the same time that we have simply a fund called a government fund that can accept the gain that comes from energy resources and other resources to meet the tragedy we're going through. Then, finally, I remind of the so - called values of the law on government finance, sustainableity, caution, stability, firmness, and transparency. This is going very well, but how sad we are to meet all those values, especially in discussions about financial policy! The financial policy has not been sustainable, careful, steady, or testifying to firmness and transparency. We seem to be going back on this, Mr. President, and I wanted to draw special attention to it at the end of this counter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u3	A respectable president. Tonight, we continue to talk about the change in the financial policy of the government in the left-green, independent category and forwarding group, the 17-month-old government, a 14-month financial policy that has already begun to be revised. The government set a lofty goal at the beginning, but it is forced to reevaluate its requirements, the criteria she gave her, to be said to be almost blind - blind, even though warnings were given. There was a drumming with an unrealistic spending statement, we know that. Everyone was supposed to have everything. I've said this earlier tonight that we were not necessarily the most popular campaign campaign people ever had. We learned that we were not promising enough, but we wanted to make a promise and promise that we could keep that promise. But an unrealistic spending promise was incomprehensible. All were to receive everything, and members of the administrative home were and have been diligent in speaking only at the top of the stage of their own excellence and achievements. There's nothing wrong with my opinion of showing ambition, but when it comes to financial policy, we have to call for real and reasonable reasons. Mr. President. There comes a time when, no matter how much we believe in anything else, our blessed reality bites us in the ass. Although we keep saying the sky is green, he won't turn green, Mr President, no matter what we try. We are in the same situation as in other matters - I'm not going to mention the craze in this context, even though it is appropriate - repeatedly pointing to the elephant in the room regarding financial policy, its basis, and its financial strategy's failure and failure. As a result, we have heard and have been quite evicted for being pessimismal and a little pampering. We have maintained that language in the debate on the Prime Minister's debate on finance policy, 2018 and 22022, on financial and financial matters. We've held this up and put it in uncivilized inquiries. We haven't had any answers there, as normally has become foreign in that town. We have identified this in special discussions, at the council, in interviews in most media, in front of articles, in open meetings, and so forth. We have repeatedly said that there is a need for a responsible economy that is built, not in clouds and wishful thinking, but in fact and in real life. We know we live in a swinging economy. We have a unstable currency, and I hope I don't catch anyone with that vital information. This is a fact, even undisputed. In this room, however, we agree on how to solve the problem, let's just call it what it is, from the miserable economic rhythms we have to deal with on about every ten years. Despite the repeated fluctuations, the miserable economic swings that go up and down, it is as if we don't always want to learn from the swings ahead. These are the flukes we know are the worst damage to the homes of the country, the people who are day - to - day trying to support themselves in the next month's match, and are trying to plan, for example. summer vacation right now. It was also mentioned only earlier in education. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur came in on her earlier. It's important, but you don't see enough decisiveness about how we're going to deal with education - taking the loan that's been sustainable for a few years, how we see education and financial contributions grow as we're going to build innovation, sceptre companies and, above all, letting them become viable so that new creations and starters can be built. You can't do that unless you start talking seriously about the economy. This must be combined; education, innovation, and then the economic environment as such. This was a secondary view, but this is what we see out of financial policy. She's not ambitious enough in this area. We must be afraid to take further steps to the future regarding the construction of valuable jobs within the colony and the wand. You can do that, but you need to be more motivated. Mr. President. It has not always been the most fun of all to be a certain party wreck in this, but a friend is a joke. The government has known all along that this day, the day when they have to back from their own financial policies and have the proposed changes to cope with the down cycle that now crosses and was predictable. They simply decided not to do until they needed to do so. It is, in my opinion, nothing more than a certain inadequacy. It has lacked political courage to meet the economic challenges we face and have been facing throughout the terms of the term. Countless experts have warned of this situation, and I work hard to listen to them. The leaders were always too optimistic. Dental toothache does not disappear by temporarily refusing to go to the dentist. You may be able to take aspirin for a few minutes, but the problem just grows, and the account goes up as long as you wait. This is known by bitter experience, and this should be understood by the nation's greatest rulers. Homes have learned a lesson, so have professional life, but government matters are not. We also know that the reason - I'm stressing that there's nothing wrong with reevaluating financial policy, moving when certain economic events are met, and the basis for the law on financial reform is met. But let's say things as they are, things were way too steep. It was not possible to listen to specialists or social advice from many parts of the community, but the government had to be held together. We know, because only recently the government came into being, everything went crazy among the left greens and, of course, had to be sure that they had their spending requirements fulfilled as soon as possible and were started at the same time as men went to lower taxes. It is the toxic combination that we have repeatedly pointed out that large increases in economic spending and declines at the same time in taxes or fishing costs as we have experienced in the best of the government's best friends. The government had to make time. Left greens needed time to calm their people, and they've done quite well. That's what we have to say, the government hasn't faced it. All right, we are now facing this adjustment arrangement, and let us then highlight the viewpoints that must be borne out according to Article 10. it's a government law. It says that financial policies can be revised for economic failures, national years, or other circumstances, which are impossible to handle with available resources. So this is not a small decision or a change. It is strange, and I stress that no member of the council, no one from the left green -- fortunately we have received an answer from the others. The chairman of the budget board who has brought in very grammatical applications. I wonder, though, why have the left green and the government lead group not come up here and explain what this means, including for the welfare system? What's going on? Is it a rose to talk about cuts, what cuts, and don't you think it's best to get straight instead of bringing them a few days and weeks later? You should learn from this experience. When government financial law was passed in 2015, the highest power came to be. The president is part of the discussion. He said that a reexamination of 6th degree might be made. The law that covers the baseline financial policy. So, with President's permission, he said: It would also be nice to try words 6. new from the experience of the demented years before the collapse. I think it should just then say that it would be forbidden to say nothing about public financial matters, that should be watched and listened to, they were usually telling the truth and the right thing. If the gauges said people were running into a ditch, they'd probably be running into a ditch. So his words are, in my opinion the next Colombian in view of the position we find today, not to watch the gauges, not to listen, and have at least driven the tire into a ditch, as unfortunately the Russian community star did in the Moycians last night in such a tragic way. In my opinion, we have to face up to the fact that we can't be spinning up some stability. We need forethought and we need responsible management. We owe the people that we choose, that we make a realistic promise, that we learn from history. They must not be classed as the highest of tens and hundreds of billions, as it was done before the last election, receive most votes. We have worked hard to praise only what can be achieved because it is the best way to benefit households and companies in the long run. We're in Reunion, we want to challenge the old political conservatives to the right and left, and their methodology on the hill, and we're doing it, including. by criticizing the methodology established by the government on the contribution of this financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u4	Mr. President. Hv. A senator names two things I only want to ask her in. She mentions the pink elephant and then the optimism. I'm saying that we can't discuss the government or the economy unless we discuss the dollar because the dollar gives us high cost. I told earlier tonight that I could imagine it's hard enough to be in Iceland's business, although there's not a lot more involved in being some sort of currency experts at the same time. We can see that the crew of the Crown is on the basis of this policy of remaining unchanged for the next five years. This is remarkable in view of history, since no OECD has experienced so much fluctuations in the real cost of currency as Iceland has in the past 15 years. Within the past 12 months, the level of the cent's survival has decreased by 13%, but the decrease in the score of the crescent product, of course, affects the value of the imported product to about 13%. 1/3 in this respect. As long as we have the crown, we will not be able to expect stability in the government. I'd like to have some more speculation. The senator's concern, the way she envisions the development of a success in this blessed country, and whether it's soon time for us to take a serious and deep discussion about whether we should take up another currency. I have said that it is neither stupid nor coincidence that 19 countries in Europe have adopted euro, and then it might be particularly convenient in the case of Iceland that much of our business takes place in euros and on the other hand in Danish crowns which are then tied to the euro, is actually euro with the Danish queen. It will be interesting for the Senate to hear the question of the currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u5	Mr. President. One of the most urgent and important things is that groups of people who have an opinion that the Icelandic crown should be submitted and taken up the euro were very high, not being silenced, not only by some loophole and triviality, but by many other things, such as the fact that this is never a part of the program. This matter will never be planned unless we talk about it so that our responsibility is very great, that we will continue to discuss how we want to build up long - term stability so that we can, in fact, keep up - to - date stability so that we can. Build up an environment in which a dollar has ceased to produce Icelandic companies who are at international competition for some kind of damage. Happily, today's Icelandic authors in society are pointing to this. I encourage those in the wand and pioneer business to continue. What you get to hear when talking to them, the point they're most complaining about is that they don't have the stability they get through foreign coins. It's no coincidence that Iceland's big companies in the fishing field, the aluminium industry, and the largest tourism companies are all wearing a lot different coins from the Icelandic crown. They are protected from economic fluctuations, not from the public, not from SMEs who are under pressure to live on the crown. Who's my message to? The senator and us who are in this room and who want to have the courage to discuss long-term economic stability? They are that we must continue to discuss taking up another currency and taking the steps needed to give future generations the opportunity to choose their future to live and live on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u6	Mr. President. I agree with those words. If we are to succeed, we Europeans need to be high and higher. We can't accept that the front line in Icelandic politics is about the EEA deal. It should be about whether or not to enter the European Union. I also find it interesting during the discussion to promote who can profit from having the crown. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are people who benefit from this instability, which, on the other hand, can protect themselves from it and on the other hand, profit from the crown. We see that interest is higher in Iceland because of the dollar, because the dollar is always at risk. She's always abducted because she's a weak currency. The price of money is the price of words. When is it good to have a high interest? It's when you have money. For the owner of the money in Iceland, the dollar can be quite a currency, for interest is high, and then he gets the insurance on top. He's loyal. He's got belts and bracelets. These are the interests that have spent the crown. But ordinary people, the big mass in the community, do nothing but lose their Icelandic crown. It shows history, and it doesn't need an astrophysicist to prove it. I don't see any fairness in the fact that a Þorsteinn of Samherja is allowed to settle in the euro at the same time that the fish farmer working for him gets his salary at the cost of every month. I don't think that's fair enough. I think this is one of the big questions involved in foreign affairs, but especially how we improve the standard of living in Iceland, i.e. how we get rid of the crown. It took Slovenia two and a half years to record euro. After EU Member State may receive access to a so-called ERM II i.e. European currency business. The government needs to be about Six months in there, two years to go. So after two and a half years, if we want to, we can have a European, a real currency that offers stability, but somehow we have to make that decision. It is a big decision, and we need to prepare it well, but now it is simply enough with this blessed crown. [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic crown is numbered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u7	Mr. President. Yes, I do, but it is perfectly clear that while we have the stationary government that we live in, which is good and good, it is designed to protect certain interests, and they are even more determined to defend them, we will live on the Icelandic crown. That's why I think it's so important when you're worried that there's a set-up, a popu list board or whatever you want to call it, they're flying, and then there's the European election. Everyone assumed that the Biffitses and all of them would roll over everything, but the people got up. People are persecuting the deliberation, the weirdness of democracy that occurs, of fact, of the bullshit that has been presented, and as a result, they said: "No, this is no longer the case. They also began to talk about serious matters that are important for young people, whether they are currency, cooperation, especially in climate matters, and working groups like greeners who are highly internationally minded everywhere but here, wanting to enter Europe very deep, are as they call, with the permission of a president, ◯remainists, e.g. correspondent in Britain The same thing was true by liberal Democrats there, they went for the weather, even being more votes than the Bgret party of the Farges, but due to an unjust voter exchange, that group received more council seats. Speaking of a ballot exchange, it may be part of the fact that there will be practical changes in currency and that there will be changes in systems that involve a particular built-in injustice, i.e. To get started by changing the economist system in this country and equal voting rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. I'm going to be on the lines that turn in the opposite direction. Hv. A senator rightly says that such a course has not been prevented and adds that there is nothing wrong with reevaluating a course. That's exactly what they're doing here. A reexamination of current policy is being made. Then you may say that, after all, and why. A member of the council explained that the restoration was constantly warning against developing a course based on sand, or whatever the case. Yet, a senator said that it had been a weak premise, they were the practical predictions we were making. Now this situation has changed very quickly, and I agree with it. A senator that it is wise, as with these challenges, to respect their baseline values, to reevaluate policy, and to respond progressively without going against baseline or affecting the balance of the economy, not exaggerating the pace. The big news about this is, in fact, that the frame of trust is being trusted, and in part, it has been critical of restoration. We've got an uncertainty vector based on policy, and we're reacting to criticism, including, Money council, through the years, not being on the floor of the policy and on this straitjacket so called. I don't have a direct question, but I say that it must make more sense to have a course and to revise it in order to fail when the premises fail. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u9	Mr. President. I discussed earlier that I do not condemn the government because I react but, in my time, have placed the binoculars for the blind eye. Regardless of the economic situation in the Habitat, other people had repeatedly warned about this, strongly, almost all people who could have listened, and the government does from time to time when it would be convenient. In fact, this morning I heard a very good interview at Channel 2 in the economics of Arazon's bank, which I thought was more likely to refer to the most pessimistic projections of the Secret Bank than to the most optimistic. There's a very important aspect of the air that I encourage the government to take seriously today. Don't make the same mistakes you made last time. I just have to understand that it was a matter of determination, of flirting politics, and of course politics, how they react to weaknesses, how they are viewed each time. It's just a dancing political bitch. But the way economicism was set out, it was determined to keep the government together because classes like the left greens were initially stressed. It was very agitated, and everything had to be put on a boating trip. It was warned not to go into an economic rise with a complete and similar reduction of taxes and costs, such as hunting costs. It is this toxic mixture, which includes. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson has repeatedly pointed out. We don't get tired of saying it, so I'll just say it again - because it's not. A senator is chairman of the budget board, and the committee is in the good hands of the good senator: don't make the same mistakes. Correct the court of the government. It's the role of the budget board. Listen to these experts and warnings. In the end, economic stability is much more important than the lives of the government alone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u10	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what they're doing here. A review of policy is being made in order to preserve the economic progress that has been achieved and the stability and baseline value to which we are looking at level 6. and financial advisers will likely give us a review. The big news is the uncertainty curve. Hv. A senator mentions the Secret Bank and a pessimism projection. If the foundation now works worse on this revised policy, then more space is available than before, so we are learning to work with the law and to improve the process. It's right in front of you. That's a lot of news. Then it is that although the maintenance phase was low, it grabs three fourths of this sudden downturn, so, no, it will not be going on the welfare system or on the sick. That's about it. 10 billion people who need some adjustments in investments or so on. We on the budget have not been allowed to see it permanently, but the remainder takes it to three quarters, and there is a balance between income and paying in this direction. It looks for sustainability and stability, so there's certainly a review of the current policy, about sustainability and stability, and then, of course, why we're in a position to do this right now. This is because we have been able to pay off debt, reduce growth rate, and watch long - term sustainability. That's what needs to be done. As soon as we face this rapid downturn, we need to look at sustainability for a long time, and that's why we're getting this on zero, balanced between paying and earning, and make an uncertain gap if this goes on worse and without exaggerating the fluctuations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers remains that what raises my questions, because economicism was so ill prepared, the one who is now revising and changing, despite the fact that the government has been warned many times, is this uncertainty. I would've wanted more discussion about that. Is this just a new expression of Icelandic fiscal and financial policy to contribute eventually to the laxness that the government needs to yield to what it considers to be political rights at any time? Is this not an economic conservative device, a device primarily for dealing with economic rhythms, etc., but primarily for the political practicality of each government? So my opinion remains to be answered sufficiently. Even though I know my mind isn't. A senator is good at this, but he must say as it is from 17 months'experience with this government, so I'm more afraid that this will be a political tool rather than an economic restraint. It's a little hard to get no speeches on the part of any senators in order to say, " What does this mean? ' I liked that. A senator now revealed that the welfare system of this downturn would not be cut down, especially in those who are ill. What, though, does it mean that the maintenance level of government funds should not be increased in recession or resolution? Is it being said under a rose that basic business is further reduced? I would've wanted to know where. I'm not necessarily criticizing, I'd just wanted to know where, that we were gonna talk straight about what we're gonna do. Are we going to lower the taxes in homes and businesses, which I believe are not reasonable? Are we going to go to big, important investments, which I think is also reasonable? [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen to basics? The question has not been answered on the part of the government, and it is remarkable that the government's leadership party has not been in pontu all day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to defend my second speech in a discussion of financial policy to consider why this review of financial policy was completely predictable and why it was being warned at its time when it was placed in an unrealistic fashion and why the current policy being discussed is equally unrealistic and is still based on all too optimistic economic leaders. Let's start with a warning at the fall of last financial policy. A real success was here at the climax of 2017, and it was a warning about a current financial policy that could be counted into the last four economic rhythms as high as the real real - life points, which all ended with good - looking corrections, failures, inflation, and subsequent economic corrosion. For example, when the economy is up and growing, pay is increased, pay is increased largely, money is increased more easily, the level of value is increased further, the level of value is increased, and the government's budget is fueled by high - cost spending is further increased, until the success insurance is undermined by our exports, is lost eventually, the inflation takes place, the private consumption is combined, and eventually it has to be combined in the financials as it increases further ablation rate. This is the repeated Icelandic economy that we don't seem to learn much from. This is exactly what's going on here another trip. That is why we have to face up to the fact that the downtrodden we are starting to sail into now will be more serious than expected. We will see the secondary consequences of the fall by increasing inflation and the bad state of exports that have not yet recovered and that we can see. What best is the declaration of the amount of tourism itself, which has been the driving force in our economy in the past decade or so, there is nothing that can be seen to the better. On the contrary, we can see that in spite of expectations that there would be an increase in the fall of WOW - what news? Delta risks flight to and from the country during the winter, which was 10% of the supply, e.g. in the America market, which has most of the American market. EasyJet's foreign airline is also decommissioning its supply here this winter. The building market has begun to show signs of cooling. Inflation is still under way. We need to realize that we are leaving for a relatively short time from 2% of inflation to less than 4% inflation. The gang's still getting sick, so we can't see the end of the cold we're in today's economy. We'll see that the private consumption is getting sick. Although the support of the economy is strong, these declines are expected to end and become more serious than expected here. Therefore, it is worth considering the economic policy now to look to the abnormal predictions that the late bank has worked on the potential situation in the economy, if e.g. The weaknesses of tourism become greater, as are all signs of the air. The hanging bank watches in its interpretation to two distinct scenarios that both of them must be considered culminating today, on the other hand, that Bgreit will be so hard without a contract and the UN Bank assessment is that it will translate from 0.4-0.6% less national production in the year in the next three, four years, due to this blow only, and that the contractions of tourism will be greater than the current estimate, which I still consider to be a serious sign of air production and tourism itself believe the same will be the case, in this case, an advantage of 11.71.2% less per year every three to four years. The two parallels one - and - one rates each year in terms of interest. It is a huge blow, and it would translate an increase of goods on a government fund, as well as what is already planned, to one 40 billion a year's increase in the magnitude of the 40,680 billion a year in the financial supply of the state's funds. That's what we're talking about when we say that there's a good reason to be more careful in the money matters than here is. I believe that, especially by the lack of discussion of the greater part of this financial policy, we are going to get rid of the signs of danger like the first and that we are going to be here a year to discuss the new government financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to use this second speech to discuss an unexpected situation that now confronts a government fund that will be in the range of 51⁄28 billion dollars. This is the case with interest. Friday the National Court of a landmark judgment, unprecedented judgment, showed the consequences when the lawgiver does not show enough difficulty in legalization. This will be the case. In January and February 2017, there was no warrant for an insurance agency to cut down their payments on the pensioner's income from a pension fund. It's a lot of money, and it's money that shows how much impairment really happens to pensioners. Whether he will be appealed is not revealed, but he has drawn attention, especially to those who have read him and examined him and I have talked to him, for how well he is convinced and how well he supports what we would like to call in the court, how well he accepts the retrospective laws, the burdensomeness of the citizen, and how well he protects the legal rights of government. In the end, there is a very small chance that the Honorable Supreme Court of Iceland can effectively reverse such rationalizing as the due judgment of three men on Friday. That's why I say it makes me very happy to find and to see the security we are now experiencing with a new land rights. Despite the fact that there must be sadness in this situation when we are talking about down cycleing and that here we lack extra money, and we naturally pondered and have done here today, and even many who are concerned about who will be let go, it is sad to face up to the fact that there we are adding to the rose of 5 billion, absolutely added to the interest, interest, and growth, as well as from January 1, 2017. Despite the events we are facing now, the good news is that despite the problems we've been through here, and we can always face them like this, despite the problems we've been dealing with. Today's secretary of finance, in the platform, said that no one would have to worry that there would be no money to pay if the money involved was to be paid off. That's not to say it's the only thing. It is number one, two and three that the lawgiver got into it with what he is doing, that we get into the business and what it means to make new financial preparations now - in the previous one, there were smiling grounds, the one that is in force now, and, in fact, the same thing with this one. What is lacking completely in it, just as the first, is that nowhere, as I have repeatedly said, should be expected to correct the terms of those with the lowest salary, vote for disability, and of those in the public security system, those who were reduced from all power after failure and who have not yet received correction, one of those in the community who have not received any correction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u14	It is suggested by the president that a meeting may last longer than the Council of Congress. - It's called for votes, and it's at the beginning of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u15	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Minister of Social Affairs and Juvenile Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u16	Mr. President. By permission: ▪ Left European groups share fundamental values about human dignity, peace, universal human rights, and the importance of social protection. They have fought starving policies and the privatization of the Neo-liberalism, demanded monitoring of national capital transport and shutting down taxes, and called for a tax system that counterbalances and incomes to finance infrastructure. ... In climate change and economic instability, bold, forward - looking, and united policy must be established with emphasis on social justice, gender equality, green economy, and international system changes. That's what I said. Prime Minister in a recent foreign textbook It also called for progressive movement and left groups united to initiate radical, progressive, democratic changes, political and social changes. While the left category of articles involves much, it is their duty to work together as a team to seek solutions. I couldn't agree more than that. The prime minister that this is what we need to do to create a more just, peaceful, and more exciting future for all. Nevertheless, this same minister personally chose to form a government with conservative right categories and to justify the constant cooperation by talking about the value of the media and the importance of building trust. So the questions are very simple: Can be highest. Within two minutes, a minister explained the nature of the difference in Iceland and other European countries and why it feels that there is a need for a different sort of grouping work and therefore other control tools and other measures to solve the problems of the population here in Iceland and elsewhere in Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for discussing this fundamental matter, but I do not agree with the assumption he makes at the end of his questions. Do I feel that a three - step tax system with a lower tax burden on low - income workers is a social matter that is relevant to the public? Yeah. Do I feel that for young people who are having children, longer or later would it be important to improve the standard of living for the common people? Yeah. Do I feel that social housing is important to people who have not been able to afford a roof over their heads? Yeah, that's what I think. Do I think it's important to introduce a number of rights? I can mention a bill of sexual autonomy before the council. Last in the news last night, we were reminded of how important it is to improve the legal status of the trans- Intersex people, and hopefully the Council will complete that payment. Yeah, I think it matters. Do I feel that it is important to reduce pay attention to the health system, one of the points presented by the World Health Organization that is one of the major issues of the same time? Yeah. Does it matter to me that no matter what they do, left groups will try to be effective for the public in the country? Yeah, I think so. Is that what I'm talking about abroad? Yeah. Is that what I'm talking about here at home? Yeah. I think that's gonna answer some questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u18	Mr. President. That's where the top is. Minister, completely out of the question. It is probable that left European categories can interact with right groups of compromises there, too, even repugnant. I'm not criticizing everything that's been done here. I think it would have been possible to do more with clean left partners. I'm asking if a minister doesn't think it is, and if she feels that she's most likely to achieve everything in cooperation with the Independence Party. I remind you that the head of the party voted against the women's pregnancy violations in the days and, in addition, has provided a very inhuman bill for foreigners. I must reiterate the question: Is there any laws in Iceland other than in other parts of Europe? Would it not have been possible to make these changes more clear by means of a clean left control? Then perhaps it is proper to mention a wealth tax, resource expenditure, and, of course, a higher capital tax, which is low in Iceland compared with most other European countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u19	Mr. President. I don't agree that I've left the question. I don't agree either, unless your math skills fail, that there could have been a clean left rule after the last election, at least. these eight categories were not followed that way. But, hey. A senator well knows that our classes have worked well together in the past. It was in the days of the government that we raised the capital tax, because of that. A senator asks about it, but he was just raised again when left green got into the government. So I can tell you honestly what to do. Senator: Yes, it's important to get political success, and I believe that we are doing it when we watch the social solutions that have come into existence in the present government. I'm very proud of those solutions. Of course, all classes are found, and I think that it applies to all eight groups here in this hall, that it would be best to be alone in the government, for then they could observe this according to their own heads. This is the nature of the case, and of course, it is easier if clean governments can be formed, but we must look at the results of what comes out of government community service. [[The president calls.]] There I am perfectly consistent with myself wherever I speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u20	Mr. President. Yes, it was an interesting exchange that took place earlier because it matters how men and women within the government employ them. I especially want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how she intends to turn when it comes to Arctic affairs. Finnsson's Árni is a very interesting interview at the reactor right now, in which he reviews it accurately and highlights, as we have also done at the council, that the proclamation of the Northern Secretary of State of State during the days in Finland, some weeks ago, was, in effect, greatly ignored. There was no ambition when it came to environmental matters. I missed not seeing the work of the left green in that statement. Especially after meeting with Pompeo here by the prime minister and focusing on the climate, I would have thought that this had somehow returned to my declaration. On the Arctic matter. It's Icelanders with lead now. It's good, and it's important. How, then, will the prime minister exercise himself in this regard? As the Árni Finnsson points out, there is a serious threat and a major cause of damage, which, in fact, lies ahead of us. Black oil burning in the north. We Icelanders set some boundaries, but how are we going to use ourselves in the Arctic and North Pole? What are we going to do? Are we going to get Americans who are in a complete denial of climate issues? How will we use ourselves in this vital matter? I'm right to hope that the government of Iceland and especially the prime minister will not begin to slip down as has been done, e.g. With regard to the whales, and giving in to independence policy when it comes to climate issues and policy issues. There, the government has returned in my opinion a minimum policy when it comes to climate policy. There are promises, fine, but these are minimal promises of the Independence Party recipe when it comes to climate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I'm going to celebrate the intensity of all blows. A World of Congress has become a climate issue. I find it very positive to perceive the change that has taken place in a church hall to form from the last election. I'm going to interpret it for a reason. Conventioners, on the contrary, are listening to the young generation, as we have for years done in the left green. I'm glad more people are helping us because we're more likely to succeed. It may seem that the policy of this government - well, it may seem to be unappreciative to someone, but it is followed by a considerable international question, in which we look on the 2030 Paris and the 2040 noncarbonization. Especially in the Arctic, it has been announced that a new direction in its affairs - the last one was adopted at the Council of 2011 - will be due to the coming session. I think it's a song, considering that we're going there with management and put special emphasis on it -- we've taken the lead in May, for about ten days, so that's what's happening. A senator may quickly judge the success of Icelanders in that field in ten days, but this may not be surprising. The North Pole and the Chairman's Programme focus on the environment, climate and the sea. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should take this opportunity and get along with me as high as possible. Environment Minister has proclaimed, i.e. No black oil use in Iceland. That's one of those things Árni Finnsson had. A senator, mentioned, has been one of the most zealous spokesmen in the world. It is important that we are taking real steps to succeed when it comes to the sea and the climate. I would say, in view of the great interest I sense in the Senate world, that we should come together to do more. I'm celebrating this phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u22	A respectable president. I think that we Prime Ministers can be happy, and it was especially enjoyable that in the European Parliament, it was green, with a high priority on the environment, and also on the European community, international cooperation, and then liberal democrats across the continents. What a cause for joy that is! I think the highest, too. Prime Minister has to use this body at the council on climate issues. We have to take them seriously, and it does not mean taking into account what other government groups have to say in this matter. There must be a much more drastic step than is being taken. I reiterate my question because it's foreign not to answer - we've been here all winter, and I don't think I've ever had answers to questions that I've been asked to the highest. Prime Minister. I reiterate my question: How will the prime minister use himself in this issue regarding the Arctic? How will it help to reduce the use of black oil in the area that has a profound impact on global warming? [[The president calls.]] How does she intend to put the climate issue seriously on the Council of Arctic rather than to follow the Trump government and its supporters in the United States? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u23	Mr. President. Hv. A senator complains that there are no answers. I got it. I got it. A senator to study the Presidential plan of Iceland that she should now know, be a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In this regard, the goals are clearly set out on climate issues. Hv. A senator speaks of the prohibition on black oil. I reiterate my answer two minutes ago, if any. A senator couldn't get what I said then, about the highest. Environment Minister has declared bans on the use of black oil in Iceland's waters. [[Up front.]] That means Iceland will be in the world's top row as far as it's concerned. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should be pleased to know that Iceland's climate target, at least In the past, governments are more ambitious than EU targets. Perhaps we have an opportunity to take advantage of standing outside the European Union to set our own goals in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u24	President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Prime Minister as the foreman of the government. There are new reports of organized crime in Iceland that are very serious. The Central Party has repeatedly conducted special discussions on the affairs of law enforcement in the country, police and customs, speaking to deaf ears. It has been noted that 80 police officers are missing from shifts in the capital area to do so. Doing diagnostic work, working on preemptive work, doing initiatives, but not much has happened. I'm not going to underestimate what's happened with sex crimes and computer crimes, etc. But it's not a visible law enforcement facility. It's not taking the initiative. There are no officers on duty. It's not hands that clean up when hard orders are made. There are not enough men to do, so training is not the same. There's no premeditated method of research. What the person standing here wants to know, and he asks the prime minister: "What will the government do? It is always harder when a person has to work back territory or work back something that has slided. Sadly, then, organized crime has festered, and it takes considerable effort to reverse that trend. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What will the government do to stop this operation, try to eradicate it? How are the police to be promoted, especially here in the capital area? How to Improve Her Devices How to improve its methods, its preactive, etc.? We're gonna get an answer from you now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for bringing up this report. I agree with what. A senator, of course, is important that we carefully review it and take it seriously. However, I do not agree with the premise. A senator makes it appear that we speak in the form of a deaf ear when discussing threats caused by organized crime. It's not that, anyway. Rather, it is of utmost importance that we approach this matter in a complete way. It is now known that the government decided at its meeting on Friday to specifically review this most recent investigation using representatives of the Ministry of National Security, the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, is a key legal body, which is responsible for police matters, as well as with representatives from the Department of Health and Social Affairs, because we also need to look at the situation as a whole, not only from the crime itself, but the consequences of it. Consider one example, the use of opioids that we discussed quite substantially at a council last year. We can see that this has significantly reduced the prescribing of opioid medicinal products by means of a coordinated program led by the health - care minister. It matters, so we really need to approach it in a more complete way and look at it from different needles. Then I'd like to also say that this case has been on the agenda for national security, for of course it is important. There are representatives of the Generals and three council agents as well as the police, the National Guard and the National Guard. It is also important that we discuss these matters. But I reiterate that we set out a special team to review this report and make proposals for reform, and they will be subject to law enforcement, as well. A senator asks about, but also to other factors such as the health and social systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for an answer that in some respects leads to disappointment. Yes, the highest. Prime Minister, so it has been spoken in the form of a deaf ear because it has repeatedly been mentioned as a means of improvement to law enforcement. Because the National Security Council is mentioned, it is so that in the National Security Council, the governor is missing. In fact, there is a bill for the council that should correct it, and we're talking about the person who may have the most powerful border guard in his unit. We need to deal with this in any way we can. With great respect to the health authorities, and now it is time for everyone to take practical action in law enforcement. Police must be promoted, especially in the capital area, both human resources, equipment, and resources. This has to happen now. I hope, therefore, that when they're talking to each other, they talk fast, and I can assure you of the utmost. Prime Minister that she will not walk alone if she makes the decision to make a good decision on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. The sponsor of a senator. I want to assure him that it will work out what appears in a state police report. It will be done in a complete way. It is important to look to the police and to the toll manager, of course, that is an important part of this. We also see in this report that the types of crimes discussed are very different and not limited to customs managers; they not only concern drugs or menals; they also concern the taxes and things related to taxes. That is why I want to reiterate that we approach this matter in a complete way. I don't think there's one answer to how organized crime should be handled. It's just that these differing systems work together. I'd like to reiterate it for what it is. A senator expects us to have a government response, and these matters continue to take priority for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u28	Mr. President. The economy now has a planned recession and, at the same time, a recession of the government. Surgeon is a natural and predictable consequence, but at the same time, we are exposed to climate and natural warming. The activities of Iceland on climate are important. Though they may be small in the big context, they are not the least ones about showing a good example in the world. We also know that there is a tradition that when you have to cut down, the environment is often among the things that are cut down most. This may be understandable to some extent, since climate management is a difficult and complex problem, and people may want to focus more on focusing on maintaining donations for welfare and other things. So I think it's a good reason to ask the highest question. Minister, especially since we are going to talk about new financial policies later today, whether he has any assurance that Iceland's effectiveness in climate change and the loss of CO2 emissions will not be jeopardized by cutbacks today. If so, what guarantee do we have? How can we be sure that we will succeed? If somehow, money needs to be limited, how would the highest. A minister wants to set priorities for the work that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u29	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that there is, in fact, a monopoly on the financial program that had already been performed in spring when it appeared the first time, so there is something that each minister has to deal with. The way I've decided to go is to try to protect the climate as far as possible and, of course, there's something that's always taken care of when you're living up to where to make it come down. One thing you can do is try to clean up a business, both in the organisations of the advisers and also in the consultants itself, but it is inevitable that some tasks will need to be reduced or delayed, and these are all factors that you can consider in all the problems now. But I can assure you what. A member of the Parliament on the top of climate issues when it comes to spending money and securing results, such as the right. A senator mentioned earlier. What the government has been doing in this regard is putting one project behind another's work, as it were, in the Action Programme. There is a review of the procedure program, as it was immediately announced in the prior head, as we are considering where to go further and we are trying to be even more effective in the case group, which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u30	Mr. President. How good it is to know that climate will remain at the top of the circle! Still, you wonder: " Is there any problem? Now we know, for example. that there has been no success measure related to the government's action under a climate plan. I've called for it to be done a few times, and I'm expecting it to come in an updated plan. However, in view of the lack of knowledge of the effectiveness of these measures, we also do not know how well the funds are spent. In addition, we have a financial program that certainly has a requirement, but there must be an increase in maintenance when a new financial policy takes place. How does all of this play? I know it's the highest. Ministers have a lot of ambition in these matters, but the money side has to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u31	Mr. President. Of course, there can always be problems, but I think we should focus on the approach of these matters as a project. This is a major challenge that we need to meet together, and we resolve the problems that arise. [[Up front.]] The question is, How effective are the measures? It is true that this will be considered, but I would like to point out the EEA report published in April or May which suggests that, despite the fact that nearly all measures in their opinions on the Action Programme are still being made to a substantial improvement in the year 2030 compared to their calculations. I think we're totally on the right track, and hopefully we'll see later in the year's updated schedule, where we can better determine each and every plan or group of action will result in the loss of emissions, as it were. And again, I repeat, it is my will to protect the amount of climate as I possibly can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u32	A respectable president. The bill has now been provided for the change in social services and social security laws, reforms, and management of employment. This is the bill that instead of having a dollar against a dollar, the score will be 65 dollars in return. I say for my part: Yes, a man should thank you for the hunger lice that comes, but I have said, " This is economic violence. ' Instead of kicking them three times in an invalid, only kick them twice. That's not acceptable. On the other hand, 65 dollars across from a cent - was this the promise of candidates for the last election? Was it the promise of the left green and the Independence Party? Isn't that what everybody promised, out with a crown in the convention right away? Then there is another fact in this matter. It is now clear that four billion will be added next year. So it's to be maintained. What's uglyest of all of this is that they're going to take 50% of their human kindness. As a result, those who are born disabled and who are not able to work are reduced by about 50%, but they are trying to survive. They're all right because these people are so bad. They can't take it away. Then I ask a minister, When shall this be taken away, or shall it not be? I want him to inform us if a cent should be received off or if it should be done in such a way that people out there know what's going on. Then there's $25,000. as senior citizens were raised in a pension fund. There is no disability. Most of this is women who are being taken care of for a pension fund. Is this a new policy of equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. As the senator knows and quoted, there is a bill on the program later today that aims to defuse a dollar in return. The senator's words are just as it is being said, that it is being reduced, but it is not completely reduced to zero. I'd also like to say that in that bill, there is an enormously important factor in the development of a monthly calculation, not on a annual basis, which is very positive. What we're doing there is that in the current year, we have a $2.9 billion choice. to improve the quality of the disability pensioner. Of course, it has been clear that we have been waiting for a report of a service group that produced and has been decided that it will be followed up by a bill planned for the next assembly, which will introduce a new social security system in line with the report presented there. We believe it is important that the 2.9 billion that is planned for the event during the current year in budgets are immediately introduced to microenergy pensioners, and they are used with the goal of promoting employment participation. That is what is meant by the changes made. The items proposed and on the bill that will be planned later today aim to take the first steps to encourage increased employment activities. At the same time, we are winning a bill and in a financial program, we expect that next year, as the senator testified, we will be with 1.1 billion, totally unchanged, to the Party. We will continue to use that money to reduce the decline in the system and encourage increased sectoral activity. I hope that's what I do and what I do. A senator would agree that the existing bill and will be discussed later today will certainly do so, encouraging increased business participation because of the loss. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for, unfortunately, very poor answers. He did not answer: Should a penny be received in full? You want to give up a cent against a cent? According to what I understand, I just take it that way, I shouldn't do it. It's not policy. We need to realize that 1%, the remainder of a budget plan, is exactly the number you've been saving up against a dollar since older citizens took theirs out. I hate to talk about a 35-dollar discount, but it's not enough. The cost of going to work is high. It's either taking it properly, doing it properly, not scrambling. The second, it is even more pathetic to betray the promises that were about a dollar in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u35	A respectable president. As I came into my case in the past, it is clear that we have 2.9 billion for this year's provision to improve the quality of biofuels. The thought behind this bill is to take the first steps to decompose, and that is certainly true. I think me and what. Surely a senator can agree that this is a positive step. However, as I came in earlier, there is a door to putting a bill on the next legislature that aims to introduce a new social security system. Then we will be able to develop the specific payment categories - because, in fact, only certain categories - what the system will do for the future and how there will be cross-cutting. It will be revealed when we turn it up a bill and we put it on the bill. But I think we can be happy, because this is truly a step toward delinquency and motivation to get a job, a step proclaimed by all the government groups. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We will continue on the same path and encourage increased participation in the job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u36	Mr. President. The spread of unsuspecting fish is increasing. Also growing is the development of large productions of fish marketd fish, which are then exported uninhabited to work in other countries, with the result of land fishing crops that depend on buying raw materials on markets. All over the country, fish farms in this facility are in a business problem due to the shortage of raw materials and their superiors. Some of them must resign and even stop business if they do. This may be the case with the practicality and economic benefits of the country. I'd like to ask the highest. a sea secretary whether he is concerned about this trend and whether there has been a discussion about the situation with a local minister and the labour market minister on development and the number of jobs involved. Also, I would like to ask the highest. Secretary of the sea, whether to review it at the highest level. The financial and economic secretary's contribution to the cost of working fish for export is compared to the value of exports produced by unexploited fish, effects on land production and income of state funds and rural society. The highest. Don't Ministers agree with me that there is a bad trend here and that there is need to be a solution if fish productions that trust in fish markets are meant to survive?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u37	A respectable president. I have heard a discussion about these materials, about the problems that may be created because there may be too much export at times for a certain part of the fish industry in the country. On the other hand, there are various aspects of this subject. Make-ups of all sizes, especially, would I have thought, small and medium-sized, also enjoy it in their recovery if prices are high. I've heard that there are also foreign buyers who are buying fish for exports in Icelandic markets, so the subject of lying down is quite complex. If the reality is that we see a great deal of changes in the fish industry and in the number of jobs in the country, it is probably a matter of considering this. But in this regard, I must say that this is a combination of different factors. I know, for example. To that, though it were but the smallest of the designs, that they have enjoyed that the price has taken on some species from time to time depends largely on supply and market demand. To answer a question, why? A senator, to see if I've handled the case with my three fellow minister, we haven't done it in a certain way. We've discussed this, some of them, on the run, but not at a formal meeting or anything like it. To me, the subject is not big enough to require a detailed analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I have to disagree with him that this isn't about the size of the problem that we have to lie over it. We'll see in the fishing villages that this is important. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister - let's just say it to the highest level. Ministers take care of the matter and discern the situation - whether it is possible to strengthen the very important fish market in some way, e.g. by obliging a quarter to go through the market. It is more about mopping, not forming perimeters, as is happening right now at the markets. Or whether some kind of incentive could be offered to get the full force out here in the country, the fact that the increase and the plus for national preparation is much greater if we work the fish here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u39	A respectable president. Yeah, it's been happening from time to time. Most of us here who have observed fishing have likely been exposed to the stress of the seagull fish, a exported fish. The debate is now being made about buying foreign parties in Icelandic fish markets that won the competition of Icelandic fish industry. As a result, we realize that if we are going to become more involved in the fishing market, we are going to set limits on who can shop in the fishing market. One way in this context and I stress that when we discuss these factors, we need to examine both the way we're working and the fish process in the overall context of how we're going to contribute to a country that all agree on, but just as much as how we're going to make sure that we get the highest possible price for the materials we're going to get from the sea at one time. That's basic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u40	Based on tradition and interpretation, a protocol is not required to provide a specific length of meetings, as should be done during the work programme. But there is a room to be hired, and if there is a disagreement as to whether a meeting can be held today, while a program is in effect, it is probably a matter of enforcing it, so the proposal of a president will come in vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u41	Yes, Mr. President. I'm not in a lot of trouble. So on the program of this meeting, there is a big issue that is the government's financial policy until 2022. A discussion about it will, of course, take some time. I think it's only natural that a meeting can last longer than before. Twenty, but not until the night. If the highest. I'll be on the green button and back it up. But if it's planned to continue a discussion about the government's financial policy until 2022 all night, when there are no contracts and enough time to cover that important matter, I'll be on the red button.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u42	President's not going to give a damn. Councilmen advise on how they vote for this vote. The president looks at a program consisting of 46 cases, and he was president, though optimistic, not sure that the time would be enough for us to do. To complete that long program, 20 o'clock tonight made it clear that there was a need for a longer meeting authorization. We'll see how this discussion is discussed. This is a previous issue. of a synonym and, however, some space for all members of Congress, to make use of their tribunals in the Senate, even though there was something in the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u43	President. I think it's pretty clear that we're not going to finish all this program in a short period of time, but the third energy package is back on schedule. It's obvious, therefore, that this will not be over. It's about us discussing behind a revised financial policy for the changing economic predecessors. It's a huge matter, and it's obvious that we need time to discuss it. No one's talking about a filibuster. We are talking about a normal time to discuss financial policies. That's why I think it's important, when I vote for a long conference, that I know what I'm about to vote for. At a meeting with the president before, it was stated that this should only be discussed all night, and I want it official and confirmed, if that's the case. Does the president believe that changing financialism is some small matter that does not require discussion? You see, it sounds like it was just a matter of hours to discuss this matter. Is it the intention of President to talk about policy and all the important issues on the program under the cover of night? You can negotiate with us to have a normal discussion today and then something till the evening, finish before midnight, then continue for a short time tomorrow and finish the discussion so that things can go to a committee. We don't have to take long, but I vote against going through this all night. I just think it's rude.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u44	A respectable president. I understand the concern of the president that there are 45 cases on the program, and therefore I am even more surprised to see that 1 5 of the programme is put on top of 16 more on the program, that the financial policy, which we need to discuss and remember the nature of the situation as it does, is put on the transition to social assistance and social security. You see, I believe that this part of the program is in a crosspolitic agreement and will go very easily. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen says, I'd like to know what I'm paying votes. Is it premature, because a work plan has been disabled - or what are we going to vote for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u45	The president makes it interesting to know that the subject is a so - called date issue. The law on government finance assumes that a financial budget will be taken care of in the spring so that a financial bill can appear in the autumn based on an agreed financial programme and that it will now be replaced with this proposal for changing financial policies so that two things can work together. The president approaches this with the thought to present a key issue that is obvious that the Council needs to be settled in the spring ahead of any others who might be waiting. The president reminds us that the discussion period of the council arrangement in the previous year. It's ten minutes and five minutes before the drive. Since a large number of members of Congress can complete their hearing within hours, right? The president does not fully understand why men assume that this discussion will enter the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u46	Mr. President. We can only assume that we have a proper work ethic here. They should be in the way that the government's financial policy, especially a revised one, is discussed here until the day, even though I have a clear understanding that the government prefers to do so under cover of night. I'm sorry, since there is a good chance of that. The president will not be moved here, and we will take it into the night, if possible, I would like to be settled, so that there may be no doubt that ministers will be present for this discussion. It has to be noted that if there is ever a need for them to sit here and have a conversation with a conference hall about financialism, it is when the situation is that it is now reimbursed a new financial policy, where the government failed to listen to its first experiment of caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u47	The president assumes that the responsible officer of the case, the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers, attend the discussion. He is, in fact, on the student list of the votes so that he can better inform us about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u48	Mr. President. I agree with it as the highest. The president told me before. the question of a concierge proposal is limited in speaking time. It is not that people can come over and over again for five minutes and then ask themselves what has happened in other cases. Of course, it is possible to complete this discussion in a few hours. There is no way that this can be completed in hours. This is a proposal for a change in financial policy that was approved in the preceding spring. And I wonder what the first. of financial policy took a long time in the spring of 2018? Do you think she took days? V.E.G. President. First round. Regarding financial policy, which we are now talking about making some adjustments, took three hours during the council. So we could start with lunch and finish this afternoon if we were to take the same time to talk about the changes in financial policy, and we did to talk about financial policy as it was originally presented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u49	Mr. President. I know it's the highest. The President has decades of experience, long experience, in the President's conference board, a lot of experience in how to arrange and arrange for them. I'm not asking him for that guidance here. I'm simply asking him to give him the guidance to answer clearly to us members of the Parliament whether it is quite clear that a meeting meeting will be in the longest degree. 12 tonight. No one's talking about filibusters. I also strongly agree with what was presented at the moment. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, we're supposed to be a judge in first taking the 16th matter on a social security program, with a dollar in return. We're supposed to be able to finish it too. This is a matter we can take both today and tomorrow. No one's pressing anything else. Nobody's playing here. That is my heartfelt desire to the highest. The president will show respect and answer the questions directed to him: How long during a meeting meeting? [[The president calls.]] Even if it has decades of experience, do not be halfhearted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u50	The president can say: If the discussion of the 15th and 16th events were to go far into the evening or even something in the night, the president would not continue a meeting after they had reached the committee. That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u51	A respectable president. I agree with the viewpoints that have been presented. It is unacceptable that this issue, although it may be put to the test that another matter is discussed overnight, day after day, issues such as reviewing government financial policy, will be discussed in this way. You see, it is because of something that is being revised in this financial policy. [[Taken out on: right.]] Hv. paritaprevir Just before, the Birgir Ármannsson used it as a line of reasoning that it had taken only about three hours in the previous year. Then, according to some comments, people were mostly optimistic about the basis for their policy. Sadly, many changes have been made, and warnings have been given since then. It's totally absurd that we're discussing this transition in financial policy now in the same context as when we've already been through it. was running, so that's what I think right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u52	The president now considers some of the things that are being said to be part of a discussion on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u53	A respectable president. It's hard to see why the senators choose to come here at the beginning of a meeting to start a negotiation with the President about how the Senate will soon be done. It's nice to use another field, a council meeting. Here are some people coming up after each other and saying, "Hey, it would be fair to have the discussion from noon, hopefully, until midnight, and then we'd finish it tomorrow. " Such a conversation at home at a council meeting if you want to negotiate on the progress of Congress. However, as long as the site cannot be used, and as far as it is seen in June and as many unsupervised cases as possible, there can be no alternative but to make use of all the time possible, and groups of government have wanted to do recently to promote all their viewpoints. And then we will. Of course we must. We must both agree that all possible time will now be used in the summer to complete the important matters of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u54	Mr. President. I realize that the President of the Parliament is having problems here. Nevertheless, I must say entirely less, it does not work to discuss such issues as financial policy in the shelter of darkness. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] We're even. talking about a vote for President's suggestion about how we're going to arrange this meeting. We see that this matter is unique in nature. We're about to go through the biggest reversal of the economy for less than 30 years, except for the collapse. Here's 100 billion bucks. The rounding of the economy and the state and the government are being hit by 40-3/46 billion annually for the next five years. Such a matter is not to be discussed in the covert of darkness, and it is perfectly normal for all members of the council, no matter what they may be, that this matter is discussed in bright light. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the only normal requirement upstairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u55	The President does not assume that the previous votes on this matter will take many hours, but he expects it to be a very bright day as the discussion begins on the 15th part of the program, so the president does not agree to a lawsuit that some dark act on those topics still exists. The sooner we turn to vote and then to start a discussion on the program, the better. Here, people are in the middle of a material discussion about the very matter that stands to be discussed. The president reminds us to stick to the material. This is a vote on the President's proposal on the length of a meeting meeting, not on changing financial policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u56	A respectable president. It has been declared that there will be even a council in the summer. Then I don't see why you can't say we're gonna be here till then. 8, then we'll be ready. 8 next night, then a head off. So we have to work here by day. [[We're just gonna stay here all summer?]] - All summer. They're talking about it and they're asking for it, and let's just get it on schedule. It's really annoying that we have to stay late at night or late into the evening. We can only take it at normal hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u57	Mr. President. I'd like to vote, but then I kind of need to know what the votes are. We're voted to meet up until tomorrow until the next conference begins, which I understand should begin at the time. 10 a.m.? Or are we voting for a meeting until midnight? Of this, a lot of people have what they do. Councilmen questioned and received no answers. Why can't we get information about what we're about to vote for? Senators divide jobs, and 16 cases have been said possibly ahead of time, and this is a very serious project, and I would think very little debated. This could be done quickly and well into a committee, for poor people can no longer pray for a little justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u58	The court will be allowed to take a stand on this because the President has received a program proposal to make the exact change in schedule, and it will be set up after a vote on the length of a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u59	Mr. President. I want to make it clear. Many have mentioned that there is nothing here to declare a saying. However, there is a reason why this matter needs to be talked to. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir year's farm Ármannsson spoke of only three hours of conversation. Economicism is the foundation of any government that's due for 48 months. This was effective for 14 months. It can be changed when disaster strikes or disaster strikes. What we see now reminds us of is how the Icelandic soccer team goes to Ólaifsvík and realizes in 18 minutes that it rains, the grass is not really hit, and it's a small wind, and demands that they start changing the rules of the game. [[Up front.]] Here are some things that you couldn't do, and we just need to talk about it naturally. [[For example, there is never a wind in Ólafurvík.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u60	The president believes that discussions about soccer in Ólaifsvík are even farther away from the subject than there are other subjects. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u61	Mr. President. We'll discuss the vote for a longer conference, that a conference may last longer. 8 tonight. We can't get answers other than that from the President on whether a meeting is going to stand here all night or not. If I try to read the words of the President, I understand the President so that all night it will be spoken if the subject is the government's financial policy to 2022 and the decrease in disability. They will be spoken all night. It's obvious that when we're talking about financial policy that assumes a balance on the budget, not for a year, but for the next few years, we'll have to take it into consideration, I'm not talking about when three hours were not working at all enough to get government officials to do anything about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Clearly, such circumstances require more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u62	A respectable president. The question of whether a meeting should be held until midnight or something late after night is rather obvious, to me, e.g. ... ofa discussion here at 3rd. in the last assembly of elections to rural governments that had lasted for six hours. 3rd. is final, just like a previous discussion on this matter. [[The point is, it's not final.]] It is final on - 1st. can end, it's not infinite, it's final, not infinite, it's right. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] All right. [[Up front.]] They had lasted for six hours and were at least six hours left if those eyes continued, yet the matter was taken off. It is a huge matter that needs to be discussed, just as it was, and it can be expected that if a similar discussion of that matter, even if it is the first, it would be the case. And may end in the end, that may last ten hours, and then be past midnight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u63	Mr. President. The person here does not necessarily have an extensive discussion on an isolated subject, but there is no basis for reasoning on this matter. paritaprevir An annual Birgir of a Ármannsson showed that only the subject had been discussed, i.e. Financial policy, for three hours last because this policy has not been successful. [[Up front.]] I'm sure it's very much discussed. I don't think that it would be possible for me to submit to the president's authority, as I have in the past few weeks about the length of a council meeting. Of course, he has the program and does not hand it over to any man, where he stands. So I vote with a lengthy conference, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u64	Mr. President. Well, it's happened here, but I think there's a reason to explain it further. This natural request of the government is not accompanied by a claim, a threat, or a promise that we will spend 24 hours together. If we do so, we do not want to continue into the night with the time until midnight to talk about this big matter. That is not an abnormal request. On the other hand, the highest word. The secretary of finance that it would be more natural and better to settle this at a council meeting, I agree, completely with it, but I also remind him to be in a slightly better position than the one here trying to arrange matters so that these matters can be discussed in those meetings and settled there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u65	A respectable president. It may not be surprising that members of the Parliament call for a clearer view of the procedure that will be performed today and the next few days. The minority has repeatedly tried to call for the greater part of the publication of a clear view of how action will be performed and we are able to complete a number of important matters on the program, where we have placed the empty cabins, both the presidents of the greater part, and apparently more of the council members of the United States, on the same hand, have not been fully authorized to discuss such agreements. Not surprisingly, a clearer view from the highest is called for. President. Here's a government and a political body that spoke of a new venture at the General. We are quite ready to sit here for the summer, but it may also be natural for us to work normally and at the normal times of the day, not under threats that there will be night meetings day after day, so that more parts can oppress the lesser part of obedience and silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u66	A respectable president. I wanted to keep it in place here that the only thing that has come from the highest level. The President for the answers to the questions presented here is that there will be no scheduled case tonight, or whenever the situation arises that these two cases will be completed, either 15 or 16 cases, they will not be scheduled for a second matter, which is likely to mean the third energy package. The threat of a night meeting could not be much clearer than this, and it's only honest at the highest level. President to speak so clearly. But this cannot be the best way to try, if it is intended, to come here on an incorruption and a good spirit in some form of assembly block of conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u67	The president is amazed at this repeated threat. The president has no reason to believe that a long day and the evening will do us well to discuss the two subjects that are here and 1st. to come to the committee. Based on the time zones held by the Synod in discussions about such matters, it has become a very long discussion before midnight. He's being threatened by the president. There is something that spokesmen have made up of the smaller section and is another thing behind which the president does not realize. During the 15th session, most of the body of Congress could complete its speech before midnight. It's just that simple math tells you that. The president may not fully grasp this point, and he points out that the time we spend on this matter before we reach the opportunity to vote on this simple phenomenon will take place during the time that humans can discuss the events on a bright day. [[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u68	A respectable president. First, I'd like to apologize for extending this discussion, but I just want to agree with the words of the president, under the council, all members of the council would be able to comment on a pact proposal for changing financial policies and the highest degree. Department of Social Affairs measured his case before it would be 12 o'clock. I say just as it is, as some predecessors who have been in this hall before have said, that the most fun I know is to come to a night meeting in June on bright and beautiful days. I'll be there and listen as a minister to the financial discussion sometime tonight. I'm sure that's all right. But it sounds to me that the council members of the government, the smaller part, come up here one by one to make sure the Central Party doesn't have to talk about the energy package tonight. It's some new science for me that if it's become the main challenge of the government opposition to make sure the Central Party doesn't get the chance, as they've requested, to discuss the energy package, the most important issues. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] In general, I think everyone likes to go to a Senate hall at night and talk on bright and beautiful days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u69	There is no general political debate here. They're discussing the simple proposal that a meeting meeting may last longer. 20 tonight, and the president allows him to believe that most of the views on that point are in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u70	A respectable president. I'm going to say this here as a puzzle, that I'm going to hold on to the President's proposal for a long meeting, whether he's there or not. 12, 4 or 6. [[Up front.]] I've been here a lot more nights than what. A senator here talking and interrupting. As we have seen, if all the members of the anti - held council use their right to speak in financial policy, it is seven hours. This is one half of the time in which a precious coin has been discussed. If we give the minister a full answer and use it all the time, it will be an extra hour unless the government's opposition is going to go against themselves or they expect everyone else to respond to it. Then there's something that goes on and on. I don't think that's going to happen. That's not the experience. It's certainly good to talk about it, and it's necessary, I'll agree with it. We have plenty of time before midnight begins.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u71	President. Just so those at home understand why this cycle is going on here, it's natural because presidents and members of the United States have failed to have a perennial conversation about how to arrange this meeting. The President has the agenda. He's in charge of it all by himself. Understandably, the president has grown tired at night meetings, but he is ready to continue. He's tired of a filibuster that's clearly been going on and is the longest - hasn't that been over the limit? The longest one ever thought. But that the president has grown tired of it doesn't justify applying it against the smaller parts here on objective grounds, willing to participate in Congress, and wanting to discuss the civil affairs of the government, and really want many of the cases of the government to get established and to be able to run out. I'm asking the President, don't pour the things together into one building. We're not on the team when it comes to these matters. We have a policy that differs greatly from that of the Central Party. We want to discuss the issues that need to be discussed, objectively. I'm asking the President to respect that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u72	This does not mean taking a speech sentence from any individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u73	Mr. President. I need to ask a president to help me. Now we know that there has been a little rich and long fuck-up culture in the Council. This shows that we are taking up financial policies again, despite the fact that clients, minors, and others said so when the present financial policy was adopted that it was inadequate and would go badly. Clearly, there was not enough discussion then, and we may also see that when people discuss matters until late into the night, not everyone thinks clearly. It's going to be hard to work hard. What we need from Mr. President is some information about what we're voting on. If we have a meeting long into the night, possibly, we are directly damaging the quality of the discussion that needs to be considered for this changed financial policy because it was clearly unsuccessful in the last two weeks. [[The president calls.]] I don't want us to be messing this up again right now by being tired and badly called. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u74	The president believes in members of Congress that they keep something clear in their minds during the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u75	Mr. President. It can be said with a bang. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, in length of discussion, is one thing and quality is another. Other matters could be kept in mind, that quantity is not good. The discussion will not be better when we stand for days, if we stick in the same routine and repeat ourselves as we have in other matters, we will have no clearer information or viewpoints. The same can be said of these financial policies, it should not be a formality for spokesmen in the language field to promote and reason all major views within hours. There's no choice. The discussion does not necessarily improve with the fact that all members of the Parliament make use of the entire session they have in the Senate. [[The president calls.]] There will be no better discussion, it will be no better work, just so it's said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u76	Mr. President. I'm coming up because I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... A secretary of transportation earlier, once again suggesting that the government's situation has the purpose here. It is the administrative body that has the programme, the president of the greater part of the board. And it's completely intolerable to sit behind it, both in the media and from the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. District Minister and Transporter, that we are responsible for the way the program is planned for the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's not like that. And if any political party, the Central Party, decides to occupy the council, it is not the responsibility of the government to stop it but the government. Why don't the government get dressed up in a book and put it here at work instead of throwing it into the arms of all of us who have no power? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u77	President. I admit, now I'm a little confused. I wanted to answer only the highest. A minister of finance who is surprised to learn that the length of a meeting is being discussed, and it certainly belongs at a meeting with the president and members of the council. The reason we're here for this discussion is that there was no conversation at a meeting with a president this morning. Rather, the president was actually telling us what things would be like. That's why we're taking this discussion here. There was no way to get some sort of contracts or agreements or conversation over the length of a council meeting. One thing I've become very confused about is to the highest level. Secretary of Congress will come up here and talk about us trying to help out that the Central Party doesn't have to talk all night about the third energy package. The president was just about to say that after the 15th and 16th sessions, a meeting will be terminated. There was nothing to put the third energy package on after that. I'm asking the President to confirm this. Was that a misunderstanding? Did I hear something wrong earlier? If it's so obvious that we can't talk for more than six, seven hours about financial policy, why don't we just come out and say we're meeting until midnight and then we get to move on tomorrow if we have to? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u78	President thought he had spoken quite clearly enough. There are 46 cases in progress, and much work is waiting, and the president was so optimistic that he assumed that it was possible to agree on this program today and tonight. On the other hand, if the discussion of the 15th and 16th sessions lasts until midnight or something longer, the president will not address any further issues. He cannot really speak clearly in that regard. That's not what I call a threat. That's to inform them. Though it took two cases on this day to consider a planned president, there was no irreparable harvest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u79	A respectable president. The last of the president's discourses was strikingly illuminating. Just a little addition to that, which explains the vote as it is: If these two sessions run out sooner, let's say at about an hour. 8 The third pack of energy is expected to be on schedule - a night meeting or something?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u80	Mr. President. Sometimes it is better to take a hook and go a longer way when you arrive closer to your destination. This part of the program here might shorten the discussion. I think I've lacked 33 years of Congress experience in view of the highest level. President. But I'm going to let me mention that if I'm the best. The president only opened up to the fact that this discussion stopped at the time. 12 and I start again the next day, I think the two of us might agree that there was a great chance that she might even finish today and tonight. There's no threats here. At times, people need to be flexible in order to achieve things rather than to be tenacious. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u81	President thanks a lot. A senator for good advice. Even though it was. A senator may not be a highly experienced candidate for life, and a president agrees that sometimes a hook is better than a man's.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u82	President. Exactly what it is. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson said about it. The president sets up the program so that first there are votes, so there's this big wall, which is financialism. He's just gonna have all the other cases back there. That's the president's advice. He can totally accept financial policy and allow a case of disability and older citizens, pensioners, the highly legal social security case. He can, he controls it. He can do so now, as soon as I finish this talk, he can stand up and change the program, but he decides to adjust financial policies and allow the rest to remain, that is, the real situation. To throw it over the smaller part that has been very critical when it comes to the meeting's program, the liberality of memory, that somehow we are not responsible. It is called uncluttered, or responsible, to make people accountable, or to punish others for the actions of others. Maybe it's something that's most convenient. The president and his management style, but it's hardly appropriate for the Supreme ideologies. Secretary of finance making us responsible for the Central Party. [[The president calls.]] It is as if the inert left behaves today, and I do not believe that the minister of finance wants it to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u83	President. I'd like to propose to the president for a long convergence. I trust the discussion of financial policy will not be exhausted today, since this is a previous discussion. The matter will go to the committee and come back for discussion, and likely members of the Parliament can present their ideas about change if there are any. So I trust this case won't run out today. We've been standing here for 45 minutes. I can't wait to vote on a number of good subjects that are on the program. I allow me to mention the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Distinguished and Parliamentary Directive for the formation of a counseling agency for immigrants. I'll take a look at something. these matters as a fairly large time in the history of the Generals, and they look forward to vote on them whenever we get to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u84	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Social help and social security (counselment and management of employment income), 954. case, legal bill for Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. - 1st. If it's allowed. 2. Motion Change No. 10/148 on budget policy 2018-022, 953th case, Congress decrees for financial and economic ministers. - Previous round. If allowed And then from 3 to 32 with the other issues on the program for this meeting, they are in the right order. This is the way the program is proposed. The president asks: "Can't I spare people from reading the entire program? " It is totally unchanged in this respect except for these two subjects, No. 15 and 16, it's crossed. Is that, then, fairly clear? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u85	President. I wanted to explain only why we make this effort. This is a very important matter, and I agree that it is finally making some kind of legal compensation for the disability donor, to eliminate part of it, or to reduce a dollar to the limit. As head of the welfare committee, I think it's important that we do an honest attempt to handle this matter before and possibly end it at the end of the council - if possible, I don't know yet - to get it into a committee as soon as possible. It matters. I think it's the scariest thing we can do that case so we can start working on this very important legal thing. I hope the senators vote by giving us this case in front of the order where it should have been in the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u86	Of course, he refused to read who wrote the letter and deliver this program. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Bergþór Ólason, and Ingi Kristinsson, who say the presidents of the Congress versus state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u87	President. So the people at home understand what it is to vote, is, as the president has set up the program today, the financial agenda put first. It's a wall where there's a lot to go through. We want to bring up the rights for disability in advance, handle them quickly and carefully, and send them into committees so that they can be processed. This proposal will only work for the next meeting. It is the only record we have in the council to change the program. The President can change this right away, move the disability case ahead and finish it right away. Yet, he has not decided to do so despite being brought to his attention. This proposal means that even though financial planning is not completed, the World Congress must now decide to move the disability case to the meeting tomorrow. This is where the U.S.R. will be responsible for having disability wait, if he intends to allow his financial plan to remain there as a shield.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u88	A respectable president. Just to agree with what has happened to the speakers before, it is simply a matter of suing matters of 15 and 16, which, on the other hand, turns on the application of the solution to microchip and financial policy. It would seem that as the time passes, government officials are beating us for holding this timely penalties, absolutions, from microgeries. I want to flaunt it immediately, that shame will be returned directly to the parties. This is totally their responsibility. Of course we're supposed to finish this right from the start. There is a chance that the discussion will not be too long, even if it becomes someone about this important matter. But it is entirely the responsibility of the government parties to this issue and it will even be canceled if things go wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u89	The proposed program presented here is totally responsible for the responsibility of the President of the Generals, and no one else has had anything to say about it. The President of the Generals arranges matters according to certain rules. A political proposal that is a part of the program and needs laws in accordance with the need for payment in this spring is placed first on Article 1. Paint. This explained to the president at the beginning of a meeting. Similarly, he has thoroughly explained what is involved in the program proposal, changing the program issues of 15 and 16, and was hoping that it would not require long discussions. Not everyone has a what. Councilmen can see exactly what to pronounce here, i.e. □ Why is it important to have a regular Bible study with Jehovah's Witnesses? Do we need a further discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u90	A respectable president. We're just asking to talk ahead of business, about disability. There are small amounts of 4 billion, which had reached 2.9. I think we need to get going before this goes away. Maybe that's why economicism precedes, because there's something in it that's supposed to run into the little money that's out there. I hope not. I hope that we will allow this matter to come on the program because it is important that they run out in the spring, not in the fall. It's been pulled and dragged on donkey ears, promised them it's gone completely. A dollar worth against a dollar, but it doesn't stand. We would probably allow the case to enter the council as soon as possible so that we can handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u91	Mr. President. I thought it was important that his case was made clear to me, and the entire body of Congress heard that the proposal is based on the responsibility of the president. Therefore, I insist that members of the government, especially the forwards and the left greens, take us to the government stand on this proposal by saying clearly: We are going to prioritize the program. This is a small change, but it is important for a large group of people who need the support of all of us in our community, to set the cause of disability in front of a crown. It's a matter that will pass through the council pretty quickly. There is no delay, financial policy will be over, but we are simply saying clearly: We are going to be waiting a long time for the case, setting priorities for the elderly, and setting matters straight ahead. It's very simple, and that's why I encourage members of the government, because it's just a program for President, not the government, to join us in a position of government. [[The president calls.]] I especially urge senators left green people and advance to obey them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u92	When the shop gets in a position to do so, it will speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u93	A respectable president. Briefly: The change in terms of financial policy resolution is not a date issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u94	A respectable president. I believe in speaking clearly about how ethicism can at times function at the General Assembly. I think it's important for the city, the audience, to have access to that discussion. As far as I can see, though I am open to other opinions in this subject, that what I believe was a mistake here, extending this meeting with the merits given by a respectable president, will damage the discussion of the case that is suggested here to be ahead, as well as the discussion of financial policy. This is because there is now a measure of interest in one particular category to delay these two discussions until midnight. I think that's a big mistake. I think it's gonna ruin the discussion. Therefore, I feel that it is important that the above issue be set up so that the rest of the section will not be punished for the challenge as a result. A central category has been included in the third energy package and will probably continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u95	A respectable president. Poor people can no longer wait for justice, and that is just what we are asking for right now. It may be an opportunity and chance to put this matter before the financial discussion so that we can bring it to a committee. It doesn't seem clear whether we'll be here all summer, so maybe it doesn't matter everything, but considering that maybe at some point next to an agreement about the end of the council, it's very important that this case get into the welfare committee as all of us first so that we can handle it before the end of the council and we don't have to wait for this justice yet for our smallest brothers and sisters to make it a new winter in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u96	A respectable president. Now that we take a vote on health policy until 2030, I thank you very much. A well-being committee for a very good and detailed job. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Halla the Sign of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir for being an executive of the case and holding it in place through the commission work. This is an important turning point. This is the first health policy approved at the General Assembly until 2030. There's a lot of support, and I especially thank you for that. Here we have a clearer setting of service than ever before, which should contribute to greater security, better service, improved care, and responsible provision for this important matter. The course of the medical institutions will continue to be based on this medical policy, and meetings will be held across the country through the induction process. Again, I would like to thank the good work and all those who have been involved in this important work, especially counselors and those who have participated in the preparation of the situation for meetings and the staff of the Ministry for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u97	Mr. President. It is true that this is a big and important matter. In the majority of the nearly 40 reports received during political treatment of government health policy, both criticism and frustration were found, on the one hand, a lack of important lines such as mental health, prevention, rehabilitation, and the affairs of older citizens. The answer to this criticism by the health authorities was that they would come later. However, they will not be treated in a judicial way. According to the agreement here, they will only be submitted to a council for information and discussion. On the one hand, the interviewers were critical of a very uncooperative approach to the spine in Icelandic health care, i.e. all those who stand outside the world's institutions. As a result of this mechanism of action, health policy depends on the institutions and the components of the medical system involved in early medical procedures. There's another plan that won't come to the council. We cannot vote for these tactics and declare a great disappointment by paying off the Minister and the Senate's financial services on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u98	A respectable president. What a joy it is to have health policy scheduled for the year 2030, such as the highest! A health minister says, but the sad state of the situation is that it is in my mind only to put on a dress that doesn't fit it because there is no compensation. When they are talking about meeting the people of the land and other such, they still differ from other health - care providers. There is still increasing waiting lists, which are still aerodynamic problem. There is still a major problem in the health system, and I miss this course of failing to see what might be the highest. A health minister has planned to try to reduce the problem and to take up her witnessing policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u99	A respectable president. We regularly vote for a long-term and wanted policy in health care for all the people of the country, for all of Iceland. This was expected to be a pivotal box, an informative and clear guide to a close future after a detailed discussion at the council. Well, that's not a greeting, actually. This is a general verb and a vague clue that is difficult to make. Therefore, the union will support the document presented here, even if it is so loud. In this so - called health policy, a major factor is needed. There is also the need for innovation and absolute need for new emphasis on aging, as well as the rehabilitation and health of all kinds, in view of the fact that the nation is gaining weight and is becoming with the fattest of nations in the world. Most important, it is health care in the country. Therefore, it is important that a plan of action be introduced as soon as a minister has, in fact, reported that this work is in progress. However, the arrival of the council is complete, and the plan of action will be presented here in presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u100	President. I don't like all that's going on here, but the big picture is that we have a health policy at least, which means that everything must be aimed to the same degree, to the quality and safety of the patients. You can't take this kind of thing aside, like expanding the pots when it comes to the private business that just has -- we see it in a report from the Ministry and stuff, that the part was always growing with very limited surveillance of the money used. In Iceland there were two times as many tonsils as there were in the North countries because it could be made that way. We have a medical policy, which means that all the safety and quality of the service that the patient receives will be considered, and then the funds must be followed on that basis. This is of utmost importance, so there are no double medical systems that can be created in the power of the money each time. This is a great day. We've been waiting a very long time for this, and I've been calling for this in a speech chair because it's been a very long time, but it's not been wanted to do this because it's preventing personalisation in the health system without supervision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u101	A respectable president. This is a health policy vote that has been waiting for a long time, i.e. to get health-care policies so that important medical development can be initiated. I rejoice in this course, as we are considering the services to be performed and the quality or requirements it should meet, as if access is of any kind, what quality is being met and what is required, and so on. The discussion was very focused on the committee's need for this and that. That is exactly where the implementation plan is to be carried out, exactly how these policy targets should be achieved. I'm glad we have our policy so we can deal with the work programme in all of these vital matters that are waiting for us in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u102	Mr. President. How happy we are to vote for health policy until 2030! It has long been asked for the nature of the case, as this policy is to produce changes in the council and in the government, it is covered with broad strokes. The details are not drawn out. It is never possible to go to very many years. The course is already working. The Ministry is already working under strategy mentioned in the eighth unit of policy, which is a cause of great rejoicing. It is enough to mention mental health. It is enough to mention matters of the elderly, it is sufficient to mention medical procedures, and so on. This is a great deal of joy, and I will gladly vote for this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u103	President. I come up here to celebrate this health policy, that it has finally arrived. I also rejoice that work is started on sub-routines or projections in important issues, and I want to encourage the Supreme Court. A health minister continued in these matters and encouraged her to have as wide and as good a consultation as possible at that job. Also, I would like to emphasize the importance of taking care of health issues based on the prevention and the importance of the work of the Ministry. Because protection also has economic and social rights to be done, and it is important that the ministers of these different classes work together to prevent health benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u104	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote for a Senate resolution on health policy guidelines to the year 2030. This is of utmost importance because this is a frame framed between health policy and 2030, and the items to fit within it should be placed in a schedule of action. It is very important that this national health policy does not follow every government's whims, that there will be a measure of strength that we can accept. There are various indications and other activities that may follow up in the operation program that we all await. She should be there and bed. But this course is very important. Here we are taking into account all the subjects, whether at birth or in a nursing home, so that everyone will have the same rights in the country where they live and regardless of their age.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u105	A respectable president. I just want to remind people of a financial program where government policy is at one time or another. That is exactly what the budgets for the measures involved in this health policy are, so the strategy is definitely up for the Generals. Just to be perfectly clear. Don't forget your financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u106	A respectable president. We'll talk about health date to 2030. I supported the health committee's opinion in advance. The warning was not one, but more. One fact was made clear in the case of the committee, the noncommunication, spoken of by many of the committees. The council was lost in policy, and I hope that it will be improved. I'll support policy, but that's what's missing from her that bothers me. It's missing, for example. things that have to do with waiting lists and anything that should be more accurate and better in there. Also regarding health care in the country and/or the health care needs in small parts of the country, in the country, in the hospital transport and elsewhere. I hope they'll take care of it and make it right. I'll support policy, but I'll take notice of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u107	V.E.G. President. We'll be on the centrally yellow button in terms of this medical policy. I've made several adjustments to her that I think will improve. The population considers our system social, which means that we use agreements through Iceland's Medical Insurance so everyone has the opportunity to enjoy the legal service. There's a big part missing in this course. In particular, I would like to point to the issues of elderly, mental - health care, and rehabilitation not to mention public health. There's a lot of emphasis on a land hospital on the Ring Road, and I think it's a big misbehavior. I reiterate that a great lack of communication has marked all this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u108	A respectable president. I think it's safe to congratulate us on this health policy. She's been a little on a welfare committee for a long time. A great many have presented the committee and have discussed some of the problems that are taking place when it first comes out. I still think that as a whole, we are getting very busy, and we are making good progress in maintaining a vision of health care. We want to do better, and we're gonna do it in a new strategy and prove that the health system is here to expand and increase. I thank the Minister and her people for the cooperation of this policy, which is very well known to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u109	A respectable president. The adjustment proposals from the smaller part of the welfare committee that we vote for here are unnecessary to my opinion, and the main policy has disappeared from the direction of broad strokes. Another attempt to postpone and kill has also been added to carry out operations at the Land Hospital. I will vote with the motions of the majority of the section entered into a broad set of eight members of the committees in the course of the year. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u110	Mr. President. This contract is a product of the Council of Arctic partnerships and also of the council policy of members of the same states through the Northern Parliamentary Conference. The fullness of this contract is a good example of cooperation, how successful it is, even though the United States has failed its duties in the state of government when it comes to recognition of the climate problem and in its action against it. Iceland has been in the field and is a major contributor to this contract. He deserves concordats at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u111	Mr. President. I come up here because to us at the Environmental and Transport Committee, it had been reported that there were no votes for specific changes in helmet protocols. No mail was received for this, despite repeated requests for it. That's why I come up here simply to ask why. Chairman of the Committee: Do we vote for a helmet or not? Perhaps it would be good to get the answers because this has been discussed and was requested to be discussed on the committee before this vote would come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u112	Mr. President. A general council is now taking a historic step that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People is to be legalized. This giant step will glorify the rights of disabled people and disability in Iceland. With the legalisation, Iceland will be one of the first countries in the world to legalize the contract, and it's not often that we can say that in this room. As many judgments show, there is a sharp difference between validation and validation. In fact, we have only established three major international contracts, which are the children's agreement, the European Human Rights Convention and the EEA Convention. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People will now be placed on this ledge. Finally, I want to thank those who are fighting for the rights of disabled persons, especially for the cross - laity support they receive. This shows, Mr. President, that we can do wonderful things together in this room whenever we want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u113	A respectable president. What a joy it is to stand here and say: "Congratulations! Congratulations, Iceland. Congratulations on this giant step. Congratulations, cripples, disabled people. The new times have changed, improved times. It is clear that there will be a great change in bioavailability and other things that have been lacking in our fine country. I'll say to the entire U.S. Congress: Thank you. We're doing beautiful things here today, and it's really important that we feel good about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u114	Mr. President. The importance of human rights agreements is not a cover - up, for it has proved to be a very powerful tool for fighting various groups of rights. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people has the goal of ensuring the disabled in full rights of all approved human rights and the privilege of enjoying their individual life and freedom of the individual applies to all of us. With the legalisation, Iceland will be one of the first countries in the world to legalize the contract. I'm proud of it. I know that although the battle is not over, it is a huge step. Of course, I say yes, Mr. President, and congratulate everyone on this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u115	Mr. President. I'd like to agree, with those who spoke before, that this is a big lucky step, an important step. Thank you. Ágúst While I would certainly have wanted to see the government take the initiative there, Ólafur Ágústsson's Augustison Ágúst, for having pushed this case forward. V.E.G. The prime minister is in the hall, and I would like to encourage her to consider the selective Annex to the United Nations Convention for disabled people. The Congress agreed on Sunday, 2016, to validate the agreement with this important United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I asked the highest. Prior in the winter, Minister of Justice, who had a clear opinion and did not consider it important to validate the preferred supplement. I'd like to encourage the highest. Prime Minister to address this matter. It is also important for disabled persons to be followed by the legal process. It's a very happy day, and I can't wait to pay this important proposal my vote below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u116	A respectable president. Although this is not a vote for legalization, the United Nations Convention is hereby proposed to include this legislation as soon as possible, and there is a new proposal to reduce it slightly. I'm going to sit by the release of this case with the reference to what is stated in just the members of a committee in which the terms of the agreement are largely aimed. Such agreements and such texts are indiscriminately based on the fact that the law should be clear about the rights and duties of the citizens. A text such as this is not suitable and does not create anything direct for those who want to lead him right to court and are much less likely to explain the rights and responsibilities of disabled persons in particular. It is also stated in the committee's opinion that an earlier resolution has been adopted that the United Nations Convention would be implemented into all laws and projects. That work is working very well, and we are expected to focus on it and to focus on completing it and doing it well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u117	A respectable president. We're voting on our own human rights. Finally, normal human rights apply to disabled people, who, of course, raise the question: Why on earth do we have to set specific laws about human rights for disabled people? Still, we are happy to do so, and of course we should make sure that we do. On December 13, 2020, every legal book has been established. Then, hopefully, in Icelandic law, it will be true that when the causes of disabled people are taken to court, it cannot be said that human rights cannot be followed because this agreement has not been legalized. We must make sure once and for all that human rights work for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u118	President. I come up to celebrate this fine affair and thank the 1st convergence for making the statement. I also feel that it is important to thank a welfare committee for our work because we have been able to work together unbelievably well together on such important matters. It was one thought, that it was the will of all members of the Committee that this deal would be legalized. Therefore, I would like to encourage the Ministry to work hard and take special note of the significance of the contract, to consult with the translation of the agreement, because it's been messed up several times. It is important that we do so well, especially in the light of the fact that we are legally establishing it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u119	Mr. President. How happy we are to vote on this matter now! There's a lot of rights here and a very large political case, Mr. President. It is of utmost importance in regard to the rights of disabled people. The deadlines for the conversion proposal, and we also vote for afterwards, should be sufficient for the administration and the recruitment measures to tie down the end that needs to be shaken to complete the legal fixation. I have confidence that the ministry involved will now increase the intensity of their work, including that, as well as the driving force. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came in, the new translation of the contract to make sure that everyone is on the same page when the legalization finally takes effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u120	A respectable president. This arrangement suggests that the government will be assigned to prepare and complete the legal agreement of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people and of Icelandic law. The deal was validated 2016. The Ministry of Justice is now working on a state report to the United Nations Committee on measures taken to cover the commitments of the Icelandic state under the contract. We hope it's going well. A health board stresses that the Ministry speeds up its work on the basis of prisoners and priorities in order to win bills and measure the rights to which the contract is intended. As director of this case, I would like to thank members of the welfare committee for firm support. A solid agreement was to resolve the matter in this way from the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u121	V.E.G. President. I would especially like to agree with the words that have been spoken here on the importance of this agreement. I also want to say something specific. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen says that when we are talking about translating into the basic minds we're going to use, we need to take action. We've received repeated observations from research centres in disability studies at the University of Iceland, especially from Rannveig Traustadóttir, who's been a lot on our hands. I can't really repeat enough how much I want to say these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u122	A respectable president. Here we vote for a change of law, which includes the fact that society no longer has to be located in the country's capital. I am very happy about this, and I would also like to point out that we made a legal adjustment in the courts in February 2017, where we agreed on temporary regulations that the National Court could have a situation outside of Reykjavík. That, however, was only until the year 2022. I hope the conclusion is that we will correct it so that it will no longer be a preliminary law, since I think it will be fine if agencies are located outside of Reykjavík, even beyond 101. It can also be noted that our constitution in Article 12. that the president has residence in or near Reykjavík, but in pars 13. the Ministry shall have a residence in Reykjavík. A respectable president. I just want to remind you that there's a life outside of Reykjavík. There's a life outside of Reykjavík, and it's a pretty good life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u123	A respectable president. At a committee party, I took this change on notice. Of course, as a member of the regional council, I rejoice constantly when the Council deals with legal adjustments that will contribute to the establishment of government agencies outside of Reykjavík. There are many opportunities to fail. This is the transfer of social status as short as possible beyond the city limits, but the current law says that it is located in Reykjavík. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in many parts of the South, Selofossi, or Acdéri, the area is excellent, and the radius can grow. I would also like to use this opportunity to encourage the government to take a good look and with an open mind of moving the institutions out into the country in situations where it is practical and rather keep their promises to increase jobs without location in the light of modern technology. There are no barriers and insurrections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u124	A respectable president. Here we are discussing a vote for a Synod resolution proposal suggesting the establishment of a central intelligence agency for immigrants. I would like to make a special point that it is used in the motion that there will be a special attention to the activities of a multicultural facility at Isafjordur, which runs the corresponding organization that has gone very well and has gone very well for a few years. I think it's important to draw attention to this activity and even to expand it - not just in the capital, but throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u125	V.E.G. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir The Halla "Signý" Sigar new Kristjánsdóttir. I don't think this council proposal is necessary. I think it's much closer to expanding the operations of the Multihuman Institute at Isafjörður. I imagine the finest branch office in the capital area, if that's the case. This is part of what has happened earlier today, moving jobs abroad, as it is called when we stand here. I would feel a lot better if we were to look to that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u126	A respectable president. It is a joy when the government steps in order to promote the assistance and support of immigrants who come to Iceland for different reasons to live or live in. Therefore, the Conspiracy supports the synopsis proposal. Because thousands of new Icelanders are constantly being added, work on these important factors has been missing. The current infrastructure needs to be strengthened and coordinated with all the forces employed in the media. However, there is no overall policy in this series of issues. The United States has proposed a subject that has not yet been advanced on the welfare committee and is awaiting a new council. However, we support that suggestion in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u127	A respectable president. I would also like to mention, because this has been a reference to the United States President of Iceland, which is an excellent institution and is a very important and needed project, that foreigners who come to Iceland in isolation, social and of all rights and responsibilities available in Iceland are particularly at risk. This is because they usually do not speak the language, do not know many people, and come from other areas where there is a different common sense, as in modern society. There are things here that Iceland finds obvious that are not obvious when you're new in the country. I know this as a foreigner myself in other countries and probably a lot of people in this room. I think it is important that we keep in mind when discussing the institutions and their location that they must be near the client. That's the most important thing. It is not in itself a vital point which institution will perform its precise role, as long as it is well cared for and cared for by the clients to assist the Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u128	A respectable president. The value of the matter is well paid, but the fact is that it is an active institution at the town of Isafjoins, called a Multicultural site. Our position in the Middle East is that it would be more wise to support the work being done there and perhaps expand it with a branch office in the capital area, if necessary. We cannot agree to start a new government agency. We'll vote against this case, but it's not because of its content. Rather, we feel that it would be much more reasonable to support the President of the United States of Iceland than to create a new government agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u129	Madam President. I'm going to be so bold as to say that we're accepting a case that will make a big difference to many people. Although this was the case in recent discussions that the government was taking a certain step, it is not. Rather, it is members of the left - green council that present the case, and I am its 1st transporter. The Congress is accepting it and hiding the government project. It is clearly stated in the case of the whole operation, including a multicultural site, that I must admit that I do not fully understand their opposition to the matters that bear the best interests of the Multihuman home for him. But let it be. It's a happy moment, in my opinion. I want to thank you. The welfare committee for this case, her chairman and the leading authority of the case, why. Mogensen Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and others of the Committee. I thank you very much for your department and for the department's office. A minister of how this matter can be continued. I'm going to say, if the vote goes on like this, this is a big day for those who go back to Iceland and want to live here for any reason, whatever they may be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u130	A respectable president. I wrote on the committee's opinion in advance, and they're facing two factors. We already have a consulting office like this, located at the town of Isafjörður, called a multihuman place. In the knowledge that the work now to be further developed will be based on the basis of that institution - experience and knowledge there will be complete and that it will be one, not two separate organizations - I will support the proposal, with their notice. It may also be, and the defence also turns to the United States as it has been established by the Senate's decree to work a consistent immigrant policy for a long time. It appeared about the same time that this proposal was proposed. We believe it is natural that it lies before such options are opened without a complete perspective on how we are going to develop this vital aspect of community service. There is no general policy in Iceland and it must be won. But I will vote for this proposal. I hope there's a general conference waiting for the next session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u131	A respectable president. As stated in the Commission opinion, by permission of the President: The proposal suggests that there will be a special attention to the work of a multicultural site when a recruitment agency is established and that the agency can be a division within the Multicultural site. This is made clear in the report, this is clear in the committee's opinion, and this will be presented in advance from now on. Councilman of the United States of America. That's why I have to wonder, " How in hell are we going to do it? ' The members of the Central Party vote against this proposal. I think it's shocking. I have to say right now. It is difficult to deal with all the problems of foreigners in general. Part of it is how we receive people, and when people fail to show the support of the problems they themselves face, they go the same way. Senators, I'd probably be worried about that as a sign of certain hypocrisy. I feel that they have not read this matter for which they have decided or that they simply do not have enough respect for the category of paint to deal with him with with the dignity due to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u132	President. In view of the words said before, which I appreciate such a view, as to, as to the fact that, hopefully, this service will be on the grounds of the existing institutions, I say that if this becomes a reality, which I so sincerely hope, for any reason I hope we're just hiding the Ministers to do this, I hope that it will be primarily on the grounds of those who use the services of the requested organization, those who attend the country, for whatever reason we may be, who will be, wherever on the country may be, will be able to find information on how they can feel on land. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u133	A respectable president. I thank the Committee for this and for the people who moved it. I think it's a good thing. Just to correct the misunderstanding that has been done by some members of the council when this case does not seem to dissipate a multicultural site that is employed today by three employees, there is no reason to break it down to more units. However, there is work to promote the population site, i.e. taking on an assignment now that is in accordance. This project in this area is about to expand its service in the capital area. It can be within a Multi-creature or in cooperation with the mansion, in cooperation with the Labour Office and other institutions that are directly and indirectly linked to this category. So I wonder at the misunderstanding here. I think it's just a good thing. I'm glad it's done and I'm about to become a reality. I encourage members of Congress to take note of their votes that have misunderstood the matter on some grounds. How fine it would be if we could see the entire tablet green! Thank you for this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u134	A respectable president. Again, I must declare that there are members of Congress who vote against this proposal. I find this underscores the fact that in one category at the General Assembly, there seems to be a greater ambition for creating a conflict between capital and national settlements, or to create a disagreement between localized interests and in this case, as in other cases, based on misunderstandings, or at all times a lack of understanding of the matter as it is known. I just want to say on this occasion, because this matter is really important, that there are problems that go with it when huge numbers of people move abroad. There are all kinds of problems, technical problems, organizational problems, and certainly problems that cause people not to know their rights and duties, not all the fragrances and qualities of society, either legal, social, or cultural. And the only way to deal with it is by offering such suggestions as this fine suggestion and other similar suggestions. A key point is that such suggestions are adopted at the General Assembly for success, and especially for members of the Parliament who are concerned about the impact of increased foreigners in the country, they should support such a proposal. [[The president calls.]] Everyone should.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u135	Mr. President. I just wanted to call the senators' attention to the fact that the team where members of Congress explain their votes is to account for their own votes, not for others. I'm sorry that I'm being made aware of my vote in this case which before was elected to vote. It was noted that there was an interest in getting to a branch from this fine plate in the West, in the capital area, and in other parts of the country. Because refugees are in many parts of the country, not just in the West, and in Reykjavík. So I'm just waiting on you to know that there are guys and some other guys, and they're giving me opinions and they're explaining my vote. I can do it myself if I choose. I beg you not to abuse this scene for that. If they have any reason to bring reproach on anyone here, they can do so under the right conditions and with the right answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u136	You're right about what you're doing. In principle, a senator should use the word when he prays to explain his votes to explain his position and to explain why they vote, as it really is. Similarly, it is not appropriate to refer to what. A senator here in the room as some guy. It's not appropriate, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u137	I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u138	A respectable president. I just want to start by saying I don't take it any closer to being called a guy, but I'm a guy and I'm not ashamed of it, at least not at all. It's unusual when people come here to explain their vote that they're going to vote in the audience. That's unusual. I completely refuse that it is in any way inappropriate, unusual, or new, or considered that here it is the senators for the votes that appear on the table when we discuss the vote. It's perfectly normal and perfectly normal, it's completely by all tradition and me knowing that there's no violation of any rules. If they exist, they are expected to be recent. I also drew the conclusion that I mentioned earlier from how to do so. The members of the Central Party themselves spoke. Their words led me to conclude. I read the motion, I read the committee opinion, I heard speeches. sponsors of the case. It worked for me, in combination with a word. The senators who and also their general response here, which I must say, just as it is, a respectable president, that I am a bit tired of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u139	There have been two letters from a health minister asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries. 1447, service contract for a nursing home, from Inga Sæland, and on a threshing floor. 1456, about offices and office managers in the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u140	The opposing court will be reassigned, allowing one member of each anti - government class to respond after the financial secretary's history and have two minutes on the first round and one minute in the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u141	A respectable president. I recommend a change in the terms of terms of fiscal policy resolution for the year 2018-22022, found on deck. 1652. Under government law, the obligation of the secretary of finance and economics is to submit to the General Assembly of Economic Policy in the form of a proposal for Congress as soon as possible after a new government has been formed. The financial policy provides a nominal objective for the survival and debt development of the public public community as a whole, i.e. Part A of the state and community and businesses owned by them to at least Five years old. First, the purpose of this policy is to promote sustainable and stability in government finance to shorter and longer periods of time. According to the law, financial policy targets are expected not to change while the government is running its policy unless its principal candidates fail and then, in the wake of Congress, and in the pursuit of the opinions of an independent financial body. Economic policy should then be in accordance with the financial guidelines of the law, both baselines of five, sustainableness, carefulness, stability, firmness and transparency, and the absolute conditions for the development of yield and debt. A respectable president. Just over a year and a half ago, I set up the World Trade Organization for the United States during 2018,2022. The economic policy was based on Iceland's Institute of National Economics from November 2017, which included the continuing of economic development to provide a 14% cumulative economy throughout the forecast period. In a current financial policy, it was set out for the overall benefit of the public, i.e. Part A and rural society would be positive with a sensitivity of 1.4% of GDP during 2018 and typically about 1% of GDP thereafter. Furthermore, it was recommended that the aim of a federal debt to be less than 30% of GDP would be met in 2020. These policies and statistics for the period were based on the official economic and national forecasts available at that time. As we know, plans are dependent on many uncertainty factors about economic advancement. Such uncertainty has now developed to a worse degree than expected in the economic forecasts and disturbed the financial policy to such an extent that the disintegration of governments from previous goals could hardly be considered to be in line with the baseline law on safety and stability. A respectable president. Despite a year's recession, the level of tension in the economy may look close to balance, despite some increases in unemployment if economic forecasts persist. The annual rate of economic growth over the years is 20200/2024 predicted to be close to long - term growth or around 2.5%. A new economic forecast is expected to result in a 11% reduction in the number of tourists in 2019, mainly due to the bankruptcy of WOW. WOW's plaque failure has been effective in reducing the economic growth predicted from February at about one percentage point. At that time, labor failure leads to some 18 billion less exports than it did in 2018. The effect is to decrease by 0.4 percentage points in the event of exposure published in February but has been reduced compared to the previously published projections. Official reevaluated ratings assume that the recovery of the official body is unchanged by about 40,446 billion. each year, of which the impact on the wealth of the Kingdom is some 3,500,440 billion. every year. Such a change would mean that the survival of the government would range from positive to positive in the range of 151/21.3% of gross domestic product as expected in the current financial programme to be negative in the range of 059.0.3% of GDP. Clearly, negative results in this range would not be well compatible with the baseline laws on public finances on stability, security and sustainability and would also jeopardize the law's financial rule that the total recovery should be positive every five years. The rate of growth in private consumption is predicted in a somewhat smaller year than that predicted in February. This change results in less pay and more unemployment than previously anticipated. Anticipation of the proposed changes in the income tax system contributes to a greater personal consumption of 0.2 percentage points in 2020 and 0.4 percentage points in 2021. Business investments are linked by 2% and estimated to be 16.2% of the interest in housing investments this year and 9% at the next one. Official investments increase by 6% this year, making the percentage of investments in land production almost the average of the past 20 years. It is estimated that on average, unemployment will be 3.7% in 2018 during the current year, which is 1.2 percentage points higher than in the projection to support current financial policy. Then the estimate is that inflation will be 3.4% this year and 3.2% in 2020, while the projections leading to a fundamental financial policy predicted 2.9% inflation both years. However, the economy is predicting lower inflation now than in February, which in turn leads to lower control interest. The cause of the recession presented in an up - to - date national forecast. Iceland's Office will not be traced to decisions taken at the level of public funds. However, government financial matters can have a significant impact on the intensity and long - term downturn. The contraction is of the nature and magnitude of the challenge, especially for a short period of time, with significant income and expenses. Under current economic conditions, such measures to ensure the survival of a government fund would include a significant increase in the maintenance of public funds. Such measures must be considered unwise and contrary to baseline laws on official financial stability, including financial stability. in promoting public financial goals contributes to the balance of economic matters. In this way, such measures could result in an even greater contraction of the economy rather than in a sense of stability. A respectable president. As indicated by the synopsis proposal, adjustment of the policy is primarily aimed at establishing baseline stability. The current programmes show that the review of the financial policy should not violate baseline levels of public financial sustainability, either soon or long. Here, it is of prime importance that the government's debt has dropped considerably faster than that set aside in a current financial policy. The debt ratio is already below the maximum limit in the public financial law, 30% of gross domestic product. The review of the currently proposed financial policy is not the dramatic conclusion that it is in conflict or that it is in conflict with the numbered financial laws of the law. The recovery should not be less than 2.5% of GDP in one year, nor should the overall recovery rate over a five-year period be negative. Because of this, the law does not suggest a temporary deviation from financial laws on public finances, although it does. A respectable president. As the law on public finances says, the situation may create an inevitable review of policy. According to the code of the law, if the core premises of current policy fail or predicted they will be broken by economic failure, national or other circumstances that are impossible to deal with. The laws of the law also make it clear that financial policy cannot be reviewed because its objective is not reached by general weakness in the government of the government of the government of the government of the local policy. According to this, the main focus on policy review has been as follows: 1st The maintenance level of government funds does not add to the collapse or resolution of economic growth beyond the adjustment of the economy. 2. This will be the appropriate requisite measures to prevent the formation of a limp on government operations. 3. The adjustment of the policy will not be a major factor in temporarily compromising the financial laws on public finances. 4. It will be assumed that there will be any scope for reducing economic progress to a revised financial policy over-programming, which will not be carried out for other reasons. 5. Achieving policy aims that if the economic progress becomes more economic, it will now be predicted to increase, according to increased revenues for more economic growth. A respectable president. In the implementation of the policy in the annual financial programme, expenses have closely followed the development of income. During the first two years of his work, the government has contributed handsomely to the development of language groups and projects. As a result of a slight reduction in tax burden, the decrease in debt ratio has gone faster than the financial policy expected. This has resulted in a decrease in growth costs and an increase in the possibility of government spending on important projects. Clearly, current financialism has been based on good progress in economic growth, that economic activity would not be the target for abdicating. When these factors have been disturbed, there is reason to learn the lesson of building into financial policy, and for the future there will be scope for such a period of growth, increasing as the period of policy has advanced, with greater uncertainty. Here, as specified in the 3rd stipulation, it is suggested that the addition of V. to the development of the government in financial policy would include a predetermined period of about 0.4% of GDP to the targets set in annual financial programmes. This includes the determination and commitment of the government that the objective of each annual financial plan must be better than the current policy. This is, as it is written out, a kind of special precautionary curve, an uncertainty range is mentioned in the table. Substitution has been made to give baseline values an increase in government financial policies. A respectable president. The changes suggested for financial policy reflect changes in economic prospects that have a direct and significant impact on public survival. A change of policy means that governments will take counter measures to the extent necessary, as well as past plans to produce considerable rest. The ability to react without the spread of the government is a sign of national trust. The improvement in the economy established by the government in recent years, and the lost ones make the economy and the public much better equipped for temporary application. In this regard, the financial system has been restored on a healthy foundation and now operates according to a clear rule. Figuratively, money has been removed in a successful and successful manner. The rights of public and public employment deposit funds have been consistent. Tolls in all but specific agricultural products have been removed and general products have been dropped. Accounts of an enterprise's pay market have been reduced and will continue to decrease. Recently there have been costly measures to cover labour market agreements compatible with the current employment situation and contribute to economic stability, for the benefit of all. Tax taxes, especially those under the average population, have been reduced and will continue to decrease, and this is one of the major measures to reduce income taxes in the late years as well as updating children's benefits and payments in the maternity plant have been increased. It increases revenues and puts up with demand in the economy. During the past eight years, regular and vigorous economic growth has given the homes more power to buy. Homes and businesses have taken advantage of the growing season to reduce their debt and have a table for carriers. State funds have also been fully paid up, and other debts due to the collapse of the banking system have also been dropped. This, along with the reimbursement of loans at far more favorable markets than has been offered, has dropped the interest rate of the state's budget. Because of these fine results, the public is now in a good position to withstand temporary opposition as the economy adapts to changing conditions and receives a new economy resistance. So there will be my final statement here in this previous passage. and in this prehistoric discourse to promote that, despite its only giving up, public finances have become optimistic. We still have the state funds in balance. We've got the good years to make the best of ourselves. We have also seen this in domestic management, corporate management, government funds, and rural management how well we have a new year to build for the future, and we are now benefiting greatly in all of these areas. [[The president calls.]] Our homes, companies, government funds, and rural communities are better today than they were a few years ago, and that's good for us in this situation. A respectable president. I suggest that the proposal be referred to. The legal committee will be after a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u142	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the speech. I wanted to communicate with my rural society only, as it should be. The question is, Do the communities trust to accept this new financial policy and whether this reevaluation is a long way in terms of the fact that their communities have all the information and accurate information so that they can live up to their financial agendas? According to local authorities on current financial and policy policies, the biographers contracts weigh heavily on their rural communities, where a large proportion of their employees receive pay under the lowest toxes. Not to be overlooked is the government's plan to freeze, a word to be used, payment from an equation fund, which has greatly influenced the communities, and they have strongly objected. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that the calculation of this reevaluated financial policy does not result in reflecting even the more difficult business of the rural community. It would be interesting to have the highest attitude. A minister in this regard because I think this is a lot of concern, it's a way to cut down on the rural communities, and, in addition, the state funds have failed to keep their commitments from the balance. Tells you the highest. Don't Ministers think this could further weigh the business of the rural society?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u143	A respectable president. It is true that the law assumes that formal agreements with rural society are resolved. It is now reported that this conversation was not completed for financial management at this spring. But we've taken it back up. As shown by this proposal for reevaluation of policy, we are based on the fact that in the coming years, there will be no gap in rural society, in contrast to current policies, that the rural communities would be expected to achieve about 0.2% for public living. It appears that in 2018, the rural communities have been driven to a lengthy angle and that there is enough work to be done for the rural population during this and the next few years to stay, in view of the overall, at zero. In this respect we will assume that in the coming years, the contribution of the community to government will be nothing, and it is also long established that we had never followed by a law-change to freeze funds into the equation without agreeing with our rural society. This is what we've done before. It seems to me that there will be no agreement with the rurals. We'll have to take it into account when we settle an agreement, which I hope we can do before the council cancels a financial program. You're right. According to one U.S. senator, rural communities are taking on pay increases in the groups that are down in the pay ladder, but they will also pay the answer, and the rural communities have benefited greatly in recent years from the high economic growth in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u144	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. The point is to panic. I think it is quite clear that very little consultation has been made with the communities when the big decision was made to freeze payment from an equation fund. The rural communities strongly objected to this, as we have seen. Therefore, you are concerned that this change in financial policy can have dramatic consequences for your rural society. It's like the highest. Since a minister should correctly consult with the rural areas in these areas, it is very important that they receive all the information necessary to them entirely. I just wanted it over at the end of the day. In view of what lies ahead, a minister will see if he is willing to promote some kind of support for his community and is being put on the move in this direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u145	A respectable president. Just so it's said one more time: There has been no decision to reduce the contribution made to rural Slurpee. It was one of the underlying grounds in the development of a financial programme that an agreement would succeed, but without an agreement it will never be submitted here at the council. I have said this many times, although there were other ways in which men wanted to understand it. Since this will not be resolved, it will be taken into account in handling the case here at the council. It's very simple. However, I have to say just as it is that I didn't feel that there might be some space there because the equation has changed to an increase, as it hangs in proportion to the total income of the state that has been growing in the last few years. In the years that followed, the additional increase was a methodology that I thought could go on. But it doesn't seem to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u146	Mr. President. Last financial policy was to last five years, but it barely lived for over a year. We're having one of the biggest reversals in the economy for less than 30 years, except for the collapse. The government does not hesitate to thank itself in a successful manner, so should the government in times of failure. We noted that last year when we criticized that a 14 - year - long increase in economic growth was indistinguishable to be expected in Iceland. Then we were called pessimists with pessimism. We see that the economy is now about 100 billion dollars. and, unchanged, the product of the government is going to get worse by 40 billion and every year for the next five years, by the way, by the millions of people. It's not just for a year. In comparison, this amount could be used to remove a dollar from a dollar three times as well. It could be four times as many child - saving systems as possible for this amount, or it could double the amount of money that goes to the university. This is the situation facing this government's economy. It is also apparent, Mr. President, that government funds will remain undiminished for the next few years, but they are proclaimed to be counter measures and economic measures, as they say. It's not just drying up the rest of the money, Mr. President. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Who should take the cuts? Are they elderly, students, teachers, cops, nurses? Scarers? Will the same groups be left behind during the recession period that was left behind during the economic growth? This, Mr President, is the million-dollar question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u147	A respectable president. It is an amazing approach to the government law, by setting up financial policies, and making financial plans for the next year, to focus on man's adherence to plans from 2017 but to less emphasis on what is right in the present situation. Hv. A senator has spoken to higher taxes in the country. He has spoken about greater spending on public finances. This has been his alpha and Omega talk about public financial matters. I just ask them: Would it have been good now to increase taxes by 2,535 billion a year, as the United States suggested, and to have a higher budget in public finance, as suggested by the United States, but we do? I don't think so. Where are the signs that the steps we have been taking to serve abroad have not worked? Do they appear in the inflation? For the past few years, we've had one of the most permanent inflation we've seen. Has it appeared in the interest phase? The numbers have been reduced and have rarely been lower, the growth differences have rarely been lower in the countries, e.g. ... tothedollar. Is it in the debt of state funds that we see the weakness? No, we have achieved our goals and beyond that. Is that at other obligations? No, we've been paying in advance on pension bonds. Has it been shown on credit that we have been building on unrealistic plans, that we have not been doing our best in behalf of the people in the country? No, it hasn't been published in Iceland's credit score. Has this appeared in the economy of the households? No, he's better. Has it appeared in the economy of the companies? No, not there. Where are the signs that the policy we've been following has not worked? And the answer to the questions, w. Senator: No, we are not about to close the budget by walking on those in the weakest position in the community. They have been blessed with the benefits of their past economic growth. Just look at the history of the income. It's very easy to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u148	Mr. President. A minister calls for success. One of the worst losses for 30 years is the failure. I was calling for clear answers on the management procedures. V.E.G. Only four days ago, a minister said by permission of a president: We're going to have some practical procedures. Both general actions, but also a speculative economy requirement for the overall system. I'm calling for answers here: What economics are we facing? Where's the Minister gonna cut down? And with regard to used income measures: Was there really a reason to reduce fishing costs in a way that they approach the financial tobacco charge? Is there any reason to have the lowest capital capital tax in all the North countries? Is a reason to have 27 billion bucks. tax allowance for tourism? If you are not careful, consider, for example. In the year - to - year increase of property taxes, do you think it's a lot of money? The government's acquiescing income strategy, which is why I call it once again for a clearer answer from the minister: "Where will he cut down? [[The president calls.]] It is not enough to say that he is going to dry up the rest, for the hang and the stroke are more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u149	A respectable president. As we have seen, we will review individual investment projects that we can move to in time. Similarly, as foretold, we will postpone one year of bank tax reduction plans, but we will emphasize that the decline of the bank tax will still be legalized. This is also a improvement project. We want to be economized by the use of public service on digital communication. We are reevaluating various other expenditures, and we expect public business to be practical and efficient and to be effective in implementing the technology in public. But we're not going anywhere. A senator of higher taxes, higher capital tax. In this situation, it is really remarkable that humans come here with all force and offer higher taxes for their tourism. We're not going that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u150	A respectable president. There was an interesting list of how awesome we would have it, yet there is a economic breakdown or national threat. At the same time, the government gives particular attention to the fact that nothing in public finance caused the economic breakdown or the national threat, but it commends itself for the economic evasion that has taken place. This doesn't fit, Mr. Honorable President. I wanted to ask a minister about the legal requirements that deal with the review of financial policy. It uses very large words, economic breakdown, or national threat, or other situations that are impossible to deal with with. These other reasons must be as important as economic depression or national crisis. I wanted to ask a minister: What are the available advice that would not be sufficient to cope with this economic crisis and national crisis? And whether it is a economic crisis or a national threat, unless it is both? I find that lack of evidence support, in terms of official financial review regulations, is needed for a review of financial policy. I can make some kind of logic, but I can't find it, and I can't find any of the things I could imagine to be interpreted as a logical support for rethinking policy. I simply call for the support: What are these available options? Is this a national or economic crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u151	A respectable president. In the beginning of my speech, I'm going to mention two things that are sound evidence to make a change in financial policy under these circumstances: 1st Common sense. 2. A basic set of laws on public financial matters. Those who object to a reevaluation of financial policy in this situation are saying: "We're supposed to stay at the goal of recovery. They will need to offer suggestions on how we, despite being hit on the income side, give up nearly 30 billion leftovers next year. I wonder if this discussion is so much a formalist that they cannot see the forest for the trees, take it with them into the discussion of obvious truths and common sense, they are not wondering what works best for the homes of the country under these circumstances or what works best for their business. What is wise and careful to do in the long term for government funds, for their communities? Isn't that what we're suggesting? Or that's what art is, boy. A senator, especially one of his favorites, i.e. that they can live by what they said in December 2017? I got it. I got it. A senator just to get out of the ditch and realize why we're doing all of this here. We're doing this to keep the country stable. To create circumstances in which people can improve their lives. We are not doing this in order to be proud of any projections since 2017 because of 2020, that we have to subject ourselves to it. There's gotta be some kind of reality connection involved in the discussion. That, of course, is the answer. The answer is: The measures to rule out that we are going to and conflict with the baseline value of the law are to take tens of millions of cuts, or, as the United States suggests, tens of millions of tax increases.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u152	A respectable president. I appreciate your speech. The minister couldn't hear me when I said that I would find a lot of available advice that could explain the need to review financial policy. I just can't find them in this suggestion, that's why I was asking what the government's arguments were for. Yes, common sense and all that goes down the streets - yet after many years, it has been criticized that the government is constantly putting itself in this straitjacket that the Council of finance calls itself. If it hadn't been for this straitjacket, if this uncertainty gap had been present, which is being added now, we wouldn't have to, in an uncertain space, and the available advice that others can use, again and again in this sort of fixation case for the Council. Then it could be handled by an uncertain gap that has been missing for many years and by available advice under public financial law instead of using some kind of practical economy that everyone is hoping to hold but won't, because they all know it and they've all warned about it for years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u153	A respectable president. We're based on all of our basic market economy. I'd like to protest, as a matter of course. A senator said earlier, that the government had dedicated all the interest in economic growth. It's not like that. We believe, however, that we have a new economic growth to make the best way for the future, that we have been working in harmony with the baseline laws. This enables us to be proud today in the face of such circumstances. In the market economy, things can happen like a airline going under. We are also a society based on the use of natural resources. There may be times when there is a failure or a recession from which our business enterprise gets worse in foreign markets. There's a lot of things that can happen. One of the things we are, yes, learning lessons from recent years is that perhaps there should have been more flexibility in the course or after the events of the program. All right. I don't think it's unnatural, in the first few years after we're doing the new law, that there are such things coming up and we're listening. That's why we're responding with the uncertainty curve. However, the main point is whether we have been achieving our goals fully, not whether our policy is a terrible thing to reconsider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u154	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is bringing some kind of misjudgment, I think, in this discussion of new financial policy. It says the highest. A financial minister who describes the government's economic policies as a wonderful achievement. Then you watch and say: The situation is that since this government has gone down 20%, inflation is on its way, not on its way, and we're on our way into one of the biggest unemployments and the most brutal landings in the Icelandic economy for 30 years. It thus describes the government as a wonderful success in its economic management. This may have more to do with today's crisis than with financial research. That's what I'm wondering, my chief. Financial Minister: How the hell is it that we're standing here trying to convince us that white is black when everyone is faced with the fact that, first of all, there was no listening to the very clear and persistent warning of many parties, not only in this room but also to the government's financial policy when it came out of its time, warning just about this situation, that it was all too steep in a government budget, and it would come in the days of debt? We reviewed the official financial law to prevent repeated economic failures, where tradition was that during a time of rise, Kingdom spending was typically increased by some 3,940 billion a year, and it was then pulled down. And what is the policy of this government? This was set for an increase of 401⁄250 billion a year on the price of today's budget. That was the lesson of past mistakes. It says here that this is an act of great success in the economy. It is obvious to everyone that this is a total drop point for the government's economic regime, and it is pathetic in the case of trying to justify the mistakes that have already been made. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will the financial policy recommended here compare with the economic predictions we now look at in the front?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u155	A respectable president. I want to prove that unemployment is going up for very clear reasons. A big business driver went down. However, they look for unemployment to decline after we are past it. It's just wrong. Senator, we've never seen anything like this. That's wrong. This is not true, for we have recently seen new agreements made based on a steady environment. Hadn't there been a decrease in interest? I know why. A senator would like to get out of the Cronus Environment into the euro, but you can't take any argument into that discussion. The situation is that we have been using the past few years to prepare for the future and to strengthen ourselves, and we are stronger in virtually every aspect of our lives. May I read from the National Bank on Money since May, by permission of the President: In the leading part of the financial crisis, Icelandic households had a relatively small and national savings economy, i.e. Total savings of homes, businesses, and government had become historically low. The situation today is another in which homes and national preparations as a whole have gradually increased their savings despite the intensive expenditures of the past few years. This, as well as a large-growing position of home and business... - --changes the situation. Hv. A senator says: "We've gone too recklessly, we haven't been on a realistic level. In the government that I and what. A senator sat in a financial policy together. According to it, the next year's money was to be 1.4% of the country's production, which is said to be more than the policy I am suggesting for us to change. But that's what it calls "wow." A senator does not have optimism. It was nothing but realistic, it was just a reality. Then there was. A senator to support the government that saw all of this coming in 2020, and from the years to 2030, I expected it. The important thing is this. When asked, "How have the principles of home living improved? " How's business running in Iceland? the answer is very obvious. Money has grown every year in all the earnings, business is now enjoying a reduction in growth and, despite all, it is just a temporary shock that we are going through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u156	Mr. President. You're absolutely right by the Topv. The secretary of finance to the homes learned very much from the last collapse, and they acted in another way, and so did professional life. But it didn't. The exact same economic error has been carried out in official financial administration now and then. If indicated, the word can be spoken at the highest rate. Ministers believe that the economic policy of the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding classes of the years before collapse is likely to be evidence of a magnificent economic achievement. Here we see a practical basis for assuming that it will be an amazing turnaround next year. A financial policy that assumes this and actually trusts in it will not stand the same as it will be. At the same time, the tow car in the economy, the tourism service, is saying: There is nothing in our numbers that indicates that this will be the case. The late bank itself has made a deviation that says that if the fear of tourism becomes more economic development during the period we are considering, over the next three years, it usually averages about 1% less each year than financial policies assume. [[The president calls.]] How's the top? A Government to Deal With? [[The president calls.]] Would it not be proper for us to be more cautious about public finances when it is already warned that the basis for this economic policy, unlicited, is smiling? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u157	A respectable president. That's exactly what we're doing with the uncertainty curve that's entered a first-time policy. I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator is actually suggesting that we do more than that. Of course, we could set up here General Economics, General Hausti, and say: "We don't trust these economists. We don't trust The Habitat, we don't trust any other diagnostic agents, we don't trust any other agent, we don't trust any other agent. What exactly is being suggested? That we use anything other than public economic predictions, independent third parties, to lay the foundation for our future plans? Or should we just take the pessimist voice and say, "It's to her we have to aim for? I do not tire out saying that it is certainly unfortunate to have to rely on uncertain economic predictions in the future, but that is the only way for us to plan on what the third party has said. On the other hand, if we fail, we have a space of uncertainty first, and second, we always have the capacity to get together and say, "We need to take action. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing terrible about it. What really matters is that we do good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u158	A respectable president. Reasonableness, justice, failure. These are terms we've heard a lot lately. Now we're looking at the changed financial policy, and it's not unnecessary, but what really burns on me about it: Who's going to pay the bill? That's not really true. I'm glad I'm at the top. Secretary of finance has already proclaimed that he will probably postpone a decrease in bank tax. It's only 7 billion now, but I'd like to see who's going to pay the bill, that 40 to 46 billion in the next five years if they're going to stay behind. There's something I'd like to say. Last Friday, a court sentence in the United States fell, which will cost a total of 5 billion dollars. except for growth and growth as well as growth since January 1, 2017. I haven't heard from anyone. I haven't really heard of it anywhere. It's like everybody's not talking about it. Of course, the court has not appealed to the Supreme Court. The land's legal rights have dealt with repetitive laws as illegal, completely clean, and the Court has also protected in its judgment the legal requirements of the Constitution. On whom will all these extra expenses end up in the end? Very much. For example, where it is already available, does the minister of finance get this financial support, or will it possibly continue to take on what should be least of it? A large proportion of the community still remains, far too many who get paid under 220,000 bucks. in the money for a monthly performance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u159	A respectable president. This is a rather loosely related matter. I can't answer for the fact that there will be a permit to handle the case before the Supreme Court or not, but at least it is quite clear that if you fail to make the state's budget of several billion commitments because of laws that do not abide by them, the state funds will be completely up to that level and will not be in trouble by making those demands. It is clear that in the policy we are discussing and the financial program before the council, there is room to resolve such disagreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u160	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for that tremendous answer. Clearly, there is no lack of targets in a wealth of money, and we need not worry that the amount of money involved is on a pair with a half - height failure with interest and interest. I've said it a dozen times, and I'm still saying, "I'm here for one reason only. It is to reap more righteousness for the common people in this country. It's to try to fight the poverty of the country, as everyone knows already. A year ago, I promised, and I can tell you that when this judgment was down, we would go to another case that would test 69 C.E. Social Security Act, where I think it's a micro-terrestrial violation. Now, let's see, Mr. Honorable President. There may be other surprises, so perhaps a new financial policy will be called a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u161	A respectable president. This is so with the rule that was put to the test in this particular court case and the legal code at hand. A senator is suggesting that both rules of law are consistent with government efforts to distribute limited resources in a reasonable way. There is nothing else that is behind the rules and other principles that can be taken into consideration in this regard. However, if you want to unplug them to make sure that there is more money coming from a government fund to those who need to rely on the reform systems, you will eventually have to answer: Where to Stop? Where are you going to stop at the billions of dollars? Where should the money be taken from? What categories of action do they take? Of course, it's no compromise to come here and say, "Let's just cancel all the impairments, and let's not let the change take into account from year to year in general, but let's just let it develop somehow. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've been adding a lot to this system, and all public figures show it. But we can continue to discuss exactly how to divide the limited amount of money we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u162	Mr. President. The government has achieved in its short life span by setting up financial and financial policies that did not prove sufficiently cautious and is not in the spirit of the law on public finances. It has to be said that you are not optimistic about the government's success this time, however, there is evidence that the government is still not sufficiently aware of the situation, at least not about the severe status of the tourism service. Attention should be paid to the information given to the officials of the tourism service, particularly to the national community in this respect. In view of the greater part of the budget service to the current financial policy since March 2018, it is noted that the vast number of airlines offered to Iceland is at the hands of two airlines, and this increases the risk in tourism. Everyone knows what happened to one of these two airlines, WOW, and it's one of two main reasons why this is put forward a revised financial policy. The middle class had a special discussion last year about the state of the international airlines and expressed deep concern for the position and location of the international airlines. We talked about whether the patrol officer, a Transporter, had kept track of the WOW airline's operation. Then it turned out that the business was in a lot of trouble, as we know it, and the airline went bankrupt. It is well worth wondering if the monitor was sufficiently strong and if he should have intervened in any way in order to try at least minimising the damage that has been done here. It might well have been possible, Mr. President, to plan how disturbing the impact of tourism would have on government income, but this was not to be done. So much of the budget committee back then was concerned about the increased risk of travel in the development of government finance policy, but it really did nothing to worry about it. A smaller portion, the one listed here, showed in his opinion that in view of the high risk factors, the majority of the material should be evaluated in aberrant predictor. This was not done by the Ministry. In view of the situation that has come up, it is important that ministers highlight further variations in financial and financial contributions as well as in other important national interests. The financial agenda presents a general goal for public financial development. In the 10th. legal on official financial matters is a review of financial policy. Thus, the aims of economic policy are expected to be revised only if circumstances are out of control, such as national interest or serious economic breakdown. The new policy does not define the type of trauma, e.g. as a share of land production, to be considered to be a distraction to existing financial policy. The minister has to recognize the proportions and the size of the shocks needed to change that policy. Analysis has to be about the magnitude of the overall problem in order to require revised financial policy. This is often ecstatic and appears to us today. The Ministry's professional investigation must be available. When do policy reviews need to be needed? Where's the margin? What's your size? How large are the events needed to be reviewed? The trauma has been reported, but I believe it's the highest. Ministers should submit analyses and scenarios that help the General assess when economic events, as a percentage of economics, have become large by themselves, and then together there is a reason to promote new financial policies. It would have been reasonable to contribute a specific chapter in the synonym where this is being reviewed. It's normal to go to the highest. A minister would have provided a ground for the council in this regard. These are traumas. When, though, is the challenge of changing our course? I believe, Mr. President, there is a lack of a professional report on this. The effects on the public, family, and businesses should be displayed in stage photos. That would be a more careful and normal presentation, and it would greatly strengthen the discussion here. The government laid the foundation for the current financial policy, as it should be. However, I do not believe that the government has taken adequate precautions in their use, especially in terms of the length of economic growth, which is considered by experts in the longest economic history of the country. I believe that a discussion about a new financial policy could have been much more progressive and deeper if the discussion had been delayed until the legal opinion of a financial body had been established. As is the case today, financial adviser, according to Article 10. the law on government finance, to give the Allied review of the proposal and whether there is a valid basis for review of current policies. I refer to my earlier comments about scenarios and the overall evaluation of the magnitude of changes that might lead to a new policy. Therefore, it is not enough to have a review; it is a valid reason, as the law says. Therefore, the importance of highest importance should be emphasized again and again. Ministers will provide professional analyses of when valid reasons have been submitted but will not base their undefined assessment of whether valid motives have been met but at the highest level. The minister mentioned earlier that he even laid down. the key to common sense. However, this analysis would be useful for professional discussion at the Council, as is the purpose of the law, as well as for financial advice to determine whether the extended grounds of Ministers meet the law's requirement for a validated warrant for review of policy now. Surely there can be no basis for a discussion of the change in financial policies of over a year, which, by nature, is intended to live five years without changing, without first becoming the expert opinion of the most skilled economists as to whether there is a valid basis for this discussion. But I don't belittle the fact that it's a good thing to do. Ministers who usually discuss the financial policy of the government with us at the Parliament but may be fully charged to submit a change proposal without having a legal statement, I highlight it, the above-diagnosed expert on the occasion. Mr. President. I would have thought it best to present the proposal and the comments of a financial body at the same time. This is because if there is no financial review requirement, the government is expected to bring up measures in financial planning, as stated in Article 5. the law on public financial matters, which leads to achieving the goals of existing financial policy. It will only be seen that the government will assume that the Council's comments will be in its best interests. In my opinion, the highest. Ministers do not have enough access to the evidence and analysis, as mentioned earlier, so it is wise to start that discussion. I can see that, Mr. President, it's been a long time. I cannot complete my speech in this speech and wish to be reassigned. Finally, the course may be the same at this stage as it should be about changing financial programs with logical support for how it ensures that the current policy is being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u163	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson is able to share many concerns about stage shots and interpretations. We've been through this a lot before. A financial committee and I know that in our conversations with the Ministry of finance, this is something that everyone has a mind to add to the future in this regular work. Hv. However, a senator mentioned two things I'm going to pause at. On the one hand, it said "wow." A senator, who corrects me if I'm wrong, to plan and plan would not have been too cautious and to the highest degree. A government would not be aware enough of the status of tourism. First, I'm going to go to the show on the safe side. Is it not just a matter of respecting a baseline law on government finance by the actions we are looking at here? V.E.G. It was handled well by a minister in his background and later in reply. There is every reason to be smiling, as we have seen, to reevaluate policy with regard to baseline values and, especially, for security. I'm gonna ask you what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. On the other hand, what is the wise course to take under such circumstances? That's exactly what this adjusted, revised policy is going to lead to a balance of government funds. That would make me feel very cautious, given the position and the improvement in economic growth. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator whether this is just what is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u164	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Board of Sheeps the Anti-Answer. It is true that we spoke in the highest court. During the days, prime minister that the state funds have a natural role in the economy. Hv. A senator asked about reason, what would be the wise thing to do. Enlargement with public investments is positive, I think we can agree on that, but also state funds to hold hands when the economy is successful. Hv. A senator asks for caution in this regard. Yes, I don't think it was a measure of caution when it seems that at the top of the economy, expenses are considerable and heavy and should have been more contained and might have set aside, as they say. I don't think it's safe to be careful when we expect continued growth in the same way that we've had one of the longest economic growths we've ever had. In that respect, I believe that there was a lack of caution when the current policy was submitted. We see that in a very short time, it is a great deal of transition. Economic growth is expected throughout the period, followed by a crisis and a government fund driven by a tilt in the coming years. [[The president calls.]] Something's gone wrong with that job at the time, I think it was. A senator may agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u165	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to reenact it, but maybe it's the real growth of budgets in 2017, at the top of 2016's pace, something we could look at in this regard. More leftovers were expected. Now, though, we are looking ahead to the situation where there is a more progressive economy and a predicted contraction. It is important, of course, if we only look at the baseline security level, that the maintenance level will not be any more than the recession level, or that the economy may not be increased, or that it reduces, more than what we call adaptation or the automatic fluctuation of tax and relief systems. I know, and I don't believe anything but what. A senator agrees with me when we look at this view, the very beginning of caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, I agree with him that, of course, the government's role is not to deepen. That's quite clear, and in that respect, I agree with him. However, there is also another matter that might be discussed in that context. It is a plan for the National Fund, whether to put aside plans and to use the income designed to build up the public infrastructure and investments to offset the predictable contractions. I think it's important to look into it. But when I talk about being careful, I'm mainly working on current policies that people were too optimistic. I don't think there's anything to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for Þórarinsson's son. We are wondering what to do in the face of situations, and of course there is much to be done. I'd like to call for some position. To the factors that would strengthen government income resources, I especially refer to the wealth taxes we had here in years before we have lost. It would be fascinating to hear his opinion on this subject and to see if such a tax should be restored. We see that property balance in Iceland, and now I'm floundering on property scale, not the balance of income that's considerable in this country, is quite high. There are some facts I would like to mention in this context: 1% of the richest Icelanders have more pure property than 80% of Icelanders. 1% has more than 80%. If we only grow the group, take the 5% richest Icelanders, they have almost as much soil as the other 95%. We'll see that this certainly is a wrong split here, so to speak. Less than half of all clean possessions produced in 2016 reached the richest 10% of the population - nearly half of the new possessions ran to the top of 10%. We see that there is a considerable amount of property in this country and one way to respond to it at the same time that we were strengthening government income resources to include. Face the decline we are living in today's world, it would be initiating a wealth tax. We could have him on a income-related basis, having a income-related financial tax to ensure that the people who paid the tax would also have some income to pay the tax. It would be fascinating to hear a brief answer. A senator and even his band took sides on a wealth tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I can say that the Central Party has not specifically developed a policy in terms of wealth taxes. Such taxes require natural research, quality and defects reporting, etc. There has been a view in the taxation that then the money will be looking abroad, and then the purpose may not be correct. But this is something we have not discussed within our ranks. But I'd like to say about the circumstances we are in right now that I think it's unwise to take special tax increases. We need to stimulate the economy, and I think that economics are not quite right at this point. On the other hand, I believe it would be wise for the government to delay the decline of the bank tax. I've talked about this, and I haven't agreed with the government policy to reduce the taxation of financial companies. I remind you, it's not only the bank tax that was due to go down now but it's been reduced to the deposit insurance and then also reduces the budget to the FDA, so it was to lower three taxes to the financial companies. I believe the government did the right thing with it, as I understand it, has happened to the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, standing to postpone a bank tax reduction. There's something in the tax system that could be done right away without any influence on the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u169	Mr. President. I'm not to be misunderstood. I don't think we're going to tax ourselves out of the contractions we experience here, quite contrary. I may be pointing to lost opportunities, that we should have produced a considerably more reasonable and more reasonable tax system when possible, when we were at the height of the fluctuation. But they did not listen, and today, of course, government funds are needed. Money doesn't grow on trees. They grow with the people and businesses in the country. In some way, we need to earn what they are requiring that we most agree on. I agree with what. Senator on the bank tax. To reduce the bank tax by 8 billion in one year was a very peculiar priority. His reduction is only being delayed for a year, and I don't think that's enough. The government was going to lower the bank tax by $18 billion. in four years. That's a huge amount of money at the same time as the welfare system. The education system gets hit a lot by its contractions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees that the planned reduction of the bank tax is unwise. Another one that is unwise about the planned reduction to be delayed for one year - first, I think it should be postponed by at least Three years in view of the fact that the next year's state funds are being looked at - that we have no guarantee that consumers in the country will benefit from a reduction in the tax. V.E.G. The minister of finance has said in a talk that he hopes that we will see evidence of paying for various bank services and possibly even interest. We have no guarantee of that. It's used to, I think, when they reduce their fees, it just goes to the bank's interest. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. A senator to drop the bank tax is a long - term unwise arrangement, especially in the coming year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u171	A respectable president. This is a very remarkable convolutation motion in which it is about a change in previous Congress policy resolution. It's not a revised Senate hearing, as I understand it, anyway, on the 10th floor. it's a government law. It specifically states that financial policy revision should include at least Five years old. I can't get out of the indiscriminate in this suggestion, that this is going to go from 2018/2022, it's changing older financial policy. There is nothing in the law that expects a change in financial policy. Rather, it is a new five - year financial policy just put forward, in the future, and not back in time. This rhymes with a bit of fun, so you can get it to, in that the purpose of financial policy is to meet certain baselines. Implementing financial policy should be the basis for keeping the baseline. By promoting financial policies, you show how you plan to handle government finances with caution. Change in financial policy - I don't see how it can be classified as gentle in itself. A document is being modified to be cautious. It's so post-a-wary, and it can never be careful. I wonder what. A senator has wondered about this, if he understands 1 0k. taking into account this decree of interpretation, how it fits together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It is certainly interesting how he has considered the laws on public financial matters in this regard. We have been naturally learning into these laws, and for the first time, we face this, just 14 months after the government's financial policy was adopted, that it needs to be revised. So, yes, it's come up a little interesting, I'll join with it at the right time. Senator. Besides, what's natural is right. A senator may not be warned afterwards, after the damage is done. In that respect, it is a very interesting subject. I think the point is, when a policy was taken, people did not listen adequately to those who criticized the laid down. We have business plans, industrial organizations, and financial councils that all warned that there were too much optimism in their work and then it comes during the day. I think they were not cautious enough. That must be the conclusion. Now we have reached the point where the government is facing a reexamination of this policy. I can't go deep into depression at any time. I can agree with him that we have entered a somewhat peculiar position. But hopefully we will find out how the law is actually working when such circumstances as these arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u173	A respectable president. Here we go. A senator into my interests about public financial laws, learning the law, or learning how it works. They are once in effect, and no matter how well we know how much they are, we should apply them. Of course, we're supposed to know the law, it's in effect. It would be strange if people could get together, if there were other laws, and say, "No, I don't really know the law, so I don't exactly follow them right now, or I'm ensuing them so I'm not going to follow them right away. I know I went over to red light, but I'm still ingesting it to follow the traffic rules. I'll just let it go now, but maybe next time I'll do it. Prior financial policy was put forward to demonstrate sustainability, caution, stability, stability and transparency. But we can see in this review - which is not a review but a change, a very strange - the confirmation that prior financial policy was not sustainable, protected, stable, and not characterized by firmness and transparency. It takes new ones to be careful and all those baseline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u174	Mr. President. I can agree with that. Senator. What I stressed in my presentation was that I don't feel that it's clear how exactly you need to reconsider your policy. We need to have some counsel on this. V.E.G. Secretary of finance spoke of reason. Yes, well, there are natural reasons for being reasonable when it comes to financial management. But we don't have to have, for example. some percent, worse results from domestic product than expected, etc.? When are we at this time point? The law is somewhat decisive that it must be, as I say, a national rage, as they say. There are quite large words, so I would have counted and stressed that we had better guidance in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u175	Mr. President. I would like to comment on this financial agenda in a brief talk. The first thing I want to draw attention to is that the government's financial policy is to do for five years, but this policy was only enough for over a year. That's too bad. We can also see that the economic reversal is the greatest crash in less than 30 years. I had a chance to do that earlier, in my opponent's case at the highest level. Secretary of finance, that the government not only has success in the economy but also, in the same way, a responsibility for the downturn can be attributed to something else. Of course I know that the economy is complex, and there are things that don't happen in government custody, such as hairy failures and so forth, so, of course, you can be fully reasonable in this matter. Still, there is special reason to note that the policy we address here was simply unrealistic. With President's permission, I said in my speech last year about the current financial policy we're changing here: Here we take a vote on a policy that will remain unchanged for five years. It's a course for almost all the stakeholders she's read. The policy is said to be a threat to stability, to be unrealistic, irresponsible, unremarkable, vague, unsullied, inexplicable, non-sustainable, lipophilic, and unfaithful. This is the assessment of experts and stakeholders. That's what I said last year about finance policy, and unfortunately, it's coming true. We specifically pointed out from this chair that policy was based on the idea that there would be a continuous economy for 14 years. Now I know the practicality pretty well, and it's hardly ever happened since Iceland. We're walking into seven, eight-year-old swingers. It is safe to build such a key plan, whether it is financial or financial, on such undefeated grounds. V.E.G. A minister will no doubt say that he is obliged to follow Haust's case, but it is a political decision on the basis of his policy and on the schedule. There's the politics. We were criticizing, not just us in the United States, but a lot of stakeholders, including the U.S.A. It's financial advice. Money Council is an independent phenomenon commanded by a minister. This recommendation stated that this course was impregnable. It said that there was a lack of income support on the one hand and the official infrastructure on the other. There is nothing to believe in the Conspiracy of Ágún Ólafi in these matters. It was a matter of interest and independence that pointed to it. This in itself is not to be surprising. Now we're experiencing a fluke in the economy. We're in a recession, the first recession since 2010, the first time we were afraid of being brought together for the first time in the last year. This swing is about 100 billion. The results of the government will continue to get worse by 40 billion in 2019, but they will also worsen for the next few years, with their land production being reduced. It's a permanent memory. Though economic growth will ever return, this blow, as it is in financial policy, is in the next five years, about 40 to 46 billion each year. This is no small amount. With this amount, we could double our money to the entire University of Iceland. We could four times as many children's relief systems as possible for this amount. We could take away a penny in return to a dollar for microfowl three times, not one third, as the government is doing today. This is the real deal we're dealing with. A minister has talked about the need for practical measures, he has said so, but little answers about the nature of these measures. Yes, he has mentioned that a bank tax decline should be delayed for a year. That's all. He has also said that the rest of the Kingdom treasure should be dried up, but that is not enough. It's not enough to face this crisis in the face. We have yet to answer. Who will be hit? Is it desperate, or is it elderly? Are they students? Is it teachers or nurses? Is it cops? We need some action. I've spoken for a more righteous tax system, but I'd like to reiterate that I'm not talking about paying taxes out of this down cycle. But you can certainly have a more reasonable tax system. I don't see any particular reason for having a system where fishing costs, which are costing access to one of the earth's best fish resources, are similar to the tobacco tax, the tax we pay on cigarettes, about 8◯9% of the population smoke. I have no doubt pointed out that here are people who have bigger sheets than others. We have an enormous amount of property, we have 1% of the population of people with over 80%. There's a group that can stand a higher tax rate, especially when there's a recession in the economy. We should be very determined to point out such solutions. In answer to my minister's objection to travel services - so I'll underline it, I'm not presenting an increase in tax returns to tourism. What I meant, and it was said that income measures had been neglected in the past. We should have taken such steps when we were successful in this article. In this regard, there is a lost opportunity. At this point, it may well not be the time to introduce it. I'd also like to go over the basics next year, i.e. What this new course of action is built, which I think may not be long either. It would be terrible for us to start changing the financial policy that's supposed to be a bus for five years every year. But how interesting it is that for the next five years, the gangs of the Crown are expected to remain unchanged! In what world are humans really in? In the last 15 years, there has been no success of any currency in OECD. A dollar is a surprise to no one, but it is assumed here that for the next five years the gangs will remain the same. Similarly, inflation is predicted to be similar to what had been foretold. That's a lot of wishful thinking. We now see that the dollar has dropped in one year by 13 percent. It's such a rule that one-third of it is entering the prices. Only this reduction should lead to an increase of one to two years in 4% of inflation. Of course I hope that doesn't happen. I think the walk will even yield more in the fall when the stream of tourists goes down a little bit. Similarly, there is a requirement for economic growth to be received very quickly next year and in the years to come. It is also quite optimistic. Business is getting worse in the world. The economy in many parts of the world is agitated, and we face a difficult situation in the tourism service, the drop of an airline, the addition of other airlines, a failure of hairy behavior, a change in temperature, so there is considerable luminance in this regard. Unemployment is expected to change little from earlier predictions, even though only in March, 1,600 people were out of work. It was about 6,800 people out of work. It was added to 1,600 people. It's like everyone in a job market at Isafjordir had lost their job on one board. Each percentage of rising unemployment costs 6.5 billion, so this is also a questionable premium in my opinion. Mr. President. We need to get better discussions about this on the committee as well as perhaps in this room, on the basis of the proposal. We also see that while this transition in policy, we are discussing the financial agenda. The government's suggestions on changing the budget are yet to be received. We're talking about policy and then the plan. We see in the political program, and we already see in financial programs, which, of course, will change because their economic numbers have changed, there were some bad news. As if for the next five years, housing funds were to be reduced by 19% according to the current strategy. Transport should be reduced by 15% for the next five years. Culture and art and youth language were to be reduced by 7%. Nurse service, the nursing home was to decrease by 4% for the next five years. These are all the numbers that will only get worse because this is a plan based on an older economy that has now become considerably blacker.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u176	A respectable president. We have already discussed whether the underlying economic forecasts of financial plans, or after financial policies, are too optimistic and may be correct, as it were. A senator certainly noted here in his day that the development of economic development would be in some other way. But when that discussion was presented at the time, there was trouble. A senator for more government expenses and more taxes. If you were to follow the course he then spoke to the reality that we now see, you might ask: " Would it have been reasonable to take another 25How many billion and have it now and have it in force higher than you can see? Would that have been good policy? [[The president calls.]] And what should we do besides being built on public forecasts?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u177	Mr. President. It was pointed to last year, including By a financial body that the government is going the worst way, it would be raising government spending in certain areas, leaving others behind, and lowering taxes at the same time. This was done in a time of great expansion. This was pointed to as an economic error. What we in the United States suggested was that we could raise certain taxes, but we shouldn't increase taxes in general on people in the country. We talked about it, and make it still, that resource costs could be higher here, a wealth tax that was up to 10 billion when it could be quite higher. Let's start with 4 billion bucks. It's a fortune tax. It all counts into the government business. Not to be overlooked is the fact that when we neglect public investments, economic growth suffers over time. investing in the government is a good investment, for neglecting it will affect us in the future. I know there's no simple way in this regard, and I know there's a lot of things in this downturn that's not of the Minister's responsibility. Still, much could be done better in the economy, and we in the United States and other classes have shown responsibility for the possible routes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u178	A respectable president. If we had a plan that was not good for economic growth, being to lower taxes, I now indicate that everything is changed, and now is just a good time to lower taxes. We expected tax reductions to take effect during the planned period. With the same reasoning, with the arguments used to help prevent a tax fall in the past, one must agree with the tax reduction now. That's why it's strange. A senator may once again have spoken about tax returns, or would he not have wanted to lower the taxes again, which he thought would be such a good idea to raise some 25 to 6 billion a year and meet a year? Of course, it reduces the economy. I just have to say to all the critical voices that have appeared as many of them are upbuilding and good for a long time, and we take along, including In preparing this policy, I have not seen the evidence that we have gone off track. We can't see them in the prenuptial power of homes. [[The president calls.]] We do not see the signs that we have been on our wrong way to State debt development; neither do we see them in in inflation; nor do we see them at the interest level; nor do we see the government's rates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u179	Mr. President. It's the highest. There's no sign that a minister has derailed us? We experience the greatest reversal in the economy for less than 30 years, except for the collapse. We can see that most economic predictions are beginning to decline, that prospects are getting worse. In fact, many economic predictions are too optimistic. 1,600 people lost their jobs last month. [[Take it up: How about...]] We see that today's economy is nothing to cry out to. Only about the taxes. When she was on the command, the alliance certainly suffered tax losses, but we have reduced the taxes on ordinary people. We've dropped individual income taxes by raising the person's discount. We even dropped the capital tax, but how did we do it? We introduced a cut-off target as tax deduction of 90% of taxpayers. We have even dropped taxes on a business, but how did we do that? We've created tax reimbursement for investments in shares of innovation companies. We all lost the value tax with the effort. [[The president calls.]] The tax may well be reduced, Mr. President, but let's do it for the people of the country, not for the sake of the rich and the monasteries. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u180	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk. Senator. I was disappointed in the way he approached the subject. Well, as often before, the bottle is half empty. That's usually the way it works. I'm sorry, Senator. I just want to ask you what. A senator: What suggestions does he have? We're dealing with a down cycle in the economy. There's no debate. I hope so. A senator shares my hope and optimism, i.e. this is going to be a very temporary downturn. Counts 'em out. A senator's natural action on the part of the government, and what would he want to see will be different from that of a new financial policy and a review of the existing financial program? It is one thing to criticize, but it is another to give upbuilding suggestions that seem unconcerned. A senator very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u181	Mr. President. I was criticized from that chair last year for being too pessimistic. Now I'm similarly criticized, but I say that perhaps we who made that warning might have been better heard last year. Hv. There is no need for those in the council to accept us in a position of government. Just listen to the stakeholders, the union of employment, trade agencies, labor agencies, and financial agencies as the highest level. A minister even commands himself. They all felt the same way. It was said from stakeholders that the policy is a threat to stability, unrealistic, irresponsible, unsolved, vague, involuntary, inexplicable, conservative, dangerous, and unfaithful policy. These are all words coming from the comments of stakeholders on current policies. I have certainly not been shy about pointing out ways to make things right. I have felt free to talk about certain tax changes and have been ashamed of them because of my circumstances. A senator proclaiming nothing but tax increases. But I am not afraid to review the potential routes of income that the state should certainly consider, whether in the thawing or in the contraction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u182	Mr. President. Of course, it is possible to have a long handful of empty words. I was asking who. A senator's opinion was that he should deal with the situation in which he lived. He indicates then that he wondered to return to the old sarp, his own sarp, who is raising taxes on the public and business. That's what I'm talking about. A senator will resort, but that is a way that humans have used here with disastrous results. Is it true that the only plan as the Conspiracy, and what? A senator who represents her on a financial committee, has brought up a discussion about new financial policies or its reviews is raising the budget for the public and the business? Yes or no? Or there are other options in his mind, e.g. to give up only from the public and the company? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u183	Mr. President. So I'm completely clear, the Consequences don't intend to raise taxes on the public in the country, they're not going to. Hv. A senator seems to have the erroneous notion that money simply grows on trees. If we're going to invest in promises, ours and yours, we'll need tax returns. As far as I know, the Independence Party was the highest promise of the last election, about 100 billion. I didn't see that number in any company's campaign policy, no more than an independent campaign, that's what they were going to put into public infrastructure. Where would they come from? We have repeatedly noted that the cost of fishing is completely unnatural and that it is similar to the way tobacco costs. We have kept asking why we should not view wealth taxes at the same time as we have increasing property balance. Why can't we talk about it? Why does a capital tax have to be the lowest in Iceland of all the North countries? [[The president calls.]] Why does he have to be the lowest in here? These are the income measures we're supposed to be free to discuss, and I've been, most certainly. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u184	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson opened his speech by mentioning that the government's policy should last five years but would have been enough for over a year. He then followed through by saying that this has been the biggest blow in 30 years. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator would correct me if it wasn't so. Then came the reason. In effect, a senator has reason to believe that we are following the fundamental national forecast. I agree with what. A senator that we certainly do not tax ourselves out of this sudden downturn. I'd like to ask for plans in general. Instead of tying with the premeditated results, are there not ways to act wisely when basic employers have smiled, as in this case? [[The president calls.]] Isn't that the one that the law's baseline force is pushing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u185	Mr. President. Of course, we have to be firm, that's exactly what we pulled up here last year, and we're doing now. The downturn we experience now is not to be surprising. A lot of people warned about it. In fact, many of us in our government opposition and others pointed out that it would be unwise to assume a 14 - year - long economic growth. We pointed out that there were flashes of tin in the air. Now this contraction has become what we talked about last year, so it can't be said that this is an example of a firm and responsible work ethic. We can say we told you this last year. You just didn't listen to us, and that's a big disappointment. Of course, there's a plan to be updated, but I often feel that there's a mix-up between predictions and plans. The values that are all based on here are simply too optimistic and unrealistic, based on wishful thinking. It's all right to have a plan that allows for a soft landing or a contact landing, but we need to have realistic predictions. It is not realistic to assume that the Icelandic king's gang will not be moving in the next five years. [[The president calls.]] It is not realistic to assume that oil prices will not change anything, that inflation will not rise, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u186	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator may have misunderstood the question. I'm talking about firmness in government financial policy, and that's what matters. I'm talking about the foreboding that is necessary for the money policy to develop in the same direction. We saw a recent drop in growth. This may be because there is an increase in the amount of laws in general. Hv. A senator noted that the phase of maintenance was not sufficient and that financial counsel criticized it. It is true that the yield was not great, but it accepts the rapid decline of three fourths. Then you can build in and be dealing with financial criticism with uncertainty, not true. Senator? I wonder why. A senator believes that this uncertainty bed should have been more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u187	Mr. President. It's a real pleasure to know that there was an uncertainty gap. I couldn't bring it into my speech. It's a new concept. It's not in the law. As far as I'm concerned, this is simply a cover-up for the government. This is where the angle is set. At the same time, a minister may say: Yes, the government's finances are balanced or above zero. I don't think that's a good way to work or a good political bitch. Whether the uncertainty range should be more or higher just needs to be evident. This uncertainty shift can be seen in the first table of financial policy and is very peculiar, at least As far as I'm concerned. It's odd that this is simply not in public hearings. There's a hole in talking about leadership. We spoke a few months ago exactly as this is being done, and now we're talking about how the government's punching is going to be, not just 2019 billion when it's downturned, but for the next five years. What's the good news about it? [[The president calls.]] But the government is throwing down all warnings and just wants to see the sunshine. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, a specialist in the field of research and in the administrative body suggests that at some point a cloud may be exposed to the sun. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u188	My president will attend a scheduled talk period of one minute in each answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u189	Mr. President. I'd like to say something here, and they're even more relevant to the council if the situation was that one of them had ventured to the end of the course than the eight currently listed there is no member of the council. So I have to ask. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson I pondered those words in the council arrangement for leeway. A senator spoke. It says that there is a lesson to be learned from a situation that has come up, to build more space in financial policy, and to make it beneficial. I want to hear what I see. A senator sees it. In fact, it was only in the final answer, but I ask if this should be done with a view to preventing such a situation from returning. No matter what people think about politics and government, it is not acceptable for us to be here repeatedly and always in the rearview mirror because the songs presented have a short life span. [[The president calls.]] See what? A senator realizes that we could, in fact, come to a greater sense of solidarity about working it differently with more transparent and more leeway and for the good? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u190	The President still reminds me of the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u191	Mr. President. Yeah, I think so. If I'm going to give an answer to some senators I'm not about to do, in fact, I have high regard for the chairman of the Board of Justice Willum Þór Þórsson, I think we share that opinion, so I'll answer a question. A senator and also a chairman of the Committee, how important it is to respect the baseline value of public funds. That's the five values: sustainability, caution, stability, fixation and transparency. In fact, none of them are fulfilled, if we consider these things fairly, but we need to respect them. Since we are making these laws - they in themselves are not old, public financial laws are from 2015 - it is important that we succeed. I don't think that's really happening right now. We are to be very willing to change both course and schedule, if necessary. We saw it, for example. ... witha financialprogram last year. We received many reviews, but a financial committee didn't change anything. It's a little strange that we're holding a huge meeting of the budget board and getting all these reports that give the opinion of about 5,000 billion dollars. Plans and we will not make any changes in the affairs of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's a little strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u192	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer, and I hope that when the dust sits down after this discussion, we will be able to learn a lesson from this and correct the process. I want to pray. A senator putting on his fortune hat. He mentioned the earlier economic strategies that would be predictable in the coming financial program. There has been a small increase in the rate of government spending on a variety of business projects and then a grand promise of infrastructure. It is not a simple project that awaits the highest. Governments. Who gets hit like a dog? A senator expressed it earlier? What does it look like? A senator? I'm begging you. A senator apologizes for going to these exercises here, but if all he can offer is to have such a conversation only with the government council members, then it must be so. Wait a minute. Senator going to these rehearsals with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u193	Mr. President. Excited island, straitjackets, straitjackets, straitjackets, straitjackets - ten times in the financial process. Yes, we are putting ourselves in a certain straitjacket. This says financial advice, which is an independent advice at the highest level. As a minister of finance, the problem may be at home in this regard. Hv. A senator also asks how we soften our blow. Yes, we need to soften the blow. I'm a spokesman for our use of government funds. We're supposed to dust up Keynes' theories, which exactly spoke of the public's role in subtracting, that we're creating a ravishing position in the state to protect the welfare system, schools, etc. This is done by both changing the focus on government matters and by making changes in financial matters. ... ina taxset. We cannot talk about government matters without talking about taxes and where the tax burden should be and whether to reduce or increase it. It's the big politics in this case that the right men are way too shy to talk to me about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u194	A respectable president. Steps on the Great Art of Forms that just wants the law to be followed because a certain example is being set here. Here is a review of the laws on public finances for the first time, and there is a relatively strict phrase in this article on national and economic breakdown and similar conditions that are not listed, but they must be as serious as those terms. The law also speaks of a review of financial policy - not a change in financial policy but a review of financial policy - should apply five years of age. This is not a revised financial policy, nor does it apply to five years of age because it works back in time and can hardly be counted in those years. The discussion has shown that it is careful to review financial policies, since previous financial policy was clearly not sufficiently cautious, and this is shown to be very careful three times in current financial policy. On one occasion, it is stated that caution should be exercised, once defined as being cautious, and once to mention that there was an interference analysis, although it was not taken into account that if it became a reality, there would be room to deal with it. I think it's getting better now with some uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Perhaps there could be a roof in the other direction, on a fee, so if economic growth became much greater than predicted, it would eliminate this repeated temptation for the government to take on these extra wages with all severity. There would be some braking in that direction too. The situation has been compared to, e.g. in kitchen days' discussion of a member of the budget board, vice president there, a specific contact landing in the economy. At the same time, we are responding to a review of financial policies because of national or economic collapse. This calls the vice president of a economic landing. These two things don't go together. I find it quite normal to call for support for what is said in the revision - which does not seem to be followed, although it is all that can be used to promote a new financial policy - on available resources. What has been the reaction of all available measures? What opportunities do we have to deal with the decline that is going on? There is no discussion of other possible procedures and how far they would go. Also, the role of reserves is not considered, but it goes up by 20 billion between the same years in a current financial programme and in the current Council for discussion. There should be some way to take to him. There is no explanation of how much of the down cycled reserve is really taking. We have a huge number of questions about how this downturn is being financed, if one is going to get to zero and fulfill the financial agenda. When it comes to the question of financial planning, we receive a message on the history and answer that the freezing of a unit's Slurpee Fund, which was presented as a government policy in a financial program for the Generals, all of a sudden nothing is in the maps. She was just an experiment, a test, if any contracts were to get through it while the Allied Council was covering the financial program. It's not acceptable that the Council has to discuss government policies that do not work, that there's some sort of Schrudginger effect there. It is not acceptable for the Council to deal with such problems. You see, we have an enormous lack of transparency, both in financial policy at baseline, the way they are fulfilled, as I spoke of by the careful ones earlier. There is no explanation why financialism is based on careful viewpoints. Clearly, there is no transparency in financial policy and much less that change in the synopsis of financial policy. What evidence should I look to regarding these criteria and changes? Is the evidence in changing current financial policy, is this evidence that these baselines are fulfilled? It's not explained, over and over, how they measure the baseline values. Yes, it is explained that changing financial policy is careful, but economicism is originally meant to be cautious. According to my knowledge, there was no caution in current financial policy. There are so many things in this case that make me trouble, not just my formality. There are some contradictions in this. The development of the policy should ensure that these baseline values, but then the baseline values should be ensured by changing them. These two things don't work. In connection with a financial program designed to be based on financial policy, we are now on the final scale with financial contributions. We've had every guest meeting on the financial program, and we've seen some real changes in it. We have no idea what changes it is, what topic fields, what the amount is in the subject field, or whether the changes are just in the leftovers and the reserves. Based on the figures put together, leftovers, reserves, and various items, it could possibly be for this difference. You don't know, you don't see it, for example. Because financial programs themselves are not transparent. The costs and benefits of the financial programme cannot be included. There is no way to examine the priority list and say: All right, if a downturn becomes and we don't quite get as much money as we can pay to meet the financial agenda, we just see in the priority list of jobs that will not be carried out. It's totally missing. You're just in the dark with what we're dealing with, both in financial and financial issues, and the latter is about making changes that we don't have time to get reviews about. Yet, these changes will be worth tens of billions. It's just something to sign at the end of the council and shovel here. The handling of financial policy, which is not really a law on government law, but the interpretation of how to reevaluate financial policies in time and so on, leads to our becoming involved with the same financial problems. It is based on policy, and there can be an obstacle to financial policies. Just to mention a few examples of the problems we are in: we have, for example. no response to the impact of biographies on financial programmes. It seems that most of them are already in a financial programme, but now it is being changed from this financial agenda so that the question marks the extent to which the biographies are even bigger. Granted, we are in a huge inner debt, and considering the financial agenda, as if to change it now, we are not expected to receive a loan to support that project. I don't know why, you might consider having some sort of balance there. Yes, it is not to pay off debts as much as expected, but there is room to cope with such swings by borrowing instead of - well, whatever to do, at least you can't see it. [[The president calls.]] We're running out of time. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary. Thank you for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. He listed himself here as a man of form, and I can totally agree with that. Over the years, working with what. A senator at night. Legal committee, that's what I'm talking about. A senator is very perceptive in the laws and laws of the law, and that's what matters. That's what I'm going to say and thank you for that. But I think about it. A senator enters the baselines, which are part of the form, and he should direct the movement when making decisions based on this direction and plan. I appreciate one aspect of our learning in this process. A financial agency has criticized the government for landing on the floor of a policy which shows up in a very low concentration level, let's say, about 1% of the gross domestic product in this policy. Now we have a new economy that says there's an offer, a quick downturn, where uncertainty factors have really gotten more real. Then we need to respond, respond to adjustments. Then we come to the question: Should we do so in the form and take steps to establish a financial program that will handle the 40 billion revenues, or shall we say, "Why don't we just take this and watch the direction? " [[The president calls.]] Why don't we, instead of binding ourselves in the premeditated conclusion, respond to the changes and look at reason, sustainability, and stability?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u196	A respectable president. That is exactly what I mentioned in my reply to the minister of finance. There are ways to back up a financial review program in this, because there is no definition of what's a national problem, what's a financial problem, what's the percentage change in what would be considered an economic breakdown. If the government were to say that this decrease in economic forecasts was an economic crisis, it is simply an example. There is no argument that could be challenged as such because we did not have what seemed to be a economic crisis or national threat before we started this process. There's a bit of open space to say, "This is it. The present situation is this because of these factors. There's definitely a way to explain this. Of course, this is how you can respond with the review article. I'm calling for the argument behind it because I can't find it. I can provide such support, maybe hold him at the financial council, maybe not. But there's no reason here. I don't know how that goes with the financial council. We're supposed to be baseline, but we're not even trying to explain how they live up to their baseline value in this change. As I mentioned before, I feel like it's kind of backwards to make it this way afterwards. If this is to be a change in financial policy rather than a review of financial policy, it would have to be a requirement to bring up a new financial policy for the next five years, just as it goes and through financial policy to begin with. Now we are involved in an interpretation of Article 10. which is a change in financial policy, something completely different from Article 10. I think I'm walking out the door. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u197	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is to try to lead the next question on the basis of the answer. Senator. This report gives reasons why we should react to the long - term challenges we face. This is a balance of pay and income, i.e. the zero if we talk about it like that. Then we build this uncertainty gap where I think we're learning from financial criticism, including and getting rid of these straitjackets because we need to look at the long term sustainability and stability. But the question is, What is the wise course? Stick to the spending plans? In that case, we need to keep our eyes fixed on 10 to 12 billion things, which are in a financial program. Here it is assumed that there is no problem with uncertainty. Rather, there is the possibility if the assumptions are worse than the predicted one. I heard what it was like. A senator would like this tool. [[The president calls.]] I ask: If it had been more than that, how could it have been explained how much it should have been? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u198	President. So I'm as clear with it as I can, the reasons I feel in this suggestion for change are simply: because we need to, that's, of course, the basis for the adjustment. It is accepted that prior financial policy simply did not anticipate economic declines, and that is why we are here. If there had been an initial assumed down cycle in financial policy, we wouldn't have to pick it up. Then it would be possible to walk onto this uncertainty bed. I think you could quite define the uncertainty range just beyond that, depending on how much difference between economic forecasts and then the reality of how it changes. If there are 2% of economic downturns, then there may be 1% of the uncertainty vector or something like it, perhaps half of it, in an effort to break something back. [[The president calls.]] But this is more complex than that, and there is a lack of growth in both financial and financial policies so as to be able to answer it accurately, since there are other factors to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. Hv. A senator has at times been criticized for being a formalist. Actually, he's my favorite formalist in the government law, and maybe there's a good reason for the Congress to be a bigger formalist in this. In fact, government financial laws were designed to establish firmness and forethought in the terms of financial matters, and they were decided on the basis of their work. That is not what we see so clearly today. I wanted to ask you what. A senator to only one of the early ones that are cautious. I have been very concerned with the claims of the Commission from the beginning and, in fact, since the first financial policy, I have been thinking of some kind of careist that the government will simply be in financial and financial policies to take into account current economic forecasts at any given time and cannot compromise. That is exactly when we come to the basic question of safeness in both policy and strategy. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't agree with me that it must be important - just when there are safety signs in the economy, when a lot of stakeholders warn that economic factors are at best very optimistic, even completely unrealistic - to be careful and not to play the most dangerous game, as was evidently done in this case? Would it not be normal, in view of the fact that we also want to have a degree of flexibility in the financial affairs in order to cope with a more difficult time, that the management is simply more careful and leave more space in the economic climate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u200	A respectable president. I feel like we're swinging a little like leaves in the wind in these economic conditions, both in recent years, in the swing, and now in the down cycle. The economic crisis had not come because of government policy. There were more tourists here, and a mackerel came swimming in here into the jurisdiction. It wasn't the government that said: " We're gonna get more mackerel into the jurisdiction. ' Similarly, governments now say that the downturn is not their fault either. We're somewhere in there, and we're beating like leaves in the wind, and nothing we do is clearly affecting anything. But that's not how science works. We have influence. I think government policy has influenced the growing number of tourists. I name Inspired by Iceland. It was an excellent initiative, and it definitely had an effect. I also think the financial administration that has so far been in the uplift has affected our looking at the exact plans here, perhaps not because of the fur, but possibly because of changes in tourism. Therefore, caution must be exercised. Something may arise that we cannot control. The caution must be seen in the presence of variations, where it is expected to be reacted if it becomes more severe, then the course or plan says: "We'll do this here so that we don't get hurt. We will show that by means of certain measures, if we are affected by abnormalities, we will restore ourselves to the right. It is the lack of caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u201	Mr. President. This is the question of caution. We are dealing with economic predictions that we well know are inaccurate. We usually know that the only sure thing about them is that they will not follow through. We also know that economic forecasts tend to underestimate both economic growth and decline. Economic growth tends to become more powerful than economic forecasts are expected when we are on the rise, for the Icelandic economy is one of the most swinging things in the world. Similarly, inefficiency has been a tendency to become deeper than economic forecasts were expected. We have rarely predicted contractions. He just comes in and usually gets pretty sharp. Similarly, economic growth becomes stronger than we predict. Then you wonder: " Is it not important for governments to be much more cautious and to leave more rest that may, at the same time, create the scope that is often called for expansion when suddenly contracting, as is usually the case in this economy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u202	A respectable president. That's exactly what this addition, the tax-grad space, I think is an excellent supplement for the science we were going over. Only better definitions are missing behind them. Yes, it's the rule of thumb: If it goes worse than economic forecasts can be assumed to be on this uncertainty bed. But we're so transparent in it all, so I don't think we're going to know exactly if it's happening, whether it's going worse, or if it's for other reasons that it's going to be gone on, i.e. if that's what it's gonna be. I agree that this, as I mentioned earlier, may also go the other way, that if economic growth is on the edge of a blues, as it has been, and there is a much higher profit forecast by the expense gate in order to achieve a better outcome. If economic predictions were accurate, the outcome would likely have been higher in financial policy and financial planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u203	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. In many respects, I find it interesting how you feel. A senator has drawn close to caution, and his baseline values are very important in these matters. Besides, I agree with you. A senator's need to be quite clear when a policy is reviewed. In fact, there is no guidelines except for what is said in the law, words like segregation. There would have to be a definition of the degree of reversal when it comes to national production. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me in that it would have been better and, in fact, necessary for us to have had the financial jurisdiction before going into this discussion. It is a natural financial body that determines whether governments are on the right side of this matter. We have nothing to rely on in this regard. V.E.G. A minister says it was wise to reexamine policy. We need to have something more solid in our hands than that, and that is why I stressed in my speech that this need to be done, that there was a need for visualization and analysis so that the Generals could have more data and information in their hands, and including the review of the financial Council, to give careful discussion on this subject. I'm asking for a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u204	A respectable president. I'm going back to be a little more formalist. The first round. In general, we will discuss the matter and reason for its contribution. That's where we're identifying and passing the basic logic of the case from the minister's hand. As a result, between discussions, we get reviews and further experts'opinions in the bigger context. A little time, then, has come to distinguish the matter and other details. The ability to enter a later issue, which is more accurate, is based on the reviews, I think that is a key factor in the traditional procedure of Congress. Of course, it would be good to have the review of a financial Council as an attachment to financial and financial policies, but this is not necessary. It'd be nice to have it, but it fits the point of whether it's the model. I can totally agree that it would be good, it would be a different arrangement, nothing bad to have that arrangement, but it works exactly on the other side too. I often point out that in some cases both can be true. People often forget when two people are reasoning, that there are not only others who are right, both of them can be right. And both can be wrong, which often goes forgotten. The tendency is to look at some argument, when two are taking a blow to the mouth, and to say that one is working when both can be wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We may come back to the fact that we have relatively recent laws that we are learning. Yet, they are in effect, such as hell. A senator rightly mentioned. We may be confronted with the first reevaluation of policy, a relatively recent policy. In this context, it would have been preferable to have some evidence, although it is true that we are in the process of reporting, etc., as the case goes to the committee and is addressed there. Nevertheless, I would have thought that it would be necessary to be clear when the policy should be revised. What if financial advisers discover that policies may have been unnecessary? Where, then, are we? I'm rolling it up. It may be unlikely, but it's all right to look at these aspects on the case, as far as I'm concerned, we'll have to have special evidence to follow through on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u206	A respectable president. I think I'm aware of a problem. Senator. In this suggestion, there is simply no reason why we need to reconsider our policy. I could imagine some arguments that could be used, but they are not used. That's why we don't have anything. That's why there's so much need. A senator considered a financial body because we do not have enough evidence from a minister to determine whether we feel that there are variations in economic forecasts that are natural to classify as economic or national problems. Without it, we're naturally in a bit of trouble. What I'm doing is criticizing the form, that the law we're not supposed to be studying on, and taking in, etc. ... butit's still local. Yes, once again I have to complain that the law is not being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u207	Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to have a certain sympathy by not sitting in the halls and listening to the take of two financial policies. But there was a pact to the highest. To some extent, a minister of finance would be in the hall, listening to and participating in discussions. I've got to go to the top. The President to make sure that this agreement is respected. And then I have to take this opportunity, since I'm standing here, and declaring that I really miss being a friend of the left green in the audience, especially those who have talked about from this platform having conversation with the people, so that I testify in the words of the former speaker. It would be interesting to know why they have less but no interest in participating in this second attempt to disseminate financial policies. They come to that door and I would really like to get them to participate in the discussion. But the highest. The secretary of finance would like to be accepted into the hall as agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u208	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker, it's a minimum requirement. Economic and financial ministers sit in the hall when we discuss the revised government financial policy until 2022, no less. There's a lot under there. When we discuss this important document, which should be the basis for financial planning and next year's financial initiatives, Minister's out of the room. Not just that, but that's extremely few of them. Councilmen who support the government in the hall. They're not coming up here to talk to the board about this important document. Perhaps they don't trust themselves to do so, at least there are very few who are. Councilmen in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u209	A respectable president. Still, you have to commend yourself. The chairman of the budget for participating in discussions here, and before that, a minister has answered the first two speakers. But I often do that when I give a talk, it runs away. Secretary of finance, will not be seen in the Senate Hall. As time goes on, it is fun to learn it gradually. His glasses were on the table, maybe it'll help him see something here. I was going to mention it in my speech earlier, but I now take advantage of this opportunity to miss the fact that the executives bring economic policy to us and explain their views, the reasons why financial policy needs to be revised, and what their view of reevaluating financial policy to the next year. So I use this opportunity again and again, I ask, "Why isn't financialism until the next five years, why does it cover the past?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u210	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by repeating that I don't have anything to do with the conference board. President to check. Four talks have been held during discussions with this group. V.E.G. With history, a minister responded to all categories of the government. Then there are three talks, and all of us who belong to the administrative parts have answered in all those talks so that this will be made clear. I don't think there's much more to be expected. V.E.G. A minister has answered two of the three talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u211	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to have two main theme discussions in this first talk about the revised financial policy of the government. It is the important baseline value of the state's budget, as laid down in the government laws on government finance, that are about to be careful and sustainable. I have to admit that I have been shocked by the presentation of the greater part here when it became clear that financial policy needs to be revised and, as a result, have made significant changes in the financial program that is relatively recent on the part of the government. Both the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, and indeed most of the officials of the government, have spoken of this as if it were doing some remarkable economic achievement and the government was performing a unique responsibility in terms of government funds. It will be a little awkward when you remember that no matter how the situation is viewed, the exact same mistake has been made in the management of the state's budget now and during the last interest rate, between 2003/2007/2008, and the economic growth in the preceding years. This was exactly what the civil law was intended to address. We can see that the annual increase in Kingdom spending in fixed prices during these periods is completely comparable, both when we take the economic growth from 1994 to 2000 and then again the economic growth from 2003 to 2008. In fact, annual spending increases are much more during this last economy than at the time, so it was the declared objective of this government to place some kind of Iceland record in the increase of government budgets. It is also a bit fun to bear in mind that the Independence Party has conducted the government of the state of government during all three economic growths, more and less through them all, and boasts of its marvelous success in the responsible government of government. The irresponsibility of the State Department is absolute, and that is now triune. Is it not said: All things are already three? Maybe it's best that the Independence Party lets the Ministry of finance later on. Clearly, the category cannot be trusted with the government. Even after all the work that was laid on government law, which was to increase the maintenance of discipline under the state's terms, it is still broken off by any means available, and it is replaced by a new level of payment. This is the responsibility of the Independence Party in government affairs. You see, it is very simple to control the financial resources of Iceland during economic development. Our economy is the most swinging thing in the Western world, and we are well aware of it. This has always been the case so that in the economic climate, financial resources are as never before poured into the wealth of the state. Then it is so important that every time the government would be able to advise, be cautious, just as I mentioned earlier. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, that we may be inclined to underestimate the swing and thus underestimate the decline. Beware is about having a table for the money money, watching us in the cost interest, and, in fact, should be able to be careful enough in the swing, have even gathered up space in the rise to cope with the temporary down cycle at this time. There's another thing that's a bit Colombian in the discussion all over, i.e. that the downturner we look forward to seems to be at the highest level of both. A government may be trivial and temporary, but at the same time one of the greatest economic difficulties we have experienced in the past 30 years and therefore it is necessary to reevaluate financial policies. I'd like to know if this is: Is this a slight temporary downturn or a major economic breakdown requiring a review of financial policy? Both at the same time cannot be. What is more concerned is when it comes to the long - term benefits of government spending. It is happening during the day, which was warned on the immediate basis of this cohesion that this is a toxic cocktail on the journey, where a new record would be struck at the same time by a new rate, a large attendance at every language field, as it was called, on the contrary to all warnings and not just a smaller section of the council, but a number of experts, to warn that it was absolutely irresponsible to trust in a continuous 14 - year economic growth. It's also spoken as if these developments were completely by surprise. At any given time, then, it may be minimally necessary to turn to the government to have the minimal knowledge of the Icelandic economy. It is true that when the Icelandic economy has reached a similar imbalance, as was evident in 2017 in 2018, it has always been - I always underlined, Mr. President - gone the same way. There has always been a standard amount of correction when that situation exists. That is exactly what the Council of Business warned of in its review of the previous financial policy of this government, saying that it would be completely unrealistic to trust that it would be different now, because we are one of the most swinging economys in the world, thanks to the rest of the world. Our fine Icelandic crown. You ask yourself, " Why on earth did the government not show more caution on that occasion? ' Why were repeated warnings ignored? And how's the top drop? The secretary of finance to appear here and describe the reaction of the government, in the past unrecognizable condition of the recent financial achievements, when waste ears had been exposed to repeated warnings? It brings back the thought of the long - term benefits of government spending. When you have increased government spending as much as you can see, and you are going to try to increase the current downturn, we must ask ourselves: " Does the holding of the revenue fund under this spending level for the long term, when you have set the spending to the top point of the economy and then plan on trying to continue to increase your expenses to some extent? ' I think it must be obvious to every reasonable person that it is completely unrealistic to believe that it can. As a result, it is shown in the revised financial policy of this government that the state's funds would be at best, in view of very optimistic economic predictions in view of the present state's situation, at zero, very likely in a four - year continuous battle. In fact, it seems entirely clear to me that the government will violate the laws on public financial affairs on public affairs unless there is a major objection. For simple reasons, looking into the economics they are developing in these days. The economic forecast we now have assumes relatively modest contractions of tourism. We're seeing a hell of a lot more contractions going down. Travelers warn that nothing in the maps points to a quick reversal next year. On the contrary, it is more likely that next year too will be a great challenge. We assume that this great lulls down the tourism service with furturbing, which is also unable to determine what is going to happen next year, has no other impact on the economy, that other articles are going to make it look like nothing. On the contrary, we see that the brakes in the economy are becoming obvious to each person. [[The president calls.]] Without too much pessimism, it is obvious that the crisis will be larger than expected in current economic forecasts, it will be more chronic, and the financial situation will have to take it into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u212	A respectable president. I have to say, I don't recognize this economy as bad. A senator is describing. I can't believe people come and say, "Hey, it's just the same thing that happened ten years ago. We're making the same mistake again. Wait, what's the difference? Let's watch basic sizes. Shall we discuss business balance? We spent 25% of our lives at the time, but we've had the rest of the business between the last few years and the last 715 billion. See what? A senator can't tell the difference? What about taking the nation's clean standing with respect to foreign countries, which was negative at 5% 2015 but now positive at 597 billion? Have they not noticed that this has been a continuing price? Although we have had a fall by contraction in tourism, we have a very high job level. To compare someone with the economy as it was, of course, is unbelievable. This is a whole different economy with 2 million tourists. [[The president calls.]] When there are mood swings in some sector, there are challenges. [[The president calls.]] But we'll get through it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u213	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. Of course you're right. The economy has changed a lot. The government's public policy is not responsible. It's simply because here came a completely new export branch that greatly increased our export income and gave all of us the best balance of business. Minister's light. This does not change the fact that the same mistake was made in the economy on the part of the government or any person who has handled the government's affairs at one time. It's just the same cost increase into this growth that has swallowed the economy, further increases the economic system's imbalance, and in the end, we are taking out the corrections that have always been followed. Of course, that does not change the fact that there are many things very good and strong in the economy. But I reiterate what I said before in answer to the highest degree. Minister: Homes learned from collapse, professional life learned from collapse. The state has learned nothing from the collapse and has again made the same economic error.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u214	A respectable president. It is true if you want to see the value of the budget that in recent years expenses have increased. Yet, that is so that they have not grown in proportion to national production. At the same time we've seen expenses grow, we've turned 400 billion leftovers with irregular joints since 2014, 400 billion leftovers. We've paid off debt, barely 700 billion dollars of debt. The proportion of the State is far different from that of the State. We've paid over 100 billion into pension bonds. Then people come here and they're going to spread after this success saying, "They've been holding the cards pretty bad." One thing is to criticize the growth of government fees, but it must be shown that it is spontaneously or that it is too burdensome. But we have no evidence of that when we return good waste and see public expenses that the proportion of land production is not growing. [[The president calls.]] And despite the dramatic change in the economy, we are still putting up with a balance of state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u215	Mr. President. I'm not gonna pretend I'm going to teach the highest. His secretary for the state of finance, I know he knows them very well, but he's been in the Ministry of finance for some time. We'll raise a castaway to pay off the state debt in 1995-200,000. Again, we raise a rousing strategist to pay off the debt of the state in 2004-2008, and again we took steps to pay off the federal debt in 2013 and forward. Somehow, they always do debt again. Otherwise, they would probably be made up long ago. And there is a swing in the economy, that is the government's spending charge, which has been criticized so much, which eventually leads to considerable debt collections when the economy is closed. That's what I'm warning you. I think all too optimistic factors in view of the current cost level that we keep our state funds in balance with the economic crisis we're dealing with. Although he is temporary, and although there is no reason to despair in the long run, the blow will be more than this, as it has always been expected so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u216	Mr. President. I'm gonna try to call for what kind of luck. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson wants to be held in terms of government in the years to come. He's critical of expansion, and in part, I agree. Senator. My criticism is the same as I put in this symposium and actually in articles when I supported a government as a friend. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was a minister. Then I even criticized. His government was going to raise the total cost of 220 billion in a financial program that was then available, 220 billion. Then I'll ask if you're right. A senator says that we are on the edge of expenses, where will he be cutting down, because that must be the case? Or where will he earn his income, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u217	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator criticized the spending plans of that government and now supports the government, which increased the budget plans for which I think 50%, more than 300 billion increase in the duration of the first financial programme established by that government, so there was not a great deal of listening to the warnings there. Of course, the problem is the same. When expenses are made without financial support, there is a time for spending. That is what I have repeatedly criticized about the financial policy of this government. There's gotta be a choice between us. It should then have been more careful in raising the budget if it was not possible to raise taxes in order to finance this future spending point. There are, I think, the streets on which this government is currently on and will face in the next two years or so, whether they're going to have a handsome cut on government spending or simply to accept that they have to raise taxes to finance their spending plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u218	Mr. President. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator is leaving. Is he suggesting that we raise taxes? Yes or no? You see, I heard him suggesting that that that's the way we're going, i.e. to raise taxes. [[Up front.]] In 2017, I was assigned to discuss the budgetary bill of the then financial minister. There they suggested an increase in the value of extra taxes in tourism. Hv. Senator, do you remember?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u219	Yeah, I remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u220	Yeah, raise the value tax in travel service. I strongly warned that such a thing would be done because of the impact it might have, especially in the traveling work in the country. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] To me, Mr. President, it is absolutely certain that I was right, but what. A senator wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u221	The president asks members of the council to stop silent, but he points out that the speaker's record is open.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u222	Mr. President. I agree with the president that it would be nice to see the senators on the rosary, but they seem so proud of this policy that they choose not to comment on it. So I'll tell you what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason: No, I'm not offering raised taxes, on the contrary. I grieve very much, e.g. not to cancel the reduction of a special bank tax, because there is no one who pays that tax to the general public and company in this country. At the same time as the SERVANT is reducing growth to stimulate the economy, the government ceases to reduce the bank tax, which would have created essential oxygen into the job and to the home. I'm sorry. I'm simply pointing out the irresponsibility of the government to the government's government's administration to plan to do both at the same time, to increase the cost as much as it really is, and to pretend to get away with the need not to raise taxes. That's what the Independence Party will have to pay for the next election, how he's going to give up a trust fund in some beneficiaries, or at least leaningless into the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u223	President of the People's Bank from the Side Room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u224	Mr. President. Me and what. A senator may agree, but we are still not in the same category. I just want to get more answers and explanations or an opinion. A senator of where he believes he is the role of the State during this time of the economy, whether he is involved in Keynes' so - called economics that the State has a role to play in facing a down cycle by swinging action, including the following: increase public demand when demand is summarized by privates. On the one hand, it would be helpful to hear the senator's position on tax issues. Counts 'em out. The senator's priority now is to reduce the bank tax as it is today? I know it's a peculiar tax. I wondered, " Is this the right time to cancel the state's 8 billion annually or 18 billion in the next four years, as the current financial program suggests? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u225	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I myself believe in the Italian economy. I think it is desirable that there is room to add to the government's special investments at times like this. It is very important to stimulate the economy in times such as increased investments. It must be taken care of, of course, the problem of this government, that the increase in government funds is now in the basic affairs of the state, not investments. It would be preferable to put increased emphasis on investments and to maintain more basics. I believe, however, that a reduction in taxes, such as the bank tax, in the spirit of driving taxes, also has the same effect, since the bank customers are finally paying the tax with higher interest. It's been shown pretty well, including In a white book on the financial system, we have an unusually high budget on our financial system, and we also have an unusually high level of growth in our financial system. [[The president calls.]] That's at least Six percent of interest is explained only by special requirements and bans on the banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u226	Mr. President. In the second answer, I would like to ask about the so - called biographies agreements. Now we've got a what? A senator of a lot of experience participating in contracts in the labour market, and I pondered his opinion on the biographies agreements. It caught my attention when the so - called biography agreements were introduced that they seemed to have no effect on a financial program that had been introduced a month ahead of them. I ponder the contents of these agreements in that light. Similarly, the Haust Service evaluated it so that biographies would have no effect on prices. That would be informative in view of the experience of a man. A senator's assessment of the content of the contracts. I want to reiterate that this name, biographer contracts, is far too big in view of the fact that there are large groups left outside the agreements. It is enough to include the poorling, the elderly, and the students, and the public workers, in fact, are also in part left behind in view that only their pay raise is expected to be 0.5% higher than a raise that will be peculiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u227	A respectable president. That's an interesting question. Senator. First of all, it is obvious that the financial programme that we have discussed on a budget is completely unrealistic, especially when looking at the biography agreements. There are considerably more raises than financial programs are expected. As a matter of course, the state's funds will resort to lay-offs in order to resist the scope created for the increase in the budget. The economic or economic needs have increased with the contracts made after the planned schedule. It is also quite clear that this will have a significant impact on rural society, and the rural communities themselves have warned that the high rates of pay are far more than an increase in revenue for the composition of their workers. I think this is going to be a big cost for the locals, and I think we're supposed to be careful not to celebrate the deal too soon. It's, for example. fully aware that they will be very expensive for their tourism, which is now very difficult to deal with, to cope with both shrinking and loss of life, and to deal with highly expensive contracts. [[The president calls.]] I think it'll have an inflation effect on the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u228	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A fine speech from Víglundsson son of Wurmundsson can be a controversy when it comes to the development of government wealth. A senator came on, the interest we've been looking at over the years and beyond, and so on, the maintenance phase that has been criticized, including by financial advisers, or a small phase of maintenance reflected in low leftovers. Hv. At the same time, a senator came to realize that we are inclined to overemphasize the swing and underestimate the decline. Is it not, then, the wise, standing up to smiles and the challenge of not exaggerating, holding on to money - making investments, such as we really have room to do, and being obviously determined to do so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and a chairman of the Committee on Funds and also a thank - you for his hard work during the discussion, it is very respectful of the chairman of the financial committee of the discussion. The problem of this classic, of course, that the state's budget does not exaggerate with a contraction, is that the solution to it begins in the circle, i.e. that there is not so much tax growth that the State is forced to reduce once it is downed. In effect, it is too late to stop the well when the baby is dropped in and that has happened here. The cost has been greatly increased. As a result, the government will likely be forced to reduce expenses when we need stimulation. That's, I think, what we have to look at when we're taking to account the results of public finance laws and reevaluate them to some extent, how we can stick this up better in order to keep us from repeating the same mistakes, the economic rhythms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u230	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We're pretty much in agreement with this. I mean, we've been careful when we're looking at the space that has been created by the emphasis on paying off debt faster than the debt order says. Then we come to the future values, sustainability and stability. We must be careful not to exaggerate, that's what we agree, me and the other. A senator, holding on to money investments. We are in a position to do so because we have made room for it. Despite being involved, in proportion to the value generation, 1% left, he swallows this sudden down cycle to three fourths. We're on our way to deal with the down cycle, making sure we don't exaggerate the swing anymore and that financial policy is working with the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u231	A respectable president. I think this is our primary objective. A senator wholeheartedly agreed. I would have liked to see a position where we'd been better able to get up, not so much going, we could say, an exposé of the State's basic operation in recent years, just so that we could be even better equipped to stimulate an investment. It's true that the state's debt is good, it's been paid into the pension debt. It is proper to remember, though, that we have an unfunded pension commitment that goes up to 700 billion and, of course, is a trust in a government fund, which needs to be determined as well. But we need to learn from our mistakes. I don't think we've done it in this round, but hopefully we'll learn a lesson from it in order to revise the law. I think we've got to put a little more conservative value on the terms of government than we can find in the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u232	A respectable president. We're talking about financial policy for 20181⁄2022. Today we were voting on health policy, but now we're talking about unhealthy financial policy, sort of a weak financial policy, sort of an extremely ill financial policy. And how do I get it out? Yes, what is missing particularly in this policy is to do something about it, and usually economic violence practiced by older citizens and poorer people. What is not found in current financial policy or economic policies is doing for those who need it most. Once again, this is the case, so the poor and older citizens get at most a legal 3% consumer science target, and that has been the case in the past few years. Yet, the 69th grade is clear. Social security legislation that it should increase production according to pay development but only after the consumer prescription if it is more practical. It's broken over and over again. Then there is another context showing the context of what sort of financial policy this has been and how weak it is. That was calculated by 1% of the resources, about 30 billion dollars. Now it is found that there will probably be some 35 billion. But where did they reach the 30 billion? Yes, they were reached for disability, with a crown across the crown. The government's savings from a dollar to a dollar was taken away by older citizens. If we look at what they're going to replace the disability because of the deficiency, which was a bill submitted today, that is 10% of what they've achieved, 2.9 billion. By the end of this year, the Kingdom will have saved some $36 billion by the minimum of a dollar. If we take the 10 percent of the men that we're kissing to put in for microchip and deduction, we'll have about 33 billion left behind. And then next year, out of their kindness, they're going to add $1.1 billion, from 2.9 to 4. By the end of this year, they will have saved themselves 45 billion. What, then, will they do? Yeah, well, it's under 10% they're going to return, under 10%. It is also clear that there should not be a stop to a cent completely, it should continue into the infinite. There's something else about what's really weird. There's tax on e.g. Pension funds. We've got 73% up to 100% of the pension fund. If you have 60,000 k. or under 100% tax, just bang, all gone, zero. Anybody gets a hundred thousand bucks. Out of the pension fund, we're at 90%. Of course, this is absolute financial violence. Let's put it this way: At the 2015/2016 season 300 Icelanders had about 60 billion on capital taxes. The person paid about 20% of the taxes, or 14 billion. So if we just turn back - these are people who had 5 million to 15 million a month's pay - we're talking about people who're supposed to live at $22,000. ... or below. It is taxed from 73% to 100% while those with maybe 51⁄215 million pay 22% taxes. How in the world can we have it like this? If something was, we should turn it all around. Of course, this is not done because large banks have been found. The taxpayers have already been found, and there are older civilians. It's a little strange if we watch the bill that was set up today for a dollar in return that makes us 65 bucks across the crown. We don't use the money anymore. If we have 50 bucks or more, it's even, and if we have less than 50, it's equal. Of course, a minimum amount of money is needed. It is all right to attribute them with an worthless currency. It also shows that they should not have any elevations. They're not supposed to get the biographies. The biographies aren't for seniors and disability, they're out of the question. They are not even calculated according to a consumer calculus, it is not even being paid from April 1. Although it will be calculated according to a next year's consumption date, it will not be repetitious. What also illustrates in the financial program is that there is no correction, correction, blunder correction for older citizens, and disability. She's not in there anywhere. Once again, up until 2022, they are the only ones who have not been corrected, not to be raised, as did others under the advice of a dresser. They were completely left behind, and once again, until 2022, they are to be left behind. It's very hard to believe that it is inside the system that the largest group in the pensions from the U.S. National Insurance Institute is going to live at $22,000. or less. In the context of the plan, there is nothing that older citizens could receive more than two years ago, $25,000. Free income fees on a pension fund. This year's budget does not contain any financial laws or laws for the future. They are once again to be defrauded of. I'm kind of used to words. Let's just take this strange violence that has a bearing on, for example. tax losses that were being exasperated, tax down ahead. If we went back to 1988, there was no tax from the government pensions. After that, people lived in a pension fund after 20 to 30%. This tells us that there have been tremendous tax increases in those who should least, older, and desperate people. It's taxing people. This is an amazing butt-stupid monster that the social security system's built up in that time. Every government in its time has added to the butts, taken more. They had come so far that they had taken more back than they gave e.g. In the car strength, in the strength of medicine, in all kinds of strength. Happily, though, they knew how to accept it at the last assembly. But still, there are lots of traps still in there, death insurance, all kinds of benefits being cut 100%. What on earth do we do in such a way? I'm kind of used to words. Why can it be said that there is a minimum requirement for older citizens and disability once to receive justice, so that they can say with some dignity that they have the possibility of leading a decent life? It can't be complicated. It must be minimal enough for everyone to have the right to live a decent life, to have a knife, a spoon, and a good rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u233	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech and an urgent need to do quite better in the affairs of disability, and I'd like to commend myself. A late senator shows that we can do much better when it comes to the ideal disability. It's a complete scandal in my opinion, Mr. President, that the tenth richest country in the world of Iceland should not be able to do better with that group. In Iceland, there are about 21,000 people, and in many cases this is one of the poorest groups in the country. We'll see that about half of the movers earn less than 220,000 dollars. for tax. Half are under there, and 70% of the population is earning under 300,000 dollars. for tax. It's an incredibly bad manifestation in a rich community. Here we see that the government is setting up 4 billion, which is just one third of the cost of removing a so-called dollar from a dollar. I don't understand why we can't prioritize the government's resources in such a way that the injustice of a dollar against a dollar is simply taken away. If we put 10 billion more, we would reach that step. 10 billion are high, but this is only 1% of the government's spending, and it's not the time for the government to put it in. These are 0.3% of land production that is missing on top of a dollar. I'd like to hear that answer from you. A senator will determine if it is not long time for him to take this step. The money's really there, and it's been for years, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u234	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Álán Olá Ólafur Ágústsson's query. Yes, because your thinking is so wrong, a dollar in favor of the decrease is insane. We have disability that have specific supplements and age-related supplements, and these are compensations that are impaired against a dollar. The stupidest thing we do is that we need in the system we have to pay these people a month after, but what do we say? The special supplementes and dating are so high that people need a huge amount of money if they go to the job market to make a living. It costs to get to and from work. Then people don't go. And what does that mean? That means the state will not receive tax returns. That's what it says. The government must pay it anyway, and it must be more economical for the government that people can win, even if it's small, and pay taxes. Then shall the tax come back on every side, both the tax and the answer. Especially because these people are usually paying an answer. We can also point out that those on budget pay no comment. They don't like it, they get all the community service, but they don't pay anything for an outback. But most of the older citizens' taxes and disability are taking an outback. It claims that these incomes matter, and they have to be paid that month from month to month, and it must be more practical to let them work and get their taxes back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u235	Mr. President. In my first answer, I mentioned disability. Now I'd like to mention an older citizen, just like that. A senator also mentioned. We see that the increase in financial programs that will be discussed this week is the financial contributions set out primarily for that group, so there is no systematic increase in that group. This is shown in the budget, for example. up to 70% of the senior citizens who live under the worst terms are women and especially need to consider this group. I'm very worried about that, and it'd be interesting to hear a thought. A senator's view of this is that we do not carry out the interests of older citizens in a way that we should do, what this will be like in the future. During the next 40 years, the number of older citizens in this country will double. It is sobering to know how future politics will conquer that position. You have reason to be somewhat pessimistic when it comes to doing so, in view of the lack of the current situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u236	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Older citizens, where most of them are women, and they have lost their pension. At least, however, older people have been given a little famine, $25,000. A pension-free market. But then there's a 73% decrease on the remainder. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible in this context of half a pension, when the government offered that dance, it was for those with pension payments of over 500,000 bucks. signed. But those underneath will not be included. It's amazing that it's being given people from a hundred and twenty-five thousand. in a month, people who don't need it. And where does it come from? From the pockets of those who really need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u237	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson said that it would be. A senator would have been tireless about pointing out the more important points in terms of disability, and I know how to thank him for that. I'd like to introduce to it that, in this policy, we'd like to consult, according to the law, with our rural communities. What concerns us is that the government had very limited consultations when it made the decision to freeze, as it is said, to make contributions to the balance fund. V.E.G. In fact, the secretary of finance has said that the decision has not yet been made on that basis, but it is quite certain that the rural communities protested very much and are deeply concerned about it. I want to come in with it for what? A senator whether he believes that this policy could lead to, for example, the following: Legal activities of the rural community, such as the NPA, can take on those that should least be taken into account, i.e. disabled and even disabled persons who attend that service, such as the rest of the day. A senator mentioned, micropunchers. Is that a course of action that can affect the person to the least?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u238	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It tells itself that those who need help most are exactly the group, those who are the most disabled, and those who rely on NAPA and others. Hence, it is really sad that it has been created by means of a system in which people are being trapped in a poverty trap. They're creating a system like that. This is so ugly. There's been a raise, e.g. the special supplements, increases the age-related supplements, and then is to be set up to reduce the degree of impairment. But that is not enough. This is not suitable because the cost of working for them and trying to save them is great. It just takes a penny against a dollar off. I don't understand this stubbornness. This could be done against the older citizens of this country. It seems to have worked very well, and no one complains about it. Why, then, is this not a simple matter, and can it be done now with respect to microorganisms? Why are you scrambling at a third, kicking only less financially? Still, you're kicking him financially, so you totally quit, which is, of course, the right thing. But sadly, this budget, and the plans for the government, are based on continuing to exploit the least, people who have only $22,000. In a month, stand and care for rents and other items. It tells itself that the living room is well over 50 and up to 100% of this pay. It's violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u239	Mr. President. Thank you. In answer to this question, a senator wholeheartedly agree with him on the matter of $22,000. naturally, the amount of money for supporting oneself in a society that is known for its well - being. We stand as a nation, and it's natural that it's very sad. You are also afraid that this scheme and this lack of communication, which is clearly reflected in the communication between state and rural society, expressed in the reduction of donations to the balance fund and now that there has been a lack of progress in the change of policy, impact on those groups, such as The NAPA agreements we all rejoiced in this hall that were finally through. There is the possibility that those who should not be financed will not be paid up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u240	President. Thank you. A senator for the question. There's another thing about this, and it's that if your rural society gets the answer to those who have capital taxes, they get the expression on top of which everyone else has to pay unless in some strange way these parties are abdicating, then there's a lot of money coming in to back up with the NAP. And as one says, there is one thing to say about this system, another to live in, to be in it. First, you are sick or injured, and then you are in a financial state because your system has a built - in impairment that makes it impossible for no individual to calculate it from day to day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u241	A respectable president. I listened immediately. Commenting on the content of financial policy, a senator tried to connect it only with government laws and why we should discuss these details in financial policy. But that's exactly why financial policy is dealing with long-term commitments. They have to do with biodiversity and demographic development until the next year. That's a plan we need, a plan to keep for the next 30 years, to be available and updated every three years, how demographic numbers develop over the next decade. They are to be used as a basis for economic policy and financial planning. It shows how much elderly people are expected to increase, and as we know, the murky pyramid will change slightly over the next few years, affecting government finances, which must, of course, be explained in financial policy. But financial policy is missing right now. There's no discussion of long-term commitments. That is why it is so important to talk about this matter, for it is the basis for many of the long - term commitments we make in public finance. What are our pension bonds for the coming years and decades of financial policy, and what will keep our commitments to both pension and disability?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u242	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, that's exactly why she's so seriously ill, or she's not. That's exactly what's missing. Still, it is clearly built into the system that always reduces what is needed most. It tells itself that while older citizens and disability do not follow pay development, do not get rear - adjusted corrections, do not allow for reinstitution, they will always get out of the way again. It will always be harder and harder for these individuals to care for their housing, food, clothing, and everything. And it sucks that we're still doing the same thing, that we're not going to be any further in our rich community to build it in, for example. the budget of how we will make sure that everyone can live a decent life. What is needed in order for people to live a decent life? What is the minimum amount of progress so that people can live with dignity? There's nothing like that in the budget. It's just, where can we cut down and where can we start? And, yes, they've always found wide banks, they're older civilians, we'll start there, start scrambling at them. But why not start at the top, take the richest ones, and start getting the money? It has enough work to take, like a bank tax, the fishing fees, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u243	A respectable president. I took it together after some meeting at a budget board and asked the Generals' area of information to get together for the increases that follow the 69th paragraph. the Law on social security, what the increase should have been in terms of pay development, and on indexal development and what it really was. After you put it together, see when the elevations were lower and what they should have been, then, according to the collection in the last 20 years, they should be 50% higher than they are now, just by following the law. But it's a fitting interpretation, based on predictions. Predictions are usually made on the lower side of things that have progressed since then. This should be reflected in long-term predictions and long-term commitments. It shows how these developments will develop for the next year and what the cost will be, and then you can compare them with what really happens. It's missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u244	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. This is the exact position that should be inside. If it were just given and calculated - you had calculated it since 1980 when pensions were no tax and you had 30% into a pension fund - if this were calculated to today, you would have been paying about 310,000,300,000 dollars. by tax. That's the right thing to say. That's what she's supposed to be today. Of course, there is nothing in the financial program. Given present and former governments, things like that are nothing on the board. People must begin to realize that the current government does not intend and will not improve the interests of older citizens and disability. Older people and poorer people will carry a sharp object from the table. Their interests will not improve as long as the present government is in power, and so forth, until 2022, if this proposal is allowed to exist. I hope it won't be that long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u245	Mr. President. For many years much has been discussed about the need for long-term policy in the state of government, a procedure that requires discipline on the part of the government, and the presumption of some sort of enterprise and all the public in the country. This is especially important in a small economy, which, outside of it, has one of the smallest currency mediums in the world that is much more fluctuating than is known to be seen in larger currency systems. For this purpose a law on public finance was set in 2015, based on that at the beginning of each terms, the government sets up a financial policy and then each year a five - year financial program, which will fit within it and, finally, a budget for each year, which, of course, is based on both. His economic policies presented the current government 14 months ago, with no regard for warning words, either from government positions, stakeholders, or a number of other professionals, including financial advisers. The government's financial policy expected a continuous 14 - year - old interest, something that has never been going on in Iceland, and the civilian gang walked for several years. It should be noted that at the time, there was even considerable progress, so in itself no experts were needed to tell us that the criteria were at least Very slim, to say no more. However, the main criticism of the Union and the rest of the government's financial policy focused on a so - called spending policy that includes the rest of the total government balance being a given proportion of GDPs per year. In fact, financial advisers said that. In his review that by order, the government could easily get into a straitjacket of its own direction, something so much better to come by the day. You see, the government is now trapped in the same straitjacket and is tempted to resort to weapons of eggs and cut himself loose, i.e. change your own course. In other words, it is to be fixed so that you can get some leftovers that are in a government fund and that you can fix things around a corner. Now, at the wheel of the national sink, there is a left category, which historically would have looked forward to the gathering of income among groups that are very much capable of contributing, while the right category, which has spoken of the right to expand, which cut down and thus live within the policy. We know well where the cut-off knife would land; on the welfare system, in the public, on the worst place the groups that were also not able to enjoy the good we had during the past few years. So the government chooses to change its own 14 - month course and was to do enough for four years. This is a ▪quick fix◯, Mr. President, who hopefully helps most of the current issues but is unlikely to do much longer because governments still have considerable optimism about economic issues in the years to come and the classes are too unconcerned if anything goes on. It is said that the crown's gang should remain intact for the next five years, which will seem unlikely. Similar inflation is calculated as had been predicted. It may not work. At that time, little changes in unemployment are expected, even though there is a light rise in tourism, and it is only right to remind that each percentage of unemployment costs about 6.5 billion dollars. It is then assumed that economic growth will soon take place, and hopefully it will be, but, of course, it is only a bird in the forest. If you observe the analysis of Arion Bank and its Delusion Bank, the travel service will meet by 15◯16%. It's just that it's likely to overthrow all the government's plans, and then it needs to answer when there's no more leftovers: where to bring it down? In fact, the government is particularly good at deceiving itself and the common people, and it seems to be the object of looking far beyond the toes. This has been proved by the contributions of last financial policy, which is now a shock and financial strategy but also by the fall of WOW, by the Court's decision and, of course, in agreements, that even there the government was set up against the walls and people in the labour market had to drag her into a country after she had made one failed attempt to meet the legitimate demands of the people. In the present situation, the most important thing is that we join together to protect the welfare and guarantee that the weakest groups will not pass away in the later recession period. But the situation is far more sensitive to these groups than it is because governments over the past few years have neither sought to support health and welfare services nor to give them the rise of the most ill. Furthermore, the government has not shown sufficient vision to invest in the educational and circumstances of students who live under poor conditions. And then you ask yourself, Mr. President, isn't it okay to change the financial policy when there are some rocks on your street or those 35 billion were not thinking to face the conditions that exist today, as it were? paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson said they had a show this weekend? Is it not merely a formalism to criticize that a course to be adopted, such as the highest? Secretary of finance recently said at the council? The answer to all those questions, Mr. President, is: It is not trivial to change a course that should apply for the entire ideal period that you yourself set up, which should be maintained at the least of the conventions and relatively predictable circumstances. The government law says, Mr. President, by permission: If the core premises of financial policy are missing or predictable, it is due to economic failure, national year or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with with any available resources, the Minister shall propose to the General Council a resolution to the synopsis of the change of course as soon as possible. But changing the course of an unexpected event does not meet the failure of a fish or that a company went over it does not meet. It undermines trust, Mr. President. We are not dealing with any natural problem or disaster. Rather, we are simply dealing with situations that can be expected in a small country that is much alive, and perhaps too much, on resources, and have to deal with the unpredictable quirk of nature. As for the fall of a huge systematicly important company, such as WOW, you should point out that the news did not come completely surprised because the government itself has charted what would happen less than one year ago if it happened. Mr. President. The union wouldn't have set up the same kind of financial policy in the government at the beginning of the season that this government wants to change. On the contrary, we want our policy to give governments the opportunity to work with a fluctuating economy. Nor would the union have given tens of millions of dollars in a flash but would have gathered for safety and more social stability so as to escape when the valley was hard to deal with. Of course, the union will do what it can to make an effort to protect the welfare of the country, and since the government does not want to collect a higher resource resources, they will seek a wealth and capital tax to violent individuals who may be better off walking on the rest. The independent party of three last governments is drawing up a picture of a group that cannot be trusted for the economy, a group that did not provide enough to save into the cage when it was very well, but now is in the water and is going to eat the last supply, with no clear vision for the future. So I refer to my father's house that it is formality to criticize that there is now a planned change in financial policy when just one third of the term is complete. Mr. President. This is what happens when two very different political parties with different basic policies plan to shape policies. It simply will not become a bird or a fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u246	A respectable president. Of course, what you miss from this criticism of the government's previous financial policy or previous financial policy and plan are some strong suggestions, not raising taxes and spending. All I've heard is that these two things really should have been done. There would have been nothing improved in itself. There would have been no excess in the maintenance phase of doing these two things the way the Conspiracy suggested. Those who wish to criticize the government for not showing enough support in recent years are, in effect, calling for more change here, more than the 400 billion that we gave up and using to pay off debt, so the debt of the state has gone down far beyond the debt criteria that seemed rather steep in its time. This has provided the basis for our improved credit ratings and for today the best government funds ever received. What evidence is there that we have been pursuing a wrong policy in public finances? It's not in the inflation or in the interest level, it's not in debt. It's not in the business equation. It's not in the professional phase as it has been. Where are the signs that we have been on the wrong path? All the signals, as the Scroll itself points out, are that we have been making the best way for a downturn. So now we have no interest in growth this year, and we are well equipped to handle matters with the Federal Bank, which is reducing interest. I point to the fact that I refer to Gylfi Zoëgi's current clue: It's actually all over the place - public finances, employment markets, and money policy - in perfect dance to deal with these situations. That's what we're getting, right now, slows down in the economy. Of course, we can see that we have been making good use of the time to prepare for this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u247	Mr. President. Where do we see evidence of a wrong course? The signal is that we're standing here and we're changing our course to the highest. The secretary of finance went through 14 months ago, a policy that was due to last 48 months, but he could not keep it. It's the first signs. Then let us take up a financial program and the discussion about it when that plan finally appeared and discussed it. Now we're talking about financialism. Evidence that policy is wrong is that the government itself cannot keep it. V.E.G. Minister: There are two ways to be maintained. It is possible to cut down, which, of course, is the first weapon a minister usually resorts to a speaker's chair when something gets harder on the valley. But there is also a way to earn money. Although this is not a situation to impose a spell on e.g. A travel service would no doubt have made more balance, sustainable, and better growth in this article, making it not an influence on other sectoral activities, perhaps making some more reasonable long - term plans, if the top. A minister would have thought of supporting such a plan. That is not the case now. The union is well aware that in ordinary people, in ordinary businesses, they do not become more tax paying now. This does not mean, however, that taking of the fruit of righteousness is not a matter of universal interest. It's also holding, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u248	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has to make a difference that has a course that is too optimistic and that we simply have a wrong course based on a premise. The policy we made at the time was based on the Haguen predictions that there would be a continuation of economic growth. On the basis of the official figures, we had the right course, and then she walked after, for example. ... last year, pretty much an extra letter. We'll get later this month from the Department of State by 2018, and I expect all the large sizes are exactly the same as laid down. But then when the premiums fall, w. Senator, you have to take it into consideration. The government will not be blamed for the economic catastrophe, so economic forecasts will be revised, and it will be as much as we are seeing. We're about to improve the standard of living in this country. We'll be measured. We will not be measured by how good we are predicting economic developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u249	Mr. President. It should be the highest. Ministers to go to one place to improve the standard of living for the worst. Here, he again testifies in a practical way. We had to follow a good report. There were many times when they warned that it was inconceivable. I'm not sure I would even park in getting into a car with the highest. Minister because if a road - to - road sign shows an speed of 90 miles [90 km], that doesn't mean that it's in the sledgehammer, in the bad shades of light, and with high - scale predictions, you drive at 90. You slow down and you hit 60, 70. That would have been better done when a minister trod through his economic policies. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u250	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Einarsson For the United Nations president, the Logosson of the United States, the president of the United States, was presented with an excellent talk, a extensive discourse that included a fundamental prince's point of view. His party stands for, in part, what others may class, as expressed by the expressed expression of restoration. Nor do we have disagreements about economic issues and nothing to say. I think it's possible to say that we have a similar point when it comes to defending the worst, and I'll pass that question on below. I'd like to underscore that I'm not going to question that right in my own self or to criticize very strongly when it comes back with a renewed financial policy. But when financial policy was adopted, and that was last year, it was exactly a warning against everything that we are facing today. There are many things that have been said to be true in the case of the highest court. Secretary of finance and stuff here, a lot of fine points. We didn't have a big ballast. We didn't have a big dinner. We did not go to 100 billion like the Independence Party and the Left Green. I even think that the advance party was one of the meekest in exorbrations, and they were a little ashamed of it. We have warned against adding up expenses so that when it comes to the downturn, it will not be possible to meet with reasonable investments. That's what I'm talking about. As a member of the Parliament, do we agree on that now is rather the time to take reasonable investments when we are facing downturns? Would it be possible to unite in some way? I don't necessarily hope that the government would like some cooperation with us in our government, but it can. A senator thought that we would face this downturn - which everyone could have anticipated, especially the members of the government - by going into it in the days ahead? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u251	Mr. President. Me, unlike what. A senator, thinks that it is right and all right to criticize that this financial policy is being changed in the middle of the term, simply because it was to be said by the government. The policy is not just for her but especially for company, the public in the country, so we can live with some kind of regret. This can be the case, and the way it meets is that now, 14 months later, is the highest. Ministers to accept the criticism we have and others, including Budget advice, come on out. The reason we have called for more expenses is simply because infrastructure has been decaying, and living in a house that is about to collapse. However, income can be acquired, and the Conspiracy would have had quite a chance to earn more and more money. The union has never been in connection with financial plans or financial laws until it is directly referred to how to handle them. However, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator in that the government must spit in and go into a structure. I'm in the middle of an acceleratorism, which assumes that the economy is consistent. I like that the head of the Independence Party and the highest. The secretary of finance is now lying around with us, and perhaps the interview I was reading with him on national matters earlier would have been slightly different if he had gone to it today, but when it was taken several months ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u252	Mr. President. For the record, I'm saying that I don't have any basis for a review of financial policy. But it must be done on reasonable and right grounds. I agree with what. A senator, the basis for a review today, was all clear 14 months ago. The bitter truth is that we are in trouble with financial policy because the government had to meet the galennial payouts of all the government groups and particularly had to go to this mass-exploitation gains during the period of time, rather than try to do so wisely, including. to keep left green in peace within the government. It was difficult enough for the left green to sell it for a government partnership with the Independence Party. Exploitation was needed as soon as there have been serious consequences, as long as there was a total increase in expenses. Therefore, we face a review of financial policy, not really because of anything else. This is the political reality. So I say this review of financial policy, let's just come clean, isn't because of this alone, but because the government went wrong with the high-reflux. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u253	Mr. President. I don't agree with what. A senator said it was his mistake. It was a mistake not to earn money for them at the same time, since it also means maintenance. As I told you earlier, there could also have been more leftovers and more cuts now. I believe, however, that if the government has no other means of working according to its own financial policy, it is necessary that it be allowed to change that. Perhaps the changes are in the way we would have wanted to see it in the first place. We have the group that wants to call themselves the greatest right party at the council, and we have the party that wants to call themselves the greatest left party in Congress. These groups want to head in two very different directions. They are now unable to work within their own direction and are victims of such opposition. But the main point is that we now take steps to protect our well - being from distractions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. Logi A Einarsson's talk. I have to admit that I missed my start so that something might have happened there that could explain some of the things I want to come on. It doesn't have to be surprising, however, that the focus of the Central Party and the Community on the tax issues is different, but in the context of a discussion of revenue, we're obviously looking forward to a tighter position the next year than we've had in the past few years, so I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator to see if he sees the basis somewhere in the system to reduce taxes now. Then I'm not talking about user fees or something, which, of course, is a lifelong project to look into, but only larger income companies. See what? A senator somewhere where there's room to push an injection or to move oxygen into the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u255	Mr. President. I'm afraid we're in a position where we don't have enough oxygen to move into the system. I think we just need to make sure that the people who have the worst in society and who didn't enjoy the rise just have oxygen over their heads if they start to harden up in the valley. The union isn't a high-tax party. We have repeatedly demonstrated how we reduce taxes. On the other hand, we lower taxes on the public and on those with a low income, but we go to taxes to those who have more between our hands because we accept and view the tax system not only as a income source but also as a income balance tool. I could read up here for quite a long time what the tax reduction party has done in recent years; increased services, radio bills, tobacco bills, fuel bills, carbon bills, mile tax, car tax, etc. What the Company wants to do is lower the taxes on the lowest wage and the worst, but collect income from those who have, so I just use a rather everyday case, a lot of money. We can do this in various ways. We can refer to the personal discount, a three - step tax system that is not like what is now being offered but to offer up a higher level. We can add to growth improvements and child support. But first, what? A senator will ask about the tax reductions at least aims at those who are not good enough for the community today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u256	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for the Einarsson of Logi. The other thing I wanted to come into my answers - I hope so. A senator forgives me for bringing a question from an answer to an answer, but I thought the point was so interesting that I wanted to call for a deeper explanation. It turned to that, if I understood why. A member of the council correctly, although there is no room to add taxation to the tourism service now after a tighter pace has been done better in the early stages. See what? A senator imagines stepping into different sectors at different times with special stress on income taxes as compared to taking the flat percentages of everyone and equal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u257	Mr. President. I'm grateful for that. A senator for this question because he knows as well as I do that in financial and financial schemes, tax returns to tourism are expressed at a rate of tens of billions. It's not necessarily healthy that the system always grows very fast and carpets very fast together. It is possible that after the collapse, when this growth begins in the tourism service, it would have been more intelligent that it was only in normal tax environment and growing slower, in a more sustainable way, and it would be more based on quality, persistence, and such things than fast - growing rage, which can have a negative impact on other sectors. That wasn't done. Now is not the time to do it. Now all of us know that travel services will not be imposed at all. We will never do this under our present circumstances, but at that time it should certainly have been examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u258	Mr. President. The review of a second smaller section of the budget board at 2018 financial policy states, with the permission of a president: A popular word for financialism is used 19 times. Explain, however, how financial policy guarantees stability, and why it does not exist. The situation today is said to be obvious. The premonition was emphasized by the smaller percentages of the budget committee in numerous speeches and in countless community reviews last year. Despite endless warning messages, members of the government were not to consider the matter further. In the suggestion, a steady state is used 13 times. Since the start of the current control, inflation has increased by 1.1 percentage points, there has been a 44% increase in the rate of inflation over a period of not less than 14 months. Of course, there is no envy in having to take advantage of this system of economy with its scars, where it is customary to do extraordinary things in ways that are hardly known elsewhere. But I'd like to mean that it's a bad idea for those who are going to take over the economy of the country to start by creating a policy in which there is no realism. The requirement for setting up new financial policy is if the core institutions of financial policy fail or predicted that they will fail because of economic failures, national years or other circumstances that are impossible to handle with available resources. It cannot be said at the same time that economic management in Iceland is good and that fundamental financial policies are smiling. Good economic management must include not tailoring to the point where only one shock is needed to reevaluate the situation. It was a big blow, but it wasn't that big in terms of government and beyond that, it was not too unpredictable. I can't believe the government didn't respond sooner to the predictable bankruptcy of WOW air. The disconcerting problem, though, was somehow predictable to some extent, has been a recession year after year, and can be attributed to the warming of the sea. The weakness of the country's financial regime shows that there is no greater limit than that one company can overcome all the factors of the complex stability. There is much to say on this particular suggestion. This is the first time since the government law was set up, which is a financial policy in which a negative outcome is expected. That's a big deal. Although there is a slight uncertainty, we need to consider this in the context of the state's debt. The typical debt of state funds today is about 600 billion, which is about 21% of gross domestic product. The total debt is 800 billion, but there are loans and more. But it's not just a good situation, it's a lower debt rate than most Western countries live in. We are in a place similar to Sweden today, where the debt ratio is with the lowest known in the West. In Iceland, it is decided that government debts are in their nature bad, and you even hear economists claim that government is like domestic accounting, although it is the fundamental difference that most homes do not produce their own currency. Governments are not like homes. Government debt is not like a household debt, in fact, government debt is actually the product of private savings. So it is fine that the state has debts, not just debts, but to be able to finance tasks that would otherwise be difficult to finance. And, of course, the prerequisite is that their debt is low. But the interest you pay today is quite high. They have gone down, which is fine. The highest interest rate today is about 8%, and interest rates are generally between 6 and 7% when the inflation is calculated into the inflatable loans. That's a huge deal of growth. It's very uncomfortable to have such a huge weight of interest. I've been talking about it ever since I came to Congress that the emphasis should be on getting the interest down rather than just trying to reduce the debt rate. It may have been in some way, but emphasis on growth might have changed the approach taken. It might be considered, for example. which is customary in the United Kingdom, offering a guarantee loan of the price-proof loss, i.e. on the taps, which have very low capacity, perhaps 1%, which would then be a possibility for people who had nothing to do with the money or who would not have anything else to do with it. Then there would always be some flow. I'll just mention it because I find it very remarkable and as a sign of a more realistic approach to the government, that in this strategy it is assumed to be a sludge, provided that all the uncertainty is new. Based on the fact that we are downtroducing, as indicated by some evidence, the question of whether the State is not to, in view of its high debt and ability as the State, to use the opportunity to increase investments and thus to maintain this stability mentioned 13 times in the proposal. I don't quite see on this policy how much swing you can expect. The proposal, with the permission of the president, concludes: ▪ A time-consuming assessment of the need for relaxation in financial policy management depends on substantial uncertainty. And, of course, you're right. It's hard to see this coming. It will be very interesting to know whether this new course will follow some effort to evaluate how realistic it is behind what we have been forced to work with. I have called repeatedly for the accuracy of national ideals, for example, because they are presented and not said today about, such as How good national interests have been for the past few years. I can say with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that the State should not have excessive investments during the upcoming hours, as the increase in in in in inflation indicates a lack of resources in the economy and high production potentials that have seen that for some years have gone down. But in return, and I have supported it, that the state's investment level is still slightly higher than reasonable because the impact of the collapse is still visible in many parts of the community, e.g. in a poor road system or intensified maintenance need and such. The need simply moves on. It makes it necessary for us to do not to do as much as it would be for others to do now. But it is likely to pay itself to give a little in and to engage in fluctuation in a natural way, using this downturn as an opportunity to create good strip. It would be very bad to see a shrink from the state at this point, and we don't really see exactly how and if it will happen sooner than in the fall with the budget bill, except at the highest level. A minister can tell us something about his plans there. There's a lot of unsuspecting factors. And as I told you earlier, trying to control the economy as it is, as unstable as it is, is not an envious situation, and has been historical. Unfortunately, at this point, I do not have a basis to further evaluate the impact of policy. This will be evident by the treatment and discussion of the committee. But I sincerely hope that there will not be any dog abuse to go to the Committee for some home-made senator press. It is very important that this work is done well because it shows that economicism was not done well lastly, and we just need to breathe a little into the abdomen and take it easy. While people may have to sacrifice several beautiful summer days to ensure that this financial policy will not be the same fate after 14 months as the last one and will be as much of a cloud town as it was, it will just have to have it. We'll have to take it easy and do it well, and I'm sure that the best members of the budget are doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u259	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a nice talk. He wondered what the right thing to do in the present situation and was justified in this regard. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's only on tax issues, so I was only aware of his policy on tax issues. I'm not tired of bringing up the subject that we can't talk about a vision for the future in terms of money or how to react to subtraction without discussing any kind of tax policy we want. Should we increase taxes or reduce taxes? Should we not touch the taxes or increase taxes on certain groups or companies or what? I'd like this counter to call out, if possible, of course. A senator for a possible tax change. First, think again. A senator supports the increase in fishing fees? I have strongly criticized it here that the administrative body has decided to lower the fishing budget to the point where it is completely unacceptable to me. The price of hunting has become the same as the price of tobacco. Number two is, what's the position? A senator for a wealth tax and possibly a different export than we had last received, even having it linked? I have also repeatedly pointed out that there is a measure of property at present. Eleven percent of the population owns vast assets, 0.1% of the population on enormous property. This could be a used income supply to meet the future downturn, and we're in it. Third, it's the capital tax: got it. A senator and his party took a stand on the question of whether to simply raise capital taxes? We have the lowest financing tax in all the states of the North. It would be interesting to have the senator's position, whether to raise him slightly to face the down cycle that lies ahead in our efforts to protect those who have the least of them and the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u260	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is talk about taxes in general. In fact, there are two interpretations of the role of taxes. The second interpretation is that taxes are collected from the state to pay for government expenses. The other interpretation is that the state makes money, put them in circulation, then collect taxes so that money can be taken out of the way to avoid inflation. I like the second edition, it's like a MMT approach and it's traceable to a post-keysist. From this you say: The main objective of taxes is to secure the economy, and then some political objectives can be added, for example. To increase the equation and so on. Pirata's course is, for example. to raise a capital tax to 30% and I've been very open to even his step distinction or to create some kind of character discount beyond what is currently. However, the key is not necessarily whether taxes should be raised or lowered but how we create a link that ensures stability in the economy and does not harm people. For the past 30 years or so, it has been said repeatedly, usually on the part of the Independence Party, that tax reductions occur. But as a result of minor tax reductions, these revenues are being thought over on expenses so that people will pay higher fees for all things. In fact, those who are earners often pay much more than 30 years ago, despite some percentage lower taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u261	Mr. President. Thank you for the answer. As a co-pubber, I view the role of the tax system as twofold, as the chairman of the Conspiracy could only do in his speech, this is not just a means of earning income but also an equation device. I see why. A senator's view of the matter is similar. In the second answer, I'd like to ask, because of that. A senator could do only for stability. I agree with that, there has to be stability here, and one of the major problems in the Icelandic economy is a lack of stability. We've got too fluctuated economy and it's hard to do here long-term plans. I've often imagined that it's hard enough to do business in Iceland, even though you don't need to be an expert on the development of currency. I'd like to have a question. A senator, if he wishes to answer, will be the currency. We see no OECD state has experienced so much fluctuations in the real cost of currency as Iceland has in the past 15 years. I'd like to have the senator's speculation: Isn't this blessed currency completely seen? We see it falling, sometimes too tall, sometimes too low. Do we not need to take more reasonable steps to pick up a real currency that is not like a korke in the turbulent economy? I find it quite obvious, and it is not stupid or random that 19 European countries have adopted euro as their currency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he shares in the vision that Iceland should take a practical step in walking in the European Union and then simply filming euro with a view to creating a long - awaited stability that we will never enjoy with the Icelandic crown and that we have not made these less than 100 years of our living with the Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u262	Mr. President. I appreciate your excellent inquiry, but it's a little bit of the point. I came into my speech that there is no envy because I have to try to be economice in which there is such a disability that is completely unreliable. I had at one time brought up the total fluctuation of percent compared to other currency, and it was amazing to see it. I don't remember what the number was, but it was amazingly high, and it didn't matter which currency a man was comparing to. But now I have on my wall in my office the World Bank classification system for currency systems. I find it so interesting that Iceland is on a road that almost no other country goes. Most countries of this magnitude and most countries over the head are either part of a currency union or have their currency tied to one of these big, two to three currency. That's a way I think it's very helpful for us to record, e.g. Homing. There's a problem with all the plots, but tying it like this would be a step at least to take up a euro even later, which I would personally support, I think it's a good idea. Although my party thinks we need to have a conversation about our future in the European Union, I personally believe that we belong there. But we have to make a way there and no matter whether we're in there or not, we must begin by making some stability for our currency so that the rest will all come true. Connecting us to e.g. A European approach would be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u263	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. Actually, I missed the beginning, but I hope it's not my fault. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the development of economy, and about the financial policy set up until the age of five, it's not unusual, at least As time passes, evolution has occurred to be different from when it began. Besides, we're a swinging economy because of our currency, and we've entered it here, but in fact, we're offering some of the major employment practices as well. There are known facts. That's why I'd like to hear from it. A senator's assessment of how he feels is effective in making sure that he does not repeat that he has set a heading for five years already in the first year or in the first year and a half of the year that it needs to be recorded. It matters. This is not a personal government or a special case that dishonors the situation. This is important to a number of people. There are companies, there are institutions, there are individuals, there are creditors, demands, etc. who make their plans based on the programmes set out here. I'd be interested to hear, because it's now being spoken of in this new conclusion that we need to learn from this lesson and that there is the possibility of a change in approach in this, with regard to a political solidarity on increasing flexibility and the like, whatever. A senator sees that there could be a lesson we can learn from this, i.e. ... aboutthework at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u264	Madam President. There are a number of factors to consider. One thing is simply not tailoring to the narrow sting that he would just rip off at our first occasion. To set the desired waste as this high proportion of GDP was somewhat irresponsible because it was quite known that it could not be maintained indefinitely. It's always nice to take a little more space. Another thing I mentioned in the talk is that we regularly get national predictions without any assessment of the wrongs of our last national interest. National forecasts are always wrong, just not for sure about the future. If people are to be wrong, it is good to be wrong in a beneficial way. It is obvious that if we have some assessment of the degree of variation last, we can assume that the abnormality and adapt to it in some way, perhaps even feeling the causes of the abnormalities and gradually improving. This would add to our sense of view. Then there's the other thing, in our economy, there's some segregative weaknesses. The foundation of the economy is unbelievably few commercial plants. They're incredibly interconnected, i.e. The services are around it and that sort of thing. We need to increase our variety or improve our ability to use shock because, as we do today, our system produces a minor impact on the economy. You have to think about the rules of the economy as a whole to make it easier and better to run a business here and easier to live here. By doing so, the government will also become more stable as a result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u265	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr very much. This is a very interesting and pleasant discussion that I hope will be more meaningful when we get to this work next time. All I want to do is go to the present because one of the biggest attacks announced by the current government at the beginning of its reign was a massive press on infrastructure. Now the government has gone apace and has said that this new policy is a responsibility in terms of the fact that it is irresponsible to put up the sails at the same time that the economy is getting together. It is in itself possible to agree with that statement, but it does not matter where the expansion is. If you look at the current financial program, it will certainly change, it can be said that the basic business of about 200 billion proclaimed increases in this program will take on its 185 billion and then invest some 15 billion. It's not an internal buildup, it's just expanding the size of a business. It'd be interesting to hear from you. A senator who is deeply concerned about these things would be carrying a table. It is now clear that some investments will have to wait. In fact, it has been mentioned by some government spokesmen that the rest and these investments will likely have to wait, and I have a clear understanding of that. But is that enough? Is it possible to master this without going into the basic business to some extent when the ratios are as exaggerated as they can be seen between the proposed expansions of this basic business, in the booth, and in new investors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u266	Madam President. I couldn't agree that it's a good time to arrange a few projects. If we are going to have a fluctuating role, there is no point in walking the swing downhill. When we're shrinking the economy, i.e. - Yeah, that's right, it's a small part of the whole thing. [[Up front.]] The big thing is, you're right about what you're talking about. Senator, there's a hell of a waste in the system. I've sent in a number of software requests that have revealed an incredible amount of money in things that should be worth far less than that, in my opinion. There are very many parts of the system that are not as well controlled with money as possible. On the other hand, instead of asking: What wood does society need in order to achieve the most results, we are always looking at a buck and a buck. How do we compromise the results of society? Then we can look at the money afterwards, and we could take steps to apply it, for example. how much the state funds are low right now and let us when there's a recession, when the production pen reduces to some kind of work - people can do more than they do and tools can do more, and they can be used more to build up things for society, even though it costs a government fund a little more now. We then work it up into the next surge, thus maintaining some sort of balance. I feel that so many times I feel that it is being done the opposite of what would be wise to do. People pull their sails together when they're downtrodden, and everything is run to the ground when they're in a fiasco. Of course, the last time you had to drive a little more at the bottom than usual, i.e. Invested investments were more important because there was so much basic investment needs, needs for building up, need for maintenance, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] In general, though, we should try to maintain some sort of balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u267	Madam President. There's been a meeting since this morning. There are 9,30 and the only breaks that have been held at a council meeting, which would normally have been due to large and large votes. Naturally, council members had to meet together. But I would like to ask if there will be a half-hour lunch now, as is done at all times. We know this case will, of course, be finished. No question about it. But I'm going to ask the highest. The president, then, is it not clear to me that there is no reason for this to be violent, except for the more part here at the council, that will immediately declare some situation of war that would surprise me, since there is nothing else here but a very perfunctory debate about the new and changed financial policy of the government, which certainly is not a need to do so. I would simply like to ask: Is it not reasonable to have a half - hour lunch break so that members of the council will have the opportunity to feed themselves? I know there's been something to eat, and I give high hopes that we will be treated with objective fairness and take a half-hour break at this meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[President (BrH): The President intends to interrupt this conference. We'll take a break until the clock. 20th]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u268	A respectable president. I would like to review some of the points of the proposal that we are discussing today. Also, I would like to discuss only the purpose of the proposal and the circumstances it is presented in and why it is submitted, as others do. Senators have done it here. Because of the fear of not having enough time to review all the things I want to go over, I'm going to start with what I don't think would be the most unlikely thing for other senators to mention here on this matter and on a similar subject. With comparable issues, I refer to financial matters in general, which is: In this suggestion, numbers are presented, and there is really too little information to call it in itself, but certainly information based on evidence. They can be found here and there in all kinds of formats. I've had a lot of experience trying to get data in computerized or computerized formats, and the reactions that I receive very little from, in fact, any institution in general that this is a bit of a detail, it's a thread, it doesn't really matter. I can see that to a certain extent because most people are probably accustomed to just working with paper and paper and something like that, but when data is placed in an electronic way and computerized ways, it is possible to do amazing things using computer technology. But you can't do amazing things with your computer technology unless the data are presented in this way. As a result of pirata's time period, the law on public financial law was about the use of the bank's central budget in computer format, accessible format, and it was good. It's gone in and that's where there's some evidence. But what I always feel is missing when a case like this is so easy to process with these data in a computer-created way. It doesn't have to be any senator who does it, I'm not talking about it. It's enough that you can do it over your head. Then you can make tools to help each other. Councilmen with it, or members of a commission secretary, reporters, or analyst, or firm in a town, or the Säldur Bank itself, or anyone. This involves the power of publishing data open and transparent formats, such as the format that all computers can use. It matters, Mr. Honorable President. I mention it in this context because I think that's all that matters when it comes to identifying grounds like those that are behind this proposal. What will a person who is going to consider the underlying factors behind this proposal do? Yeah, he'll probably go to Haguen and look up some kind of data in some kind of profile, probably some kind of pdf file in some other nice articles here and there. But that is not the way to work in the 21st century, a respectable president. It's okay to do it if people are interested in it. But to benefit from them so that they can really tolerate our ability to review these matters, discern correctly, and make plans into the future, or at least try to predict the basis for which the case was placed over our heads, this is of utmost importance. This is, in fact, a fundamental element. I think that's why it's acting like a fat, respectable President, because it's fundamental. This is the first step. It's not the big movie, it's not the big picture, it's not all that you need to say. It doesn't solve all the problems, and it doesn't describe them, in fact none of them materially, but I think it matters, and that's why I mention it in this necklace. I don't know exactly how to communicate this bitch in a better way than here. I will also do so in other matters that involve comparable content. It's the way the data is published that matters. It matters that it is done in the best possible way. It just matters. It is not a political thing, nor is it dependent on the reason. The members of Congress themselves or those in charge of this operation may themselves program something that reads some data in town. No, it just has to be possible over a head so that someone can get the idea of it and let them put it into another computer nerd. That'll do. But the computer nerd can't do that if it doesn't have data above its head. At least it's really hard and doesn't answer the cost. I wish we had more time because even though I could discuss this better, I also feel that I need to review the proposal materially and the context in which it is presented. I have a little difficulty discussing such a matter, so I simply accept a position with or in return, especially with other groups, even though it is an independent party and even the highest. Secretary of finance. I'm not simply against this suggestion, but I think there's one thing positive about it and that's that it exists. There was a time when she never existed. If so, we would not even be discussing the underlying factors behind it. It may seem that I like the law on public finances, and I like that proposal to come up with a discussion when the situation is the way it is today. I like hearing the highest. A financial minister boasts that all the signals he's made were from a town where he was on the way that we were living for a downturn. Whether it is true is a different question, but I think it's positive in nature that boasting is because it wasn't always the case. At one time, it was spoken of speaking down the economy and speaking down the economy. In fact, I suspected that there was something about the attitude reflected in the original motion proposed in the fall, i.e. not to appear from responsible parties, such as the Ministry of finance, that there may be no economic growth, that it would somehow be irresponsible to speak such a system down. I've always felt so bad about the approach and debate that was very much before a crash. I mean, it's a fair part of the collapse because it made every warning message for some kind of enemy of the people. We know that. It made people automatically ignore the warning, which was very negative. Also, most important of all, the authorities never assumed that anything could go wrong. And then, like the 2008 collapse, the disaster happens. But even at the highest. Well, Bjarni son of Benediktsson's financial minister is wrong about our living for the downturn, at least I feel very positive to hear him say that this is because of the fact that we can at least talk about the loss of moods in the economy. If we can't talk about it first, I'm worried. It interests me to consider this suggestion that as time goes on, she seems to expect a cut or a tax rise and throws this discussion into a discussion about budget and financial programmes. It is not addressed materially in the suggestion itself, as it may not be the purpose of the proposal. I feel uncomfortable and cannot say that I look forward to the discussion, but of course it has to be taken. Then comes the very old Keynes theory, which is about how and if the government's terms should be applied to economic management, i.e. to increase expenses and to reduce taxes in the presence of downturns, and in the case of indiscretions. It is always so tempting when it comes to enjoying it and making sure that it is new to all the work politicians want to do at a time. I understand that ambition and share that feeling. And somehow I feel that if you're based on the fine theory that I'm suggesting - I think it's reasonable with all the reasons that I'm having trouble being directly involved or opposed to something, I feel that this sort of thing is usually meant to be just a discussion, a tool to try to reach a conclusion. I think it would be good for a body of Congress to agree whether or not to follow this recommendation. Maybe it's just wrong, but then it's important that we try to get it straight, so we get closer to the economy at all, from the same understanding of how things work. This is a semi scientific phenomenon, economics, which on the other hand is science and voodoo, as they sometimes say, so it may not be quite easy to try to get some cross - political reconciliation on this point. But I think it'd be good to try. I always find it more comfortable if people simply say in a pontta whether they are doing this approach or not because it makes it easier for me to know how to arrange the discussion about the continuation. There are a few things I would also like to discuss, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to arrange for a second talk, a respectable president, to ask to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u269	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator wondered if a balance device should be used in the economy. I'm of the opinion that we should do it and that it's very sensible, especially for such a small economy that is swinging with the catch and on the fish and how many tourists come every year, and so on. We are dependent on these major exports, so we should gather for a good time in the years. However, that did not happen here in 2013:2016/2017 when we were on our way up, of course, we were not supposed to collect in the saddle and not reduce taxes. Then we were to set aside the bitter years, which really come and are now. If we had had such goals in our current policy of making progress, we would have had to do much more than 30 billion to cope with the decline. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me in that the economy from 2013 to the present day has not been reasonable enough when it comes to these things. In blundering benefits, taxes were reduced and expenses increased - surely we needed to increase our expenses because of the large internal debt - but this is not something to say that we have benefited from the benefits of fluctuation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u270	A respectable president. I can say that after being a council member of 2013-2016 and from 2017 to today, it has been my understanding of the issues we've had here for discussion, e.g. We're going to pay off the budget, the collection of the law, as one is supposed to call it now but not the word--I remember very well the tax reductions that came very early in the season that began in 2013, which we criticized then, i.e. To pay taxes at a time when it was not wise to do so. Of course, it is not always a popular cause, but that is how politicians must be able to fight for it. On the other hand, I also have to say that. Councilmen, even fierce. Councilmen on a budget board, even a surly one. Senators who are well - versed, I say, find it difficult to provide complete expansive information about exactly how the tax development has been in its entirety over a very long period of time. This is because when one tax is dropped, others may be raised, and some fees may be paid to cope with it and with all sorts of complications. This involves what I was talking about earlier on the importance of the fact that the data is presented in computerized and professional format so that someone in town can be asked to set them up in plots with no notice. But instead, if I were to go to that question now, it would take me quite an unusual amount of time. I'd have to look up all kinds of data that I could do if I had time to do it, money money, money money money, old government bills, and God knows what to find out, when I should be able to do it myself because it so happens that I'm a programmer, or get some programmer to find out of these things for me. It's not supposed to be such a complicated matter. There's no supposed to be an enormous amount of work to be done, i.e. If the data is displayed in the way I just mentioned, open, and accessible and in format that all computers can use. I think it's so fundamental because this is so much of a prerequisite for effective discussion, e.g. Here in a pita. [[The president calls.]] I know this doesn't answer a question. A senator, but I hope this has drawn us close.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u271	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I've been talking about the years since 2013-2016 as a year of lost tools, the years when we were going up, but there was still a quieter economy, and there were both opportunities and ideal circumstances for investments and infrastructure in those years. Perhaps it was more difficult when we were so caught up in the swing and saw that we were going down. There's lost opportunities and these years don't come back. But the Independence Party has been at the economy all these years. [[Up front.]] The fine band and the present highest. Economic and economic ministers, who sat either as prime minister or financial minister in those years, do not consider fluctuation an option. This is unfortunate, and for that, the public will have to pay. The cost of poor economic management always hits the public sooner or later. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers have named the list of formalities that have criticized the economy and when they doubt that there is actually a legal basis for changing policy now. When a bell is said, it is because when we needed the most routine and clear guidelines to keep on the years before crash, those who wanted to stick to the rules of the game were simply minimized. I want to ask you why. A senator does not recognize this theme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u272	A respectable president. Yes, I know the theme. I also know that each government wants to maneuver the economy in a way that reflects their own long - term ideas about how to operate government. That is why I feel that this conversation is so important that I can get straight with Keynes' theory and that it is followed by some long - term thought about the role it will play. I have always felt that in the debate, as if to do things like this, I should, of course, save to a few years of living, and, of course, to pay for expenses and to reduce taxes and the like when there is a downturn. Then it is not so easy to carry out the task. There's a lot of things like that in politics. This is also the case regarding international assistance, where everyone comes in a pita and says: Of course we should help, of course we should do this, but so when it comes to paying isn't quite as much interest as men don't really want to do it then. Of course, this is a long-term problem, the difference between saying something that sounds good and doing something that doesn't necessarily have a convenient short-term consequences for the clientele group, see the voters. But how to deal with this, I don't know. I think a good step would be to get clear whether there are some economic theories that we can agree on in all the basics. As a matter of fact, I am in a category where there are more than one and more than two economic theories around me, even amongst the whales. The senators of this fine party. But I think it's a key point that for the discussion to become really useful, not just for the people in this room or for the people on a financial committee, but in the community, these data, these figures and their context are published in a way that is marked by ambition, i.e. showing them so that the common people understand and can use them for their benefit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u273	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was interesting to hear him discuss specifically the importance of computer data. I'll agree with that. It was also interesting to hear his interest in the various economic teachings, which could be pointed out in a negative way. A senator should be aware that if he is looking for a variety of economic theories and computerized ideas, the principal economic theory in the world would be found in the first book of the Bible, where we can hear the story of Faraó and his dreams in which he dreamed of fat cows and lean cows. The theme of that teaching is just putting aside the good news and saving to a few years. It is true to say that a government fund has a role in the economy when it meets, increases in public investments, and is positive in contractions. Similarly, a wealth of government should be maintained when the economy is successful. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has not mentioned travel services, but one reason we're reevaluating this policy is a shock related to the tourism service, it's a failure and then we need to reevaluate financial policies. Counts 'em out. A senator that it is possible that the government could underestimate the decline of tourism? [[The president calls.]] Or are we even looking for a worse situation, which means that this money policy, now being revised, may not come about by walking on it, either?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u274	Yes, a respectable president, I would love to sit down sometime with a bang. A senator and a judge of Joseph's Jósef and of Faraó's 41th chapter of the first book of Genesis, but especially perhaps what it means to have Jósef, after all, been a minister of Faraó's, but we may discuss it over a cup later on, on another occasion. As for traveling overseers, this was one of the things I wanted to go out to if I had had more time in my speech. By means of travel services, this proposal is based on the economics of the Hauspium, according to the terrible Icelandic language. I understand that completely, but what I think is a violation of this arrangement and what I find best is that when the proposed proposal to be changed and brought forward to the end of the fall - it was well known that this would not be the longest economic period in human history. It was well known that the top was probably reached in the tourism service and that he would likely bring something down a little, but somehow that knowledge in terms of the economy did not provide for those who made the suggestion. That's interesting to me. I also notice on the grounds given here that the tourism service this year will result in an 11.714% drop, while it is said that the number of tourism is not likely to increase thereafter. That's interesting to me. Are they saying that this is at the bottom of that down cycle? I experience it so that there's just too much optimism there for my taste, i.e. when it is time to make arrangements. In fact, these are not plans, they were the basis for the proposal given that I feel is more important than the plan itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u275	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think he just walked in there on an important point, so it seems that the government doesn't really listen well enough to experts who present their opinion. We saw in our work at a local policy that it warned of too much optimism about the business, the establishments of the industry, the financial organisations, and that you wonder if it's not a concern if you don't listen to those who know the most about travel. The management director of a travel service has now pointed out that the crisis in which tourism is entering will become deeper. You will be only concerned that when you are not listening to the experts when you were working on their policy, you will be affected by a certain lack of ability to make travel. I only wanted to arrive at this brief time each. A senator has examined something special about the national fund in this regard, whether it should fall from its plans and use the funds assigned to the National Fund to enter public infrastructure and investments. It is important in a contraction that the public path into that way, and I ask if it is. A senator thought something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u276	A respectable president. I just think it's a really good idea. It seems to me that this suggestion means that the state will have to come together, raise taxes, and reduce expenses, which I find very bad to do knowing that drains have come, either on the way, or on the way, or whatever human view. Then there is the idea of dealing with economic setbacks. Then you will have to consider whether your goals are better accomplished by making use of the funds to prevent economic setbacks rather than building up the funds. To say, basically I'm in favor, there's something like a national fund with all reservations about how it's started, who controls it, and in what way and also what it's new. I've always understood the idea so that the fund will come to the aid of any setbacks. While we may not see disaster as to this synonym, I would much rather be too pessimistic than too optimistic when it comes to evaluating the criteria for the forecast and especially the possible reaction to them. If we've fixed up a national fund at the time so much that it will bring us down to respond to downturns, it's clearly something that I would at all want us to have discussed in advance and to discuss also a national fund, which is a different matter on the agenda, I remind you that it's on schedule, in the context of this proposal. I think it's a question. A senator, very good and totally worthy of further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u277	Madam President. The government has presented a revised financial policy, but its original policy was adopted on March 22, 2000. As a result, when the government saw the need to make changes in the subject under discussion, the plan covers 2018 and 22022, a little over 14 months of age. Madam President. There is good reason to review some aspects of the official financial law that went into effect on January 1, 2016. On the Board's Homepage, there are some factors that can be said to be related to the Management Board's homepage. so on the role of the Ministry of finance, by permission of the President: In the long term, economic developments are essential to economic prosperity. The Ministry of Economics plays an important role in helping to shape and follow the government's economic policy, taking into account the state and development of the economy within the country as well as the outside. Then I would like to give a witness as to the purpose and purpose of the laws on public finances. That, in fact, is what the Bible ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote good economic management and responsible government of public finance (U.S. The money of the state and the financial community. With this in view, the law is aimed at ensuring a complete and long-term public financial policy, careful planning and legislation affecting the economy of public citizens and the development and handling of public funds. Furthermore, the Management Board's web on these issues states: The law emphasizes long - term thinking, stability, financial discipline, and a better account. They provide a set of guidelines for public finance and provide conditions for integrating economic and financial goals from both state and community. The basics of the law are three: financialism, financial planning and financial laws. In public financial policies the following baseline should always be guided: Sustainableness, precautionaryness, stability, firmness and transparency. Madam President. Finally, the financial policy itself says: A financial policy is the government's plan for the state and development of public finance and their impact on other aspects of the economy, e.g. Home and business. ... The main purpose of financial policy is to promote long-term economic balance, creating a better basis for the more efficient use of capital and resources. At the same time, government policy is used to show how public financial stability and sustainability will be achieved. ... The financial policy provides general goals for the development of public funds that are widely at peace with one another. Thus, the aims of economic policy are expected to be revised only if circumstances are out of control, such as national interest or serious economic breakdown. This contributes to the long-term economic balance and provides the basis for the more efficient use of human resources. Madam President. So now the proposal for a change in current financial policy has been made. When a current policy was set, it could hardly be said to be the wide structure of a financial policy. The current financial policy was adopted by 32 votes, no said 16, ten chose not to vote, and the absence was five senators. The course was highly critical, especially for the fact that it was based on grounds very unlikely. Operational expenditures would be extended to a climax of economic rhythm, which would provide an end to and that a table was not enough. That argument was blown as a pessimist, another coming on the day. In spite of this, when a newly revised policy is being offered, the head is still to strike at the stone in the foretold restoration of financial policy and put the scope for the blind. The evidence now presented for a new course is that unexpected traumas have occurred, and they pass the laws on public finance that only revise policy if circumstances are out of control, such as because of national pressure or a serious economic crisis, as mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, the government did not listen in the first place. She built her city on sand and now reevaluates on the basis of uncontrollable circumstances. On the other hand, there is a legal explanation of the government on public finances that economicism will not be reviewed for the reason that its objective is not attained because of the general weakness of the government of the government of the government of the government of the local authorities. In an explanation of the law, it is stated in this regard that if the conditions for reviewing financial policy are not available, the government is expected to set up an operation in a financial programme to ensure that financial policy goals are met. This is evident when we receive the review of the financial Council whether its conditions are in terms of review policy at the highest level. Governments. Madam President. Don't even think about it, though. A government may be quite misinformed, blaming it for the Fall of WOW arraignment, but neither should have surprised her so. When there were signs of trouble in WOW's business and crisis, there is one thing that Iceland and I have always had to deal with, so it can hardly be regarded as such unexpected events. The rest is that the government has no debt, should not have listened, and is not yet going to do, warning words, and subtly criticism of the fundamental interests of financial policy. Still on the same path, extending the budget, not considering that income stocks are under expenses, continue to believe that the crisis will be very mild and short - is not called a contact? - and then take back flowers in the field. Sadly, however, this position will likely lead to a further development that the government still needs to request a review of its financial policy. Mrs. President, I don't think it's any good luck to be in charge, but it's the best. The minister of finance will be at his former course as well as at present and will say: Well, now we need to unite in the use of common sense. Now we must not be formalists. Now we need a real connection. He says that predictions about the future are difficult and that we should do good. Then the first question might arise: If there is really nothing to do with such a course, what should be the point? Then you may ask, " If these points had been applied to the original policy and are guided by common sense, do not be too formalistic, be realistic, and act wisely, perhaps it would have been better than it really is. '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u278	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager for a very good speech and review of the conditions and existence of financialism in the sense of legalizing public finances. There's two things I'd like to come up against. On the one hand, there's one thing we need in this process, and that's about 9. on the prospects and development of longer-term, likely evolution of community, employment, environmental, demographic, and demographic patterns which may explain why we need long-term commitment to financial policy, which is a fanciful record of what needs to be in financial policy so that we can make some informed decision whether it is practical or not. The other is whether there are any reasons to adopt the financial policy when it is due to meet a few factors, to be economical, national, or all available resources that will not be able to control the problem. In that I see, and I'd like to roll it up with a what. A senator, that there is no more debt expected, even if a lucrative project is available. That's not an option. There does not seem to be enough resources to set up extra income, and cutting expenses does not seem to be an option. There are the three things that are available, but they are completely knocked off the board, no reason why they're knocked off the board, why they're not really acceptable. The rest of it just goes on, and I don't know anything else that doesn't get all the rest, i.e. The one that's farting. [[The president calls.]] There are 40 billion people that could not reach everything, so I wanted to roll up with a bang. A senator of what seems to be missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u279	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Leví for the counterweight. With long - term prospects, however, it is always difficult to look ahead, so policy is set in order to try to anticipate what can be provided and to assume that things can arise. I can think of two things in the context we are now facing. Another is a huge task that will do nothing else, I think, but to add the money side to the state fund, and that's action on climate cover. I think we all need extra expenses. Perhaps not as large as we are in time, but our large business territory is leaving the European Union, Britain. There's a lot of chairs at least One government group spoke extensively about great opportunities in this regard. I'm seeing a new business of money, No. 2/2019, said that Britain is leaving the European Union without a contract that is becoming relatively likely to have up to 0.5% negative impact on economic growth in Iceland. It seems to me that already uprooted the 0.4% that is now being placed in uncertainty in a revised financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u280	A respectable president. Back only to the available issue, if it is simply stated in the context of this motion that the government will not use any of the available resources to meet the decline, is there any reason to adopt the financial policy? I think that's the basic question. It may be possible to explain in a political way, and then it's just the evidence behind it. It may seem that there is no particular reason for financial matters, but it is at least political reasoning that is used in the future and that political responsibility in this regard. I want to finish up a little bit. Is there a basis for reviewing financial policies if these options are not handled?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u281	Madam President. I appreciate the answer and the questions. I am tempted to answer the question: No, because a series of events according to the rules and rules that are to be followed is, of course, the first to resort to drastic measures. I agree with what. A senator said that it is rather strange to see nothing about it in the suggestion now what would have been considered to do within the framework of available resources and why these measures are not being used. I think that must be a prelude to choosing to go the other way, to reevaluate policy in the manner proposed here by the highest degree. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Governments. I agree with the senator that it looks that way to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u282	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asked in his speech at some point in relation to other things that he said: Why such a proposal? I must admit that I also wondered about it. When you hear the suggestion that there is a good way to have a course, you generally think it's a good idea, even in my group. But then you're going to be right there, we're going to put this policy back, contrary to what was meant, to change a policy that was set just a few months ago when we knew and were complained that the assumptions would not work. It points to the economics of the Habitat and all good things about it. It doesn't mean anything to criticize it, anyway. It says that the forecast was not working, and the forecasting process did not work. It is true that Hyster's deficiency and bankruptcy cannot be attributed to the authorities. But it was still in the discussion at the time, perhaps not exactly that, but that something like this could happen and that it would appear that the tourism would at best reach the top and probably go something down as it has walked. Then I wondered about another mystery factor, which I think we are. A senator simply agrees, and there's a way to make such long - term plans, even a policy like this, with a currency that we know is unstable, it's unconvinced that it is unstable, and then it's part of a chain reaction into the economy every time there are any changes like those we're experiencing right now. [[The president calls.]] That is why I leave the question: Why keep this if we know that we cannot maintain the stability needed to allow such a policy to exist over the period it is supposed to take?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u283	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. First the policy thing, I think it's very reasonable for all, and especially the governments, to have a policy and to plan a course very carefully with the best available data and to take into account a lot of things. At the same time, of course, there is good policy in also assuming that there are all kinds of things to come and that we should be built into the policy ahead of time, how we should react. The fact that a big company heads it always happens in years, that a hairy neighborhood always happens in years, and that's why you can build into a policy of these things. The rest of it. A senator wondered if a policy would not be difficult to shape on the basis of an unstable currency. At the very least, the answer can be answered, so it does not make it easier. It may well make it almost impossible. We know that it has always been, also on the recent side of the game, a lot of fluctuations in the currency, and all these fluctuations have an impact, some for good, some for evil, but it's very difficult to build long - term predictions on and to have an internally high uncertainty disorder. It's a simple fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u284	A respectable president. I heard a recent story saying that a company was going to go to the bank and borrow money to be in business and good with it unless the bank had to think about what to do in currency over the next few years and ponder over all the factors involved. When I read these suggestions or suggestions in general when it comes to financial matters at the council, I wondered about the same thing. It is always the dollar that somehow the elephant is in the room, making it very difficult for me to believe that the accuracy of what we expect when we set them is beyond my grasp. We know this instability is there. But what's also so bad about the kroner - Euro gangs is just one of the many factors in all these measurements, but it still has such an excessive chain reaction into the economy of the company's management environment, mortgage, food prices, and everything. [[The president calls.]] I always think it's something that makes it so impossible to have any real trust in such a course while it's like this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u285	Madam President. Yes, I have also heard this fine story spoken of by Hjálmar Gíslason the founder, who made it a matter of conversation that people in the professional world censored themselves extensively when it was expressing themselves or rather not to express themselves about the effects of the crown on Icelandic company and Icelandic innovation. It reminds me of a different story about the same story when the president of one of the companies we're all so proud of, called Assur, spoke of it in connection with innovation that it was as if the wands were gonna pop up in a glacier and then the glacier would always come up, all of it knew, and swept away all the newborns. I think it's old history and new that although we've been living with the crown for so long, we could do much better and have a much more healthy community if we got rid of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u286	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u287	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I cut it off because he named the airline WOW air. There is another reason why the government's financial policy has to be revised, i.e. The WOW airline is bankrupt. It may be true, Madam President, to recall only in that subject, that the media coverage of the WOWir airline was long well-positive and the future of the company in large interest, as we know. Then, in 2017, a major reversal of the business was made. No financial data were published until mid-July 2018 and published their annual accounts very late. In August we learned that there was a loss and that the company was going to a bond post. In connection with the stock market it was found that WOW air's capital was dropped to 4.5% in June 2018, which is very low. However, the Transportation Agency monitors the management of airlines and operates under the scope of this Regulation. The maintenance room should conduct a regular assessment of the financial status of the pilots. Then you wonder: " Why could the Society's financial resources become such? ' You wonder if the government has slept on your guard. Now this failure has led to significant consequences, even called for a review of the government's financial policy. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator would have any idea if he had studied this, if he had any opinion that the Agency failed there, and if the government is partly responsible for the problems created. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u288	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the questions and questions given by the Birgir of Þórarinsson. You can, of course, wonder if this is not an example of government events, so I'm talking about those who control the nation's economics. The answer is very simple, it must be: Yes, people must be aware of it because we are now facing a review of financial policy because the firm was wrong. It is a sin, of course, to do so, but it did. I'll take into consideration a moment or two. The senator that it is at least a worthy subject for how long this is - I'm going to say death war, although it may be inappropriate, could last. It is true that Istavia is a company that collects expenses, and it saw through their fingers with the company and the Rapporteurs saw it, but somehow it did not seem enough. The answers that have come, and I think I'll remember it to the highest. The secretary of finance has described their special satisfaction, that it was a business and market view that the Istavia should not take any action in the light of the situation. [[The president calls.]] You must ask, based on all the money at stake, whether it is really an acceptable explanation of the case, that people were just thinking about a market view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u289	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I agree with him that it is sobering to consider how the WOWir airline's debt point against Istavia was reproduced. This is a substantial amount of up to 2 billion dollars, and it is absolutely uncertain whether these funds will be recovered, as well as if I agree. A senator to respond to the highest. A financial minister takes note when he says that these were strictly business views. Then you ask: Was it not a question of discrimination between other airlines at the Cheflavour Airport by this procedure when this one company received this special payment from a government fund or the state company of Isavia? This truly is part of what would have to be considered in these matters. All of this, however, may be the case. Here we are reevaluating financial policy because one company broke down, and there was a fallout. [[The president calls.]] Have we really come to the conclusion that we cannot be affected more than this, that we need to reevaluate financial policies and a great deal of uncertainty ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u290	Mr. President. It is this with business views, competition, and discrimination. So the person standing here asked a few questions just about Istavia and how to pay and collect from that fine company. Then the comments showed that basically there were rules that could therefore be found on the company's website and that, of course, everyone at the same table was sitting there; it would be perfectly clear what it was like. Since then, it has been found that the rules were at least something bends, and it seems to have been done, as they say, for commercial purposes. Of course, there is discrimination for those who are struggling to deliver their money if their rivals get away with not doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u291	Mr. President. Here we are discussing the government's new financial policy because the old one did not keep water and worked only for a few months. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics and Economics recommended this new course here at 5 p.m. 15 today. Since then, no one has. A member of the council is in a speech and allowed us to have a conversation about this important document. True, there is. Councilmen, chairman of the budget board and head of the Economic and Business Committee, were here in protest, but this is no substitute for speeches, so I call to it, President, that governments are involved in a discussion of the government's five-year financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u292	Mr. President. It's gonna take a little bit to get government financial policy recorded, just like we're doing here today. By permission of the President: The circumstances that mainly justify or after an incident require a review of financial policy may, for example, be considered in the following article. have been serious problems in job activities, unpredicted recession in the state of the country, natural disasters, or national problems. This is taken up from a report by the revised financial policy we now discuss. Looks pretty fast to me, like a dog. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir came in earlier, no member of the board has been speaking so far. There is no member of the board on the rosary, it seems to me that there are ten people on the rosary as it stands today, so the lack of interest is quite different when you see that only two members of the board have made a decision. Óli Björn Kárason and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, who are very different from others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u293	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with other members of the council, this is a bit odd, especially in view of the fact that this is an urgent reason for careful discussion. This discussion has not been particularly long, much less objective, on the contrary, on the basis of the failure of the previous government financial policy. This is the first time at the General Assembly that the government has to reconsider its economic policy from its foundation and not every member of the board will address the matter. It's like the highest. The secretary of the budget is put on his own with that crime. It may not be so surprising that no one wants to know the problem, except the highest. Minister, but it would certainly be useful if the representatives of the greater part were prepared to join us in discussing this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u294	Mr. President. I'm gonna join in with my colleagues. We all know that there is a considerable need to adopt government financial policies to five years of age, although it has come to us today that it is perhaps less than we did not think so long ago. It does not make it difficult, therefore, to explain the systematic absence of a member of the council hall from the conference with other things than that either it seems so trivial that the discussion is unnecessary - and it is difficult to reach the conclusion if this paper is to be written by this paper and word of the highest degree. Under such circumstances, a minister of finance - or those who are so shocked that they do not trust in the discussion and give up the highest power. Secretary of finance hangs here alone. Speaking of which, I miss the highest. Secretary of finance from the discussion. He hasn't been seen since dinner break and I'd appreciate it if he at least seat here, listen to and participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] In fact, most of all, I wanted to see more executives to handle the big case, although it's difficult to appreciate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u295	Mr. President. I used to talk earlier today about a very long, deep - seated failure culture at the General Assembly, which is caused by many things being made too fast in the shelter of some kind of local pressure. Here we are talking about a case that is both prepared for pressure and is trying to correct the fact that the last financial policy, which was, in fact, pushed against the local press and not done well, failed. The fact that some senators don't seem to see a reason to participate in a discussion about that is a little strange, I must say. I don't make a comment to the President's conference board as such, but I'd like more members of the council to take this case seriously. This is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u296	Mr. President. One and a half years ago it was said here, but another government was: The President of the United States. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. One thing is that the government does not have more success than it does, which in itself is fine. Another is that she has no more faith in her own matters than that she cannot stand before them and have a word with us. Third, it's sad, so I'll let myself use that word, how it goes. The members of the Management Board have no more regard for the local seminar than for any member of the Parliament to participate in a general debate over a administrative network, which should normally be about all the bills, let alone the bill as the highest level. Ministers in the government have claimed to be the most important bill in the season of election. On this bill, the administrative body seems uninterested. What are some of the people here at the Council? That's what it said. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé back then, and those words are very relevant today. I have to say, we who are in the government's stand now are just soft and all too good to this government in comparison with this expression. [[The president calls.]] That, however, is a true word. A senator told them, and they are very relevant today. I would like members of the government to participate in these important discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u297	A respectable president. Why is this important? We're dealing with economic crisis, national crisis. According to official financial definitions, this is the basis for reevaluation of financial policies. It is the standard we are considering, and this suggestion is about how to fix it, how to prevent it, and how to correct the situation in this area as a economic or national problem, and when discussing how this proposal should be adapted to that condition. That's what I think, a respectable president, it's very strange, so I'm calling back, like the rest of them. Congress officials have made it clear to us why this is an adjustment to what is called a economic crisis or national threat. I don't understand because it's not logical. I've called for it several times in these discussions, and there are certain conditions that must be met to adopt the economic policy. [[The president calls.]] The decision has been made, but the reason has not been explained. Is there really a national and economic crisis or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u298	Mr. President. I challenge it. Councilmen coming in here and participating in discussions about this important document. We're talking about the government's financial policy, which assumes three years of state funds sludge. We're talking about a financial policy that's more than 40 billion worse than it is, or less than the current policy. That's a big deal. Could it be, Mr. President, that the Minister's Department of Ministers is so much in the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir to the highest degree? Economic and economic ministers are on the side of the government alone to bring up the dark policy we are discussing and that no one is allowed to speak out of the government but him?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u299	A respectable president. Last week, the third energy package was discussed, and then it went wrong. It's the middle party in a terrible code. The person standing here had a few things to say about the third energy package. And the speaker who received something for it, not much, but people wondered what kind of team he was in: " How is it that he is participating in this discussion? and all that. I find it so boring, a respectable president, how to be viewed automatically as a part of a conversation here as if it is being delayed, especially when it is viewed by the government or by those who favor it. I had a discussion about the third energy package, not a million times, maybe two or three times, which one I can't remember. I had a wealth of separate talks, and they can be identified. They weren't filibusters. I had nothing to do with them. But people automatically judge them that way, just because they were talking about something that the government wasn't up to. I think it's really bad work. This is, unfortunately, kind of nominate here, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] But I got it. Councilmen in charge to change that culture because it's only them, okay? Senators who can do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u300	A respectable president. I'd like to join in with more heads. Councilmen here. This must raise a question in view of a government policy for financial matters. Such practices are severely restricted by the laws on public finances. It takes some major event in the Icelandic economy to do so. However, the situation today seems to be so trivial in the government section that no member of the body is in need of the greater part of the discussion, much less participating in it. You ask: Does this mean that it is really the conditions that need to be taken up for financial policy first that the administrative sector does not consider the situation to be more serious than that it is not even fatigued? It's a bit strange and it's actually quite remarkable, for example. no representative of the more part of the budget sees the reason to sit or participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u301	President. I only agree with my colleagues who have come up here, but it's rather sad that no members of the board are involved in this discussion. I'm sorry that we're in a place where we're in such a hurry with these huge cases that governments don't even come up here to participate in the discussion. Why? Because people are afraid that the discussion will be delayed in some way. You have to rush it through so hard. It's a huge deal we're talking about here, and it's basically half-empty. There's no board of directors here, chief. Secretary of finance is here -- yeah, there's one. [[Foreground on, I'm on it.]] Yes, it can be part of the discussion. We're just asking for a serious discussion on a huge subject, and it's okay to stay here and participate. We are not trying to run this issue into the endless. We'd like to have a financial discussion, and I'd challenge the executives to ask and talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u302	Mr. President. I agree with the approach that has happened. Councilmen of Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Halldóra Mogensen regarding this strategy. It's true that we're always trapped in the same outfit, and it's actually gotten worse than it has been at the time I've been attending a council, and I know a lot of things here. Yet, this government, with trumpet blasts, began to improve the Senate work. It hasn't been done. It's clear that this financial policy goes to a committee. Nobody's trying to kill things out. We just want to talk about something important. This is the first time that financial policy has been submitted and for the first time that it has been changed, after a 14 - month life period. It's a big case, it's serious. Because I quoted a member of the management and management body now and I want to go to an armed cohesor who may not always be a role model, but I think it's perfectly clear that we're going to want it, and I'm asking that Prime Ministers also sit in meetings for the rest of the discussion and participate in it first government members don't do it. [[The president calls.]] At least I want to know why Prime Minister is not here. This is a fundamental piece of business for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u303	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u304	Mr. President. The discussions have reasoned that the reason for this systematic absence of a member of the board is not necessarily a fear of participating in the discussion, not necessarily that it is not worth it, but that it is too trivial to save time. That's interesting in itself, because it may not be the first thing that comes to mind when it comes to basic government laws, I don't talk about any other kind of attack on basics. I think it's very important to get a view of this discussion by the Directorates of the Commission, and it's certainly necessary that the chairman of the legal committee and the head of the Economic and Business Committee have at least one member. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. I'm going to try to offer it as a exchange of my second speech for a senator from the top of the board and I'd like to see if some left-green senator could come in here and show some interest in the big news that's going on in the state affairs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm told, and then there's no more time shortage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u305	Mr. President. I had imagined that I would do the same. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson did the right thing. I can do better because it's shorter for me to get to the rosary than it is. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson So I'm here offering an invitation to those sitting at the side halls and the representatives of the government parties who will hear that I'm probably taking myself to the end of the roster and offering them my place on the rosary to the one who wants to come here and participate in the discussion with us. I think it would be to improve her and deepen her and maybe put a face on the whole discussion that she's improving, although I certainly don't interfere with the pleasure of being there. Secretary of the budget is here with us now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u306	A respectable president. It's fun when people miss you. Usually, I have been a little busy speaking from this platform, thinking that I was speaking under all the financial concerns, financial schemes, and financial laws that have been proposed since I attended the council. I have followed the discussion carefully today, even though I have not been able to resist, as has been said in the discussion under the supervision of the president, has been a subject and a good discussion, and generally two or four objections to every talk, so the discussion has been significant. But I must admit, Mr. President, that I am still realizing whether this is a very minor issue or not, whether it was entirely predictable that a business would blow a major impact on tourism and that it would be a failure. If that were so predictable, would it have been wise to assume that in financial policy? I have listened to these talks, and I intend to listen to some additional talks to decide whether or what it is really being said here on this matter. [[The president calls.]] What would it have been more reasonable to do? [[The point is, I'm interested to hear that you...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u307	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here to thank you for giving us a stronger hand at the council meeting today. At the beginning of the day, we were deeply concerned that the day would not last to discuss this matter, and for that reason we were deeply concerned that we had to stay in the night, but now it seems to me that it is happening to governmental opposers that time is running out. The second talk is on the schedule, and the discussion will soon be over. Then something must be taken into account, such as talking about the President's conference board and agreeing with one another that they are indicting officials. Of course, people can talk about it for an hour and think it's the road, the problem and the respect of the council, but I allow myself to question it. Is it not just that the government's opposition has run out of reasons to speak against the matter and wants to start talking about something else, such as whether the chairman is doing his job?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u308	President. I want to direct those words to the highest level. Secretary of finance that many people will think of me. Not everyone plays the old political game as the ultimate. The secretary of finance is now in his fallout for a meeting board. It was never about the fact that we had to be running this case and talking about it all night long. It's about the highest. The president takes into account the request of the government, and he meets us in some way, and the members of the board share in this discussion in some objective way and we have a serious conversation. That's what this is about. We need not resort to any means to do so. We don't have to be here in some sort of classy, political act to do that. This is just an honest attempt to have a conversation about something very important. I'm sorry to tell you that. A financial minister should arise and try to minimize it. I think this is the attitude we've had in a series of cases from the President of the Parliament, from the council, that we're in some kind of games, but it's not the case, at least not from my point of view. [[The president calls.]] Please have more respect for us and the council than that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u309	A respectable president. For exactly this matter, the government's financial policy to five years, of course, including the past, I think that the best action would be that governments would come here to explain to us why this is really the most important thing that is going to happen that there is a need for a review of financial policy. I can see that it can be reasoned, but I don't see that logic, it just needs it. It does not explain what available resources are available but are not used or inadequate. It's completely missing. I can see it simply so that it is government financial policy throughout the term, and officials are not coming to do their duties in the actual presentation of this proposal. Rather, they just sit in the side halls and listen, and they are waiting somehow for the discussion to be over. [[The president calls.]] Is that good for democracy, really?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u310	A respectable president. I think it's the best. Secretary of finance a little bit of the official viewpoint we're pointing out exists. The view is that this discussion is a formality to spend time, that it is merely a part of a routine exercise to wait for a committee without any discussion here. I don't know how to put it any clearer than the highest. A minister did his own best to tell the truth. Likewise came 2nd. We're out of here. " Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and seemed to have something to offer, something that I would be very interested in hearing more about and perhaps asking about, but then I feel that it's a problem. A senator should be on the rosary. That's how I feel the discussion should work. Of course, I can only speak for myself, but all of this third energy package bullshit and the situation that we're in right now I don't know how the government would have been able to approach this in a better way in terms of having a more objective discussion. [[The president calls.]] I feel that the majority of the material is culminating the opportunity to improve culture only at the General Assembly, and it should be at the end of the majority of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u311	Mr. President. I remember that when a political agreement was made, the council should be placed in particular, its respect, and its cooperation with the council. Not much of that is the case, people of that race have not been seen at all in the Senate Hall for several hours. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is concerned that we are running out of evidence. We already talked about this, don't you think it's going to be six hours? Something's been said there, but it's got to be very obvious if you're to help from the fact that we've needed six hours to talk about our argument, that there's absolutely no evidence. They don't need one minute to explain their reasons. Isn't that perfect innuendo, chief? Secretary of finance? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u312	A respectable president. First, it is not true that the directors have not participated in the discussion. The case is raised by a minister of finance who is present, gave his story talk, and answered all key spokesmen of government opposition. After that, they may miss not making others respond. But do any of those who are present to listen to their previous letters, to study the Senate document, to listen to the discussion, become involved? I think it's a bit far enough to expect men to do it. Is it not just the matter that was seen, and I refer back to the beginning of this meeting where people were having trouble with the length of meeting, and how could anyone continue to delay the Senate work as the government has done over the past few weeks, that man is beginning to realize that the discussion is running out? And isn't she just fine? It has been much longer than it was last, and so has our last financial plan. [[The president calls.]] Is that a special problem? Would a football team that gets to be one on the field and score a field on the other side of the game be complaining about it, or perhaps they haven't scored a goal in this game?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u313	It's not about hitting limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u314	Is this a game?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u315	A respectable president. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister islittled by the comment that the public financial legislation allows to review financial policies in the current situation. V.E.G. A minister will call them a name, then. Councilmen who criticize the ringy way in the economy as a formalist, a somewhat familiar theme of a crash when procedures and clear rules were minimized just when we needed them most. I'm worried about this, Mr. President. The concept of a government's setting up a five-year financial policy is to provide a solid basis for the government's budget and that governments have to think beyond the vote period and look ahead. The policy is to be transparent, so everyone understands where the government is going in financial terms with measurable goals. The law also requires firmness in not changing its course quickly according to the wind's blows. It takes major trauma. Stability and sustainability are also legal values on which financial policy should be based, and especially careful. Official financial policies are expected to be submitted only once during each terms and values for five years, or until a new government establishes a new policy. The financial policy is one of the most important contracts of the season. It involves a great commitment to how to deal with government tax and spending policies. It must be adhered to by the government, and its review is under strict conditions. According to 1 0... the law on government finance can only be revised if its core managers fail or are predictable as a result of economic failure, national or other circumstances that are impossible to handle with available resources. It is not enough that governments want to change their policy or that some weaknesses have been treated by the government of government that they prefer to reroute. Governments are to take action on a financial agenda that will result in the achievement of financial policy goals, whether on the income side, on the pay gate, or under payment. Budgetism is the basis for public financial policies, and its economic factors are discussed specifically in Article 8. it's a government law. This article says that policy is based on solid basis and data prepared objective and systematicly and public interest rates and national interests. In particular, policy measures are taking into account the economic and economic impact of government plans. In order to see how governments operate, the demand for transparency is made. It was particularly disappointing that in the proposal of the government and most of the budgetary committee on current financial policy, there were no clear comments of a financial Council on a number of factors that are important, taking into account policy measures that should last. Now that tourists are down, unemployment is going to grow. In addition, some unrewarded investments, with the related cost to the public, will be paying off. Each percentage of unemployment costs 61⁄2 billion dollars. It's not just the drop of WOW, as discussed, that made it necessary to make a new course, or the hairy failure. I'm worried about it, Mr. President, that the downturn will be deeper than expected in this policy, and I'm concerned about the recent news that large airlines have stopped flying to Iceland for the summer. They don't give up the reason why WOW ar's gone under, but simply that there's less interest in Iceland. There is, indeed, reason to worry about that. Then, financial council also made serious comments on the current course and the new course, because current policy did not take into account the practical correction. That's what makes the new direction the highest. Neither is the government. If this has been done, it is clear that the estimated amount of money left over should have been greater than the current policy. From the financial guidelines of that policy, it was apparent that rising income would be needed so that the welfare system would not be cut down if the situation changed into the economy and the government could land into a straitjacket of financial policy. It has now been found that the criticism of the financial Council, which the government and the government gave very little of it, was justified. A financial conference pointed out that considering the extent of the uncertainty of the future, it would not be advisable to encourage all the forces of economicism. The Council considered that one percent of the remainder's targets is too accurate and pointed out that the public financial legislation did not eliminate the possibility to set goals in a number of ways, e.g. with point estimates, one-sided or two-sided intervals, with or without conditional conditions. The government and the majority of the legal committee ignored these financial recommendations as well as others. It's for a long time. The F.A. and Business Committee sent them what? The budget on finance policy was dealt with just this point. Hv. A financial and business committee spoke of it in his review that it was desirable to do what was right. A legal committee made changes in harmony with what financial counsel suggested. But neither was it followed. They chose to stay in their straitjackets. How does the Supreme One react? Economic and financial ministers at a press conference with new financial policy? Yes, by pointing out that the current financial policy is based on Iceland's National Organization of Economics from November 2017, which included a continuing economic development in order to have a cumulative economy of about 14% through the time of prophecy. So the trouble is, rather than the irresponsible policy of the government. Mr. President. We are well aware that fortune - telling models used for economic purposes, whether at the Haf living room, the Secret Bank, ASI, or the banks, are not perfect. Prosthesibility is a matter of principle, but there are weaknesses at the same time. Each person sees that the economy, such as ours, is being built on big business such as tourism and fishing roads, is swinging along by a number of tourists who come here and catch up and get caught. It is true that tourists and fish types can move to other countries and through other means. That is why it is so important to prepare the economy for the swing, so that the government's affairs work against downturns and a museum in the circle. This needs to be reflected in financial policies that are designed to survive. The government's recovery and debt status need to provide opportunities to use public funds in a balance. But it's not the ultimate policy. Governments. The terms are not used for that purpose. Instead, real - life growth is expected and will pay for similar economic growth in the season, according to the optimistic predictions of an endless economy. That was the policy of current financial policy. Auto-motivating in terms of government affairs simply does not mean that income and cost will grow equally. The balance is thus removed. A financial body pointed out that it would best not to be included in any type of expenses or on the income side but to make the built - in fluctuation control. But it is not government policy that ignored all financial tips. I hope it's the government's turn. The budget will change new policy in accordance with the figures of a financial Council that is due later this week if I have understood correctly. Mr. President. I don't have time to finish my speech and ask the president to put me back on the rosary. But I can finally say that the economy of the state of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir is not comforting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u316	A respectable president. It is not true that I waslittled those who have criticized the government's arguments for new financial policies. I have simply said that their presentation is far too small for the economy and that it focuses solely on the goals that we have seen in the financial policy we have previously agreed on, 2017, and then they just hang on the numbers there and say, "We have to stick to what was said. All I'm saying is, come into the reality we live in today and ask yourselves why we're doing all of this together. [[Up front.]] We're setting up public finances so that we can reach the baseline, the goals of the law, which are legalized. We're helping people draw out their lives, improve their standard of living, raise their financial resources, work on stability, keep up inflation, the high level of employment, pay up debts, etc. and our success will be measured by this standard, not by the total targets set since 2017. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u317	Mr. President. Now I can't speak except for myself. What I'm critical of is the highest. Government and supreme. Economic and economic ministers have spoken over a year ago for financial policy that was completely unrealistic, as financial advice and many community experts warned us that as soon as the results arrived, we would get into trouble. That's what's at the top. A minister then rebelled against public financial law, as he is now doing. In the United States, we wouldn't have created a policy like this in the beginning. The modern policy was completely unrealistic, and everyone said, and it could be seen - unless, of course, the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u318	A respectable president. Modern policy was never unrealistic because it was based on official grounds and practical in comparison. Whatever it is. A senator does not seem to understand, which is so fundamental, that we are not making a new course because the policy itself has broken down on the basis of the economic forecasts that have been in effect and still exist. No, we're reacting to a change of criteria. It's not changing direction. The course remains the same; working on stability, working on balance, being cautious, looking long-term, etc. It's policy. Then you have to adapt to your individual circumstances. Hv. Hence, a senator cannot speak as we have under all circumstances adopted a new course. I don't understand how people are getting stuck in this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u319	Mr. President. That's what's at the top. The financial and economic minister doesn't seem to understand that he drove through here and got an executive to accept an irresponsible policy. V.E.G. The financial and financial secretary does not seem to have understood the criticism of a multicultural financial body. The financial adviser said: A policy like this will put costs on the public, the welfare system will need to subtract if the management team intends to accept policy. That's what financial advice said. It was in its review and it seems financial and economic ministers don't understand. [[Up front.]] Me and us in the United States would have prepared the economy for the predictable downturns. She was predictable. [[Up front.]] It was not necessarily predictable, but it was predictable that this article would result in subjugation and even failure. [[The president calls.]] We are in such an economy, and we were supposed to prepare the economy for it. But that was not done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u320	Mr. President. We should've prepared the economy for the down cycle, says "wow." paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir. The debt of state funds is now below 30%, nearly 28% of gross domestic product, from 86%. That would have been 85 billion leftovers of the state's funds in 2014-2018 and the irregular sections 390 billion. The foreign status of the nation's population has never been so good. So we have 597 billion credits. Outside, but there were less than 5% of the domestic product here in 2015. This is what I call preparing the economy for a down cycle. This is exactly what I call being in a position to deal with the challenges of a temporary downturn. [[The president calls.]] That's how we live for the best, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u321	Mr. President. Now the Independence Party has been in the government since 2013. In 2013 we recovered from the depths of economic depression, indeed, a financial shock, and in a swing when the economy was still lax, we should have built up the infrastructure that had to endure cuts, both transport infrastructure and community infrastructure. Then we were to build them up and make use of the income we had. What, though, did the government do when it took over, the government of a forwarding party and an independent party? It began by removing the financial plan of the former government, which was about to build wood and lower hunting costs, lowering taxes on the way up as a historic economy. [[The president calls.]] If things had been different, the infrastructure, the health system, schools, the police, and the roads would have been better prepared to take the current down cycle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u322	Mr. President. You might think so. A senator thought that there had been a bloody cut when large contributions have been made, both for the interior and especially for the common health and education systems. We're starting a major transport application, so we're making the best of it, huh? Senator. When it comes to it, like party partners - and what. There is also a member of that group - speaking here about always weakening income companies, that taxes had been dropped, etc., etc. A senator was a minister of finance, and he proclaimed to be a minister of finance to set, for example. by the tax of riches, for it would be an evil tribute, and it would be temporary. This is shown in an interview with the issue of business on August 25, 2012. That's why. A senator that the wealth tax is temporary and that it falls. Not right, what. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u323	Mr. President. The wealth tax as it was placed on trial after a financial breakdown was temporary, yes. When he was last collected $12 billion, we received a government fund. There were technical defects in that tax, as he was laid up. And, yeah, I wouldn't want us to put on that money tax. This does not mean that rich people must be taxed. We need to look at the inequities that grows up here, especially on the property side, so if we put on a moderate spending tax and using housing outside parentheses, we could get 7 billion dollars. In the box and you could make use of it, for example. to invest in the down cycle. But I understand why. Government officials here, both in the media and from this chair, are to delay investments in the decline. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u324	A respectable president. Prior financial policy, current financial policy, failed to anticipate the possibility of a downturn. That's why we're standing here because it wasn't expected before. It was the problem of a previous course. That's why we have a new course now, sure enough. The same objectives, it is slightly added to expenses of uncertainty, etc. And yet it's a new course. For new policies to be taken, there are special requirements that must be met before possible, these available resources. I wanted to ask the highest. former financier to the resources that could be used. I'd like to think of borrowing, cuts, or income, and I just wanted to think about it. A senator now had what else he could do to cope with such downturns, the available resources. So, is there any progress on the available deliberation? [[The president calls.]] I don't see that there is even an attempt to use available resources to meet the decline, and hence, if they are not tried to use them resources, how can it be said that they did not have enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u325	Mr. President. I think we're in this bad situation, not just because the current financial policy has been badly planned and irresponsible in the down cycle and the problems we face. I'm not making him look down. What a problem we need to face! But then the government groups cannot agree on whether to cut or raise income. The person on the far left wants to earn money, but the one on the far right wants to cut down. What remains? What's left of you is going to walk on the rest and run a government fund in the middle of nowhere. That's the solution. Of course it's very serious. To say that we need, it would be best if we could do it together - when we listen to a member of the board, it's like they're in the race how to ask the most instead of just saying, "Here we're in a lot of trouble. [[The president calls.]] If we do not get along properly and work together on the economy, the cost will affect the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u326	A respectable president. I wondered if walking on the rest is an option. Now that the uncertainty gap has been added, it is certainly an option. But the setting of financial policy is that policy is about what the stock of the state is to be made up of these years. It's policy. Hence, it is a new course, certainly with the same goals and not with the same implementation, not at all. It's not the same reaction on this course. It seems that the new direction is exactly like this: we have to take the other things and these projects and the only available course, like hell. A senator pointed out that because they do not want to increase their loans, although they may even be profitable in relation to the work that needs to be done, they do not want to go to the level of income, as it were. A senator points out, and will not cut down expenses either. Their available resources are not established before they undergo a change in financial policy that is not an option. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u327	Mr. President. Perhaps it is proper to review who was the one who put so much emphasis on sufficiency laws and the inflexibleness of financial policy. That was just the best. Economic and financial ministers who in their time brought these financial rules into the public financial bill. I'd also like to remember that there was almost one piece that wasn't comfortable with this room. When we took care of the government law on government finance, I remember that I left this chair that as soon as the Conspiracy got in a position to do so, it would change 7. Act on official financial matters and 10th par. on financial policy. It's a matter of course, I think, and I'm probably expecting a government to set up financial rules and policy, but it's not supposed to put the rule and bind numbers and standards in law. That, however, is the ultimate idea. The financial and economic minister now in trouble because he cannot meet the conditions he would love to set himself. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[For the record, all financial policies.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u328	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Oddný G. The Harðardóttir Daughter's talk. I can't agree with that statement. A senator says that the responsibility is being cast on fortunes. I can't agree with that. Then I guess we'd just be ignoring the prognostication. Hv. A senator refers to Article 10. In a report with 1 0 st. it is said that if there are problems in the job or inaccessible recession in the state of the estate, the minister should submit a revised policy. That is because we cannot achieve such a happy goal without exaggerating the swing. If we do, we're going against the baseline policy on sustainability and stability. This is well - thought - out on page 6. 7 of the report I'll come in on in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u329	Mr. President. When I say what. When the managers are excusing their apology that after a few months they need to set a new course because the other is so bad, they say, and that is also in the report. We had to aim for the economy, it was so optimistic. It's just some excuse. Of course, the economic forecast was optimistic, given the premise, and it is a standard that governments use and the highest. The financial and economic secretary uses it when he puts out his policies, but it's political how we value our weaknesses, how we're going to think ahead and be careful, so we can see to it that our government funds will be sustainable. Now we're driving it in a minus. [[The president calls.]] It will not be sustainable for the next three years, according to the new policy of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u330	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. No, we're not running in a corner, it's being run this in a balance. Money and expenses meet at zeros, but if it goes worse than you can see, there's certainly an uncertainty gap built here to trust the basis and setting, which I believe is perhaps a major issue in this revised policy. Let me refer to the report on page 18. 7, with President's permission: ▪ Now, in the face of severe interference, it seems that there is reason to learn the lesson from experience that there is a need for confidence in the framework of policies and plans for public finance by building more room for financial policy, which is growing as it passes, and uncertainty becomes greater. Such space would not have to be legalized. The question remains that Sweden has won this as much as I know it. A senator knows this very well: Should such an uncertain mood be built up here to be a political decision at any time when a government puts forth its policy or legalized?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u331	Mr. President. I'm on the level that this is supposed to be politics for every government, but we're supposed to make the claim that she's setting a course and keeping it. I voted against 7th paragraph. law on government finance, and 10th par. It's too tight. It is also an assessment of what is a financial crisis and what is a national threat. Now that we've put this kind of thing into the law, we need to define what this means. It's not done. I think it would be a thrill to take up a discussion about these articles, Article 10. and 7. .., the financial rules that in themselves disintegrate the balance role of the state funds, and that will always bring us into trouble. It will always lead to bad decisions that affect the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u332	A respectable president. We are here because economic forecasts were used as minimal during the last financial policy. It was not expected that there would be losses such as what we are facing today, which means an economic crisis or national threat, according to the definition that this proposal is submitted to Congress. It's just what we're facing because this document is on the table. It is now clearly discussed in the law on public financial matters when economicism should be adopted. All available strategies must be addressed before reviewing financial policy. What I've been calling for. However, according to the report provided with this suggestion, the available resources are not explained and why they are not sufficient to meet the economic and national problems we face. The obvious measures I see are about to cut. Only in the report can it be said that it simply is not available and that it violates the baseline stability and precautionary values and the like. Applying a new financial policy cannot adequately explain the defect of a previous course. I feel that then it would be necessary to admit that a previous financial policy was with the built - in defects that she did not plan for a downturn. There is another possibility of increasing income levels. As far as I can see, it's not explained why it is not available to take on extra income. We've heard during discussions that the bank tax is being postponed, that there is a cessation of a tax reduction for some time, a form of income gain. That won't do. Is there anything else that can be done? Why is this not done? Is that not the political will? So that's just the situation? In the end, it's borrowing. If we were in the environment of a law on public financial matters, as the law says, we would have a prior priority on a list of priorities that would be costly and profitable. With that list, we would obviously see, in view of the billions of missing ones, what projects will fall out, and we would see the benefits of those projects. Then we could easily compare whether it would be costly to borrow a small loan, as we have recently been able to do and still do the work. Their interest would not be just as profitable, but they would still be profitable. There is one point that financial advisers have suggested that certain requirements can also be set up if the project being carried out is shown to be profitable for national preparation as a whole. That's what I feel is a lack of a proposal to conspire about a change in financial policy. It's a new financial policy, really. I don't like public financial law when it comes to the fact that a new financial policy is supposed to be five years old. It has been said that it would be pointless to have financial policies longer than the next election period. But having financial policies into the past is just as useless. If the interpretation that appears to have been used in this case is to be used only some year for financial policy, some five years - why not 17 hundred and something, just like 2018? In fact, it is just as out - of - date as it was in the last century. The financial and financial policies that are put forward every year to update the government's budgets and policies, are presented right up to the last year's term, despite the establishment of a new election period, in line with a new government thereafter, because the government is responsible to show the cards. Government responsibility is to show how economic prospects can continue for several years, but they also need long - term policies. And once again, when I give a speech on the budget, you can see in the steps of the highest level. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u333	A respectable president. I wondered about one thing, " What? ' Senator. It is out of control when there is good reason to try to stimulate the economy, e.g. with money - making investments, as the senator made his point. We were actually dealing with the problem that the government's budget actually encouraged the economy in the thawing, in the rise, and a considerable amount of space that otherwise would have been spent in an increase of basics. We have certain financial laws on government finance but the problem with the rules, as it has been repeatedly noted, in criticism of them, from the time they were discussing these laws at the time, is that this typical Icelandic embezzlement of government funds, where expenses are greatly increased in the economy, only since the need to reroute the sails in times of tightness and then these rules have not harnessed any of the economic growths we have had in reference to. The large cost increase that took place in 2004-2007 was well within the regulations of the law. The same was true of the huge growth that took place at the financial expenses of the earlier economic growth period, between 1995,280, and again. There was never a violation of the rules or frameworks set up by these budgets, but we still see a completely impenetrable growth in the money. What do you think? A senator? How can we change these criteria in order to prevent this from happening over and over again?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u334	A respectable president. We began to address this idea in response to my first talk. There I mentioned that this uncertainty bed should even walk in both directions, that if the average economy is somewhere around 2◯3% the average economy in the leftovers to be returned, 2%, maybe 1% or something like that is the guidelines we're taking. For each extra target interest increase above that projection, an additional 0.5% may be submitted and the same downhill, there is a set of distances to go down and give no rest even though there is a recession in the economy. I think this might be a good rule of thumb, although it is not necessarily restricted to public financial law, except perhaps some kind of criteria, that we would also like to be able only to swing within, that there is also a certain amount of room around average economic growth, on a particular economic government as well. Sometimes we would like to go beyond and sometimes to a slightly lower economic growth, and that is the policy, that the basic rule of thumb is that it is some of the maximum and minimum targets in excess of the economy, as stated above or below the economic forecasting that will give us more leftovers or less leftovers as we go around the economy. If we started there, perhaps we could have the injection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u335	Mr. President. I feel that this is an interesting thought over the years. A senator who deals quite well with viewpoints that have been presented, including the following: ... fora budget. The very idea may be that at the beginning of each election period, economicism would be established immediately and that it would immediately be used in the terms of the state's financial issues. Then there would be some kind of equality over a financial period, not necessarily fixed down to each year. The more economic growth than modest projections assume that it will be left over and not immediately spent on increased expenses, but it will allow room to overcome the possibility of some downturn. Thus, a government at any given time can cope with unexpected economic traumas with the scope of such development and thus do not need to reevaluate financial policy in the smallest impact, even entirely predictable events, as this is, but have been built up a caution gap and have assumed that there is an average of five years of recovery. I think that by attaching the name sizes on the budget of state funds over the period, we immediately provide state funds and government at any time much more maintenance so that it is not as it has been, for example. that we get a plan, and then we have a more economic growth, and then it's revised, and everything that's taken care of, and then it goes off, and the government's going to the limit, just so that there's no room for space since or a table for trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u336	A respectable president. We are in the very condition where these are the reasons why economic policies can be adopted that there are economic failures and unforeseen loss of income, but they must contend with the law itself that there is a national or economic crisis. It must be of the magnitude, and that is the magnitude we are dealing with in this uncertain range that has now been added, but we must reflect it in the same way. At times, because of this tight thumb rule that I spoke of going through earlier, perhaps it would increase something or something like it, even though it would be better to resort to certain downsurgents than to get up - to - date. But we must not let it simply prevent us from looking at just how profitable a certain investment or project is for society in the state of the economy, regardless of what the situation in the economy is - it plays into the money - making of the project that if the production pen is high, it simply costs more to go to the project that makes it less profitable, etc. We should always be playing this on precise grounds, which are exactly allowed to be done in the current financial program. It is totally ignored the cost at first, and what is the profit of government policy, so we are not even there, and if we are not there, what can we do about financial policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u337	A respectable president. Here we are still discussing financial policy for the next five years. I'm not old at what it means to discuss government financial or financial policies at all. I would like to try to focus on things. Yes, we had a financial policy that I resented over my head a year ago. I don't like what we're looking at right now. I think rather, in view of the fact that much is said about how much we've paid off on debt, how well we do today, how well we do what is common to our currency stores. We take at the same time natural to face the fall of WOW. We face a failure that costs us about 18 billion. At the same time, we too have the good news that some 110 billion dollars are foretold. The next five years, government funds from our joint land activation. I wonder what will come from e.g. This year inflation of the wealth of the state. Likely, we need to look up at the recession of codfish, as defined by the so - called tugs, despite the fact that they are all filled with cod. The sailors say that they didn't see another pair of cods on a fish that's no small work, cod, most of which are about my size, so you ask yourself, " What kind of governance is this? We can add to our money into the fund, e.g. by increasing the codfish fishing and not just looking at the tugs. What might we do by listening to people who may know better and who are fishing all over the country and in their arms with huge thirst at the same time as you think of a hairy failure? What, then, is the food, a respectable president? Yes, the cod. He only eats his food, too. Away from all of this, you have to try to think in solutions, whether it's possible to react to something different than jump up the financial agenda and make it look like there's an enormous threat. Yes, of course, we're dealing with a down cycle, that's pretty clear, and we've been here today. Where, though, are the smallest of our brothers and sisters benefited? Where is the real priority of money? What we had faced was to reduce the price of hunting. Bank taxation was reduced by 7 billion. The good news is, as far as it depends. The secretary of finance has said that this action will probably be delayed for a time. Somehow, we need to collect money to deal with the problems we face. We do it by coming, for example. to avoid being corrected by the slightest of our brothers and sisters? Who so far have been given all the burdens? What evidence is strong that they can always bend more? If we look back at the collapse, what was the result of the collapse? Who got the worst out of it outside of companies that went under and things like that? Who got their arms around financial cities and thousands of them on the street, 12,000 families, while their armored city was wrapped around financial companies and insurance companies? Is it surprising that when you are now thinking about financial policy to five years of age, there is no way anyone would expect to meet those who lean on lice? There is nothing that really needs the most, and I say: Why prioritize money, such as it really is, except that there are those who don't do enough good, not scraping enough into a government fund, which is not worth fighting for at this high General Assembly? I think they should sit at the same table and get the same chance to enjoy the good things we've been living with lately. When it comes to a serious fix of financial policy that's going to pinch a little bit of each group of subjects over the next five years in order to get back, why not do this properly? Why not get the money where they are? Why is everyone so shy about using our resources? Why can't we add more charges to the resources? What about the salmon fire? What do we carry from farms for growing salmon farming? Why in the world shouldn't we take more water from that resource? And what about our sea resources in general, around the country? Who's hooking up with her? Who builds palaces and businesses out of all their comfy ground because they've had access to our resource? Why don't we use our resources now that we're in a downturn and when we really need it? A respectable president. I'm just this simple, the housewife who's had to save through the years horsing on a dork move I've been damaged as a cripple. You've learned to save. I can't quite figure it out, but I have to say it, even when it's called a recession and to cancel certain projects and other such. I thought, for example. That it would be a practical paradox to everything that seems natural, that when there was a recession in the economy, the state would not also be able to back up the sails, for it would be more difficult for us to do so. It was known when economicism came out during the days that all the grounds for it were smiling before the writing came out. It was also known for a long time that there was going to something at WOW air, but it was hoped it would not be of what happened. It's kind of a scale wins, we're losing, wet-thinking, that we're getting it all. In that case it just did not. You wonder, for example. how huge our economy was, and up to 800 people fell onto unemployment records overnight. Even if it was a private company, you wonder: " When does the nation's interests weigh heavily that even there is reason to step in, even if only to bring credit or something? ' As far as Iclanders know, 10 billion loans from the Lands Bank have come shortly before. I don't understand. Sometimes I feel that there's a process of discrimination, and not everything is equal to everyone, both in this respect, so I don't talk about the community as a whole and how the public has been let down. What I like about it and we can watch and maybe should have been a little bit of a boost at the station, and it must be that there's a bargain in the general labour market that's walked, as we all know, better than anyone afraid to hope compared to the turmoil of society. Especially do we owe that government to bringing in what it does. Despite being in a position of government, I can't overlook it. It's just that way. That's how I'm made. The government brought in a game that led to our having these so - called biographies. It's so strange, however, that all those who are making social security money, those who are. e.g. Not even with a pension fund, get $22,000. And of the less paying of them for a month. Imagine, 22,000 bucks, and will pay everything; food, clothing, shelter - everything. A respectable president. There is no way to survive, but for these individuals, nothing was ever made to correct their progress. They will not get a single cent for an increase until January of the next year when it will still be broken in the 69th C.E. Social security legislation where they will be put in the index of consumer prices instead of enjoying general labour development on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u338	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howil for the speech. I stopped at these big questions that we should always ask ourselves, especially in the case we're discussing here, about changes to current financial policy at the top. Governments. Hv. A senator would correct me if it wasn't quite right after all, but the big question that I had. A senator put it this way: Is it possible to react to a financial agenda? That's what we're really dealing with. To be sure, a course is desirable. Why is it desirable to pursue a course that we set 14 months ago? Yes, because a financial program, also under discussion. The budget, the policy, and the budget are also on course, as the law dictates. However, the values that we should apply under the law have changed. There are smiling grounds. It's a three-way recession. We can debate whether it's not seen or not, but it's a major recession. This is what is called a handout for economists, and this is what happens. That's 40 billion plus/minus. Here we have been in a straitjacket that everyone has recognized and accepted in a report on this matter. The key question is: Is it not most important that we also deal with this with reason as we respect the beginning of our policy and stick to plans for infrastructure? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u339	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the budget board for the counter-sponsor. I'm so glad he's here and he's answering me. Yeah, you're right, aren't you? A senator, that I asked if there had been a need to leap up a course as she goes because I had wanted to see a different operation. I would have liked to see that we had tried to get funds from another source in order to meet the foretold 403/446 billion extra expenses each year for the next five years, if I correctly understood that, almost all the time, so, of course, it would have been best. But I think the ideas of how to get money is pretty down. I believe that this will be the nature of the case in accordance with what should be least involved. What I'm most afraid of is exactly what I said: Those whose feet are standing here are really going to feel it, unfortunately, because every dollar for this group of people I'm fighting for is too much, because they can't take it. That's not possible. On the other hand, there are billions of billions of billions of dollars in society that could take on the challenge of helping us right now as we are fighting out of this wave valley. That's what I would have wanted to see before it was started to adopt the financial policy, which would have been a good thing to continue with, because I don't call it a natural problem or some freak of terror, as it happens, that I understand, in order that it's normal to go up the financial policy just the way it does. I would have liked to see it differently if it had been possible. But, yes, it is. Senator, I said exactly this: "Accept the course as it lies. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u340	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's actually this politics we're dealing with, that we have a different view of the ways you can go. True, some kind of operation is possible, to form in a financial program, and to respond to this, and then in financial terms. When problems occur or when there are significant economic recessions, fast, such as we now experience, handouts, we can handle it in two ways: taxes can be raised or cut down. And then we're going to have a basic service first. Then we've cut down our expenses to build up our transportation, our education system, as we speak. A senator would like to fight here for, to improve his terms. At the same time, we would exaggerate. We do not want that. Because that's when we're going against the baseline financial policy on sustainability and stability. In this respect, I understand the conversation that has been very good today, it's a very specific link, it's accepted in a paper with a change in financial policy. There is no joy in revising and changing financial policies. It's all right, and it was a good speech by reason of it. Senator. Speaking of how we could have anticipated this and that we haven't lived in the money, we have to make a debt faster than the debt order says. We'll return the rest. The maintenance phase has been criticized, that the remainder has not been enough. However, it will enable us to stick to the original government plans to build up transportation and education systems and our transfer systems, etc. 3 fourths to use. That will then take 10 billion measures, and that is before we enter the uncertainty gap built into the policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u341	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, with all others, I rejoice over our success in paying off debts and in being a positive side of those things. I guess it's going to be a little braking right now. We are well aware that we do not have the resources to continue paying off debt while we are going to cope with anything else. There's one thing I'm aware of, and I'm never talking about here, ever. It is the funding which, with a simple adjustment, waits for us in the pension system to be able to apply it in our behalf. In payment of the pension fund, there's no local payment. There is no standard payment on taxes from all working people in the country when they pay in the pension fund. On the other hand, the standard pay is taken when we are paid from the pensions. Let us not even try to forget how many people are long dead before they are ever paid out of their pension fund and all the local payment that these individuals could have made into the roll, a common fund, falls down and stays in the pit of the pension system, which is now provided by nearly 5,000 billion dollars. Possessions. Imagine that. And I don't think that any pensioner in this country would refuse to have a local payment immediately on deposit. The funds we would have there could eliminate all the losses in society, and we could raise the basic progress of taxes and inadequacy at 220,000. We could eliminate intense poverty. Does anyone ever talk about it? No, not at all, because it seems so important to keep barging out this system so much that it has become like a monster in society and has almost everything in our own community and we've become competing with ourselves who owns this fine fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u342	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for a refreshing, productive speech, not for the first time at ease. A senator speaks properly, so he can understand and hear about long distances. This has been revealed in this discussion, and it may also be just a political reality that, in general, the government needs to recognize in its practices and approach to the government, that there are a number of categories in a position of government, and we have different priorities to form in the economy. I'm not hiding that we, on the projection, didn't carry out some great promise package, not at all. We emphasized the importance of showing the funding of every cent in the promises we would like to make in our campaign. But there was one thing that we specifically protected in the welfare system. That was the situation of the elderly and the poor, and we put our attention in particular, not only to health but also to social matters. Now we are facing this government review, and it can be severely criticized for this. We've done it here today, and I'll do it afterwards, especially since I think the government has put the scope on the blind eye despite repeated warnings, including Budget board, business council, etc. which pointed out that this was not the right way, a wise way in the middle of a fluke, not only of large expenses, but also in order to form hunting costs, to reduce taxes at the same time as we should be in favour of the down cycle we are facing. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Do not now fear the senator in the downcoming process, considering how the priorities of the government for microorganism and the elderly have been that it will be the main groups that will be affected by the government's cuts?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u343	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for answering. Yes, that's exactly what I'm afraid of, what history has taught us over the years. Those who don't have most of the proprietors who can't defend themselves, those who don't have any stakeholders in the Allied Council of the Icelanders, that's those who are usually taken in the bakery, so to speak. So I'm afraid, unfortunately, the nature of the case is the most likely to be affected by it. As I mentioned earlier, I do not see, although only June has just begun, that this particular group, the desperatest economic group in the community today, will receive a single cent in the till of a year's rest. I'm afraid the only thing that happens is that they're gonna be frozen out here, right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u344	Mr. President. It's natural to hear this, but I think there's a certain grain of truth in it. Not unless we give the government the maintenance, the financial support that it clearly needs, especially in matters related to micropigs and the elderly. And speaking of following court decisions, recent judgments: How will the government follow the judgments it has received and must be carried out? It says a little bit how we react to such judgments, but we have already learned when it comes to human rights that they are not necessarily put in the first place in the reaction of the government. What matters also in this context is how we see that now, and fortunately we will be able to discuss it either tonight or tomorrow, across a crown that is of enormous importance to us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does she see it? Is she convinced that it will be possible to apply it in view of what is presented in the financial policy we are discussing, that these matters will be put first? Then I'd like to ask, too. A member of Parliament whether it is unusual for her to think that in this discussion, the secretary of finance from the Independence Party and the head of the Commission from the forward press was very active in opposing and thanking them, but not one member of Congress has come up here from the left motion. I would have thought they would be cute and bring out the issues that may include. Yeah. paritaprevir Sæland Goland calls for things of the poor, things of the poor. But there is not one senator from the left green to explain how they will defend, through financial policy, the interests of these delicate groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u345	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't know what to say. This 2.9 billion earmark has, for example, been attached to kicking only twice in the microbubbles instead of three times, as my Excellency vice president of the Stockholm people said in the public chair today. This a cent in front of a crown is more painful than tears. When we talk about judicial matters and talk about everything, it's how these people get hurt more than tears do. I'm kind of having a hard time talking about it and giving the government access or whatever and pointing to the left green that doesn't show up here. Is that unlikely? V.E.G. One prime minister, president of the left green, did not say two years ago that poor people could no longer wait for justice. That's exactly what poor people are doing for her as a captain of the government. How long will it wait for justice, the highest. President? It's in the power of the government to try to straighten it out. No matter how optimistic a man is, trying to be smiling through this surfer we're fighting in the World Council of Speech, I haven't been able to see through the ages that there's any one will really care about the society I'm fighting for here and now. So you just say, every little step, even if it's tender, is a step in the right direction. Why is there no more work done? I can't answer that. If it were up to me, it is quite clear that the priorities and priorities of a project would be somewhat different in many areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u346	Mr. President. I'm going to continue with my review of the government's financial policy. All of this should be kept in mind that this policy is just over a year old and it can be seen that the matter was not to be surprising to the government, i.e. to reevaluate policy, because there are important sources of information, such as financial and business agencies, industrial organizations and industrial organizations, which warned that the benefit could hardly go on and therefore would be far more cautious about developing financial programs than was done on the part of the government. The government chose to ignore what it had been warned about by the best - known. Clearly, then, the government did not make enough money but chose to believe that economic growth would not really end, despite one of the longest economic growths in the history of the economy here. That's exactly what happened at the highest. Prime Minister recently interviewed, that the state fund would have a role when drawing together in the economy and that it would be a positive thing to add to the public investment in a recession, I think we can all agree on that, I came. In answer, and in the same way, government funds are kept when the economy is successful. On the top of the economy, however, government expenses were ignored. Just over a year ago, when we discussed the government's financial policy until five years ago, there was a great deal of optimism in the government home. A continuing riot, a continuing spending policy, and a government fund driven by the rest. It was their theme policy. Here we are 14 months later discussing a new financial policy where income is greatly contracted and the government funds will be fired at a angle for the next four years. So the transition takes a lot of time. But the most interesting thing about this new financial policy is that as soon as the next year, it's time for the government to be fixed, in the opinion of the same government, and not listening to the warnings from the experts a year ago. She doesn't seem to be listening to me now, either. There is evidence to suggest that the recession of tourism becomes deeper and greater than predicted. The executive director of the traveling agency has recently said that there is a much worse downturn in tourism than previously thought. This year the Bank of Economics, published at the end of the last month, suggested that the bank's economic forecasts be reduced to 0.4% of the economy's contracts. However, the analysis department of Arion Bank is a far less optimistic view of economic developments in this country than any other member of the country, including public economic institutions. In this year's estimate, the economy is expected to decrease by 1.9%. What is noteworthy about Arion's predictions is that next year there will be less economic growth than public forecasts. During thawing hours, expenses will increase in the rhythm of increasing taxes due to more economic activities. This results in more public living by taking it aside from the economy and reducing the overall demand. In this way, the situation can be turned around during recesses, as is the case today. Tax harvesters are contracting, but the expenses can be maintained. In this way a limp works against demand contractions. Mr. President. Whether financial advisers feel that they have reached the point of promoting new financial policy has not yet been established. In the meantime, the discussion I have spoken about cannot really deepen enough, but I can see that time has passed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u347	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I couldn't hear better than that. A senator would be speaking for a policy that assumes that the state's funds are involved in reducing tensions and not exaggerating mood swings. Secret 7th C.I.E.L.D. legal on public financial matters and on the basis of financial policy in Article 10. can, in effect, remove the fluctuation role when it bites. When we were discussing and handling the public financial law, I remember it was in 2015, these were the most controversial articles, i.e. The 7th financial rule. and then that narrow cover for financialism. The middle party didn't exist at the time, but I'd like to ask why. A member of the Central Party's stand for such rules by a set of statistical guidelines, both in sanctimonious management and in the same debt, and by whether such rules work against it simply at the same time. A senator spoke here in his talk earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u348	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As we know, the law on public finance is a relatively new law and went into effect on January 1, 2016, and we may have been learning into it. Then we suddenly face the fact that the government has decided to reexamine the financial policy that is naturally new in this process as well. The financial agenda provides the general goal for the development of public funds, as we know. In 10. "Gr., like a cot. A senator correctly mentioned, a review of the policy. I suggested in my speech earlier today that there is a situation, an out - of - control situation, a national crisis, or a serious economic crisis that is so fundamental to reevaluating policy. In itself, I believe that such rules are of good things. In my opinion, however, what is lacking in this is more detailed information on when to reconsider policy. Sovencing, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A financial minister stresses that he just thought it wise to reconsider our policy, and that would put us in this process. I think it'll have to be some kind of statistical information, i.e. worsening of the state funds and some percentages in terms of economics, of GDP, etc., of some proportion that needs to be available in order to be able to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u349	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A successful financial policy based on a very optimistic economy, which, of course, was designed on a certain basis, but it also stated that there are certain weaknesses. If they did not actually develop, a 14% economic growth would be carried out in the prophetic period, which, of course, was given a very optimistic warning. V.E.G. Government and what. Councilmen refused to heed that warning. Now we're what? A senator in both South American districts who has much to do with traveling. Almost all foreign tourists who come to the country are traveling through the district, and as this trade contracts, it really affects our district. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is not concerned that the economic forecast is still too optimistic, and he needs to handle it and in financial planning to assume that it would be necessary for those who become ill - treated. These are especially those who work in travel services and many companies and then the airport staff in our district. Unemployment is increasing and is the most difficult time in South Africa today, and we do not know what fall may bring. A lot. A senator does not stress that in the progress of the policy and plan, which will follow up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u350	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator precisely for describing the effects we are seeing in the public, families, and businesses, is showing us in the light of this massive down cycle, especially in the tourism industry, and is having a hard time dealing with the South Sea, that's right away. Senator. We're seeing reports at the Cheflavour Airport and this is how it's going to work really fast right now. I think it's going to be more difficult this fall and winter. Sadly, people who know well in the article are in the autumn and winter picture. The government is working for economic forecasts, national forecasts. It is under the law, and so is the current financial policy. However, I do believe that the government did not take adequate precautions, so to speak, in their bait, especially in terms of the length of economic growth. According to experts, as we know, this is the longest economic growth in the history of the economy. It is also natural to blame me for not taking into account the words of caution that were said and presented at the beginning of the policy, showing that it did not last for 14 months. We look forward to a very difficult time, I think, when it comes to the tourist service, which contributes a great deal to the nation's farm. So, yes, I agree. A senator saying that I do not believe that the government has not been sufficiently cautious in this regard and too optimistic in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u351	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for good talks, both the afternoon and the first, as he reviewed his viewpoints on the basis and then on the development of financial policy. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the body of elders on page 12. 6 in a paper with this revised financial policy. That, in fact, is what the Bible In view of the following emphasis, the proposal to reimburse financial policy is taken into consideration: The maintenance level of government funds does not add to the collapse or resolution of economic growth beyond the economic adjustments. I think that most people who have come up here just said that there's a need to consider that cutting would not be the worst and that we will continue our powerful welfare systems as soon as we want to add to building wood. Then I'll get to basic business. Watchin' ya. A senator owns this text so that we can see that there will be an incision in basics? There is nothing wrong with revising financial policy, but it is strange to review financial policy that was repeatedly warned to build up in the way the government did. My second question turns to whether or not. A senator believes that we will be looking forward to a cut-off in the core because of this policy or aimlessness, the failure of the government to face the reality that many people repeatedly warned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u352	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, I think it's safe to say so at least looked past the warnings given by more than one member of the government, the important providers of the strategy. There was tremendous optimism that there would be continued economic growth over the period that I think everyone would have agreed was rather unrealistic in the light of history. This place had been a very long economy, and as we know it, it all ends. Surge? Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that you can actually read it between the lines, yet I still feel that somehow the government is trying to avoid saying or letting it be cut. In this regard, I feel that it is important to consider in what way a government fund can enter to reduce this negative impact on the economy. That's where I have, for example. Whether it is possible for us to fail from plans for a national fund and to take advantage of the funds in the fund to enter public infrastructure, government investment, etc. to counteract the falling down cycle. Of course, any means not to be cut, especially in the welfare matters, should be sought, but the suspicion that it is moving toward it is trying to avoid mention of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u353	A respectable president. I think that's exactly the way it is, that's what they're trying to do, but they're going around it just like a cat around a hot grin. When you read it carefully again, that's how it is, and that's even true. ... becauseof the words of financial policy that I really miss so much, that's why we're in the government opposition calling for a discussion on the part of the governments. As I say, we will certainly finish this conversation just soon or maybe after two hours, I don't know, but I would have liked to hear that two years ago the current prime minister said: The financial policy of each government is a fundamental piece of work. This fundamental piece is now turning and bending on a political advantage that is extremely dangerous. It's just a basic matter of taking that approach. I would have liked to hear the highest attitude. Prime Minister because I am not sure that we would hear the same attitude from the highest level. Prime Minister on the matter of surgery and then from the highest level. Secretary of finance. Could it be that that's the reason for the absence of the left green in the discussion? These are difficult questions to answer because they are all very hairy. I'd like to have a reaction. That's what a senator's got to do with it. I'd also like to know a little, by reason of it. A senator has experience with it from within a financial committee, on payment for financial policy: How does he see the clockwork in the next few days working on financial policy? How is this going to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u354	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Perhaps only the second question and work on a financial committee. We are now naturally eager to get financial opinions. It is a fundamental part of this work, and from then on we receive natural envelopes from important sources, such as the Industrial Association and Business Council, that all warned that current policies are way too optimistic. It went on, but the government chose not to heed their comments or comments, so we have come here. The lack of interest in this discussion is very evident in the case of non-contracted members of the council, especially those of the left - green council. I'll agree with that with what's happened. Of course, a senator needs to be present for this discussion because it is a real challenge. A senator rightly mentioned the basic value of each government. This document has become unusable 14 months after its efforts. It is a very serious part of each government to face this issue and that the prime minister is not present at this discussion raises many questions and doubtless questions as to whether there is any disagreement between the minister of finance or the government classes on this matter. It's possible, like a whale. A senator mentioned, in the lake is a surgical cuts in the welfare system, which is inevitable in the eyes of a member of the board, at least Part of them, and that may explain in part why they do not trust in the discussion, just because of it. Besides, the natural Parliament should come here, e.g. Because the Southern District was mentioned as an example, worrying about what the situation will be in its own district. They don't say anything about it, like it's trivial. [[The president calls.]] It surprises me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u355	Mr. President. There are some things I would like to include in my previous talk. of the government's financial policy, up-to-date. In itself, I do not comment on financial reforms, but the lack of interest in the debates taking place here is surprising. You must assume that when the government finds itself in that position, 14 months after receiving the approved national financial policy, to have to adopt it, to revise it, a cautious approach to avoid being found for the third time, within the terms of the term, has to be introduced to financial policy. I have to admit that it beats a man who is so optimistic, even though I hope that national interest predictions will give the right impression or the day will come when people will prove true there and the government will take into account the forecast given there. But I'm afraid we're looking at a considerable risk in terms of the absence of careful approach. Then, first of all, I'm looking at the plans for national interest that there will be only one year in recession, and then the economic system will grow pretty good again as soon as the next year goes on and on. Simply there are many things in the pipes that indicate an modulating effect on the economy in the next year that I'm afraid that this could be reversed in time. In this context, I just want to review comments made about the current financial policy and describe it as a straitjacket in which the government has put itself. If I recall correctly, that term is taken from a legal financial body - it's not the right thing to remember. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur? --and will be interesting to see the reaction now that this financial policy is being discussed with a financial body. Yet, while a person assumes that a financial body has got its comment and observation during the last week, although it is being recommended today, the requirement for things to go very quickly through in the financial debates. I hope, however, that financial advice will allow itself, enough time, to give thought, comfort, and a conservative stand to the point that the basis for financial policy is, as the report says, financial policy has its baseline five; sustainableness, carefulness, stability, stability, and transparency. It's quite verbal, but you have to assume that this is the way you intend to approach it. As I say, I just want to encourage financial advice to take the time that is needed, of course, there is no reason to draw anything out on these matters, but I think we benefit more from thoughtful and well-mannered comments than anyone who's done in a few things. There are two things that I really want to come on that face. Now that there is distress in many, I suppose I am one of them, that it is time at last to examine the drop of taxes on some firm basis. As mentioned by people interested in radical taxation, it weakens the income base, which leaves oxygen in the system for companies and homes. It is somehow that there seems to be something against a decrease in taxes, whether in a home or in a company, but I would like to at least suggest that the government, with this review of financial policy on the table, approach matters in a way that will leave room for tax doctors and beyond what has been framed in budgets at previous times and in declarations, including in connection with so-called biographies contracts, and so on. The other thing that I want to impress on the board of directors, hopefully with the support of the government groups, is that when this policy is made up of reevaluation, it will be revised so that there will be room for profit - making, really being on the table and proficient, and not to be found in that position - I take as an example of good and important means of transportation. It is important to ensure that, when such a revision takes place, people do not leave financial policy behind so much that policy can become a lucrative, successful development rather than to support projects that would obviously be wise to go about without a so - called financial policy. I want to leave this here, that the majority of them - because I'm wrong. The chairman of the budget board sits here and listens to this turning point - remembering that people do not find themselves in that position, because this was the subject of a transport program. It is now good to make sure that such barriers will not occur, for it is evident that the pressure on the workers of the contractor market is reducing, and there is an abundance of lucrative projects that humans know would be wise to go to no matter what might be financed. Finally, in my speech, I would like to see that this has been mentioned regularly during the past year regularly that it is necessary to go to the work to evaluate the results and how it has been successful in implementing new laws on public finances, whether all their parts are useful or if any part of them are worthy of reimbursement, only from achieving the goals that were intended to achieve, which are excellently complete. So I'm referring to those who think that this work will be rushed, and she worked so hard to get everyone to see it. Because there is quite a lot in my discussion of the implementation of laws on public finances that suggest that there may be a number of laws and better directions from the points men may be getting the first experience, so to speak. I'd like to leave this behind, let's see if there's some progress in this review, and to evaluate what's going on well and what's wrong, and then try to fix what's going wrong, but eventually it's only right to see if there's no room for tax doctors and not to shut it down to leave oxygen in the system for companies and homes, and then that financial policy does not place too tight on public interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u356	Mr. President. Thank you. An excellent speech for a senator. Last year, I wanted to think about it a little bit. A senator made a significant point in his speech about reason and space to tax doctors at this point. I must admit, and can agree with what. A senator on the importance of this, that this is exactly the time to provide needed oxygen through taxation to the public and to the company. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that there is a bit of a special argument on the part of a secretary of finance, defined to the right in political existence, that the answer to economic flux is to bust out the basic operation of a state fund. In fact, now it is quite clear that the financial program itself is not at all wrong. It was not based on a very solid basis, but when the financial policy that it rests on fails, it is clear that we will see significant changes in it. There's an estimate for 185 billion budget gains in basic business and one 15 billion in additional investments over the next four years, if I recall correctly. I think it's a bit of a special approach to the secretary of finance, which defines itself to the right of life, to try to save the economy by expanding the state fund even further, blowing up the booth, as it were. Would it not be a much more reasonable economic policy to create a more conservative budget policy to reduce taxes here, including the bank tax that has been discussed - insurance and other taxes could be mentioned there - but more emphasis on more investments?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u357	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for the answer. I think it's just a big concern how much basic business has been spread over the past few years, and in fact, if we look at income growth and other such things, it's really too much too much. In my opinion, it would be much wiser to put an extra emphasis on government projects and rather to try to take a few steps back in terms of the management sector. Somehow, it never seems to be the right time to lower taxes. In a contraction, my income is missing. The panel is short. This level of equilibrium seems to come and go within the day, if not within an hour when the spit points out. I think that for many reasons it would be wise to increase the government investments because there is plenty of lucrative projects, but try to keep back on the business. Of course, all of us who are monitoring the discussion on budgets and so forth, know that the pursuit of increased expenses seems infinite, but it must be at that point, because we now have the taxiest nations of the OECD countries, taking into account how the pension debt and pension systems are built in the nations. We must try to direct oxygen to the homes and businesses of the country when it is hard to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u358	Thank you. The senator's answer. In my second answer, I'd like to roll up a bit - because I know why. A senator has considerable experience in working in the real economy, something that would be more experienced by members of the greater body. I know he knows how the purchases happen on the island. We're working here with economic forecasts that assume that the main focus of the economy in recent years, tourism, takes on a major blow, even well within the next year, but that other aspects of the economy are moving forward as if nothing ever happened. I cut it at the end of the day. When it comes to construction and construction work, a senator mentioned the situation of aquifers, which are often the canary, a major part of the Icelandic economy. When the construction industry begins to flourish, we feel it, both at the level of our employment, and as much as in earnings for financial wealth. Has a what? A senator believes that the construction industry is surging through this downturn as if nothing ever happened? That would probably be the first time that this happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u359	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is opposed. There is no evidence in the historical context. What gives humans a likely small hope that the construction industry holds seawater is the situation that has developed in recent years because of the imbalance in structure of animal densely populated areas and the lack of suitable housing, which could then be in the suburbs or borders of the capital area. I have to admit, I haven't had enough analysis of this. History says no, but the fear - inspiring situation, which is to the point of homemaking, could contribute to the idea that the building surface would be more than equal. If, for example, Extensive reductions in your period will have a significant impact on the need for housing, both based on changes in Airbnb and then the provision of temporary workers who are present. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u360	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u361	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I would like to ask him a few questions about the subject. I agree that we have to respect the baseline values of five on official financial laws, including stability and caution. You're right. A senator, an independent financial body, claims that the advice of experts is from the highest level. Secretary of finance, has identified the local problem that existed in the current policy we are changing that involves putting a straitjacket on ourselves, which is totally unnecessary and predictable that we did not have to do. In a review of financial plans, financial advice uses the term straitjacket ten times. It's a bit of a peculiar situation the government offers us. I agree with what. A senator that needs oxygen into the economy. In particular, he mentioned that taxes can be lowered. Also mentioned the problem. A senator that we could contribute to productive projects. I believe in the so - called Italian economics that the government has a role to play, especially in a downturn, to equalize fluctuations. I'd like to have a question. A senator as to whether he agrees that we should just take advantage of the power of the government when the demand draws together in a private market to allow life in the public demand. As a matter of fact, I'd say so. A senator's efforts to increase even the debt of the government in order to carry out certain projects? Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What tax reductions do you think? A senator making the most wise move, if he has it on rhythms this evening? I can well understand that there is more to meditation than here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u362	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, before answering. To answer my first question, whether it is acceptable to increase the debt of the State to continue public action, the answer is: Yes. That's when I'm looking forward to making lucrative investments. We are looking for a work analysis on that transport plan. In the fall, we have the Sunway, the Southland Road, the Westland Road, the Smokey Way, and other major projects that would undoubtedly be profitable, both financially and then offered a petition to reduce the number of accidents and improve traffic flows. I think, therefore, it is for many reasons very interesting to approach a case so as not to put yourself in the straitjackets until there is no way of increasing debt, whether it is in a state fund, a public partner, or with any layer of management contract with a company like Spölur, for example. Then the second question about the tax reductions. I have held countless talks in this discourse on the need to reduce insurance fees on a company and I still remain unchanged, I believe it would be wise to continue the course that has gone too slowly in terms of the reduction of the insurance bill. Then there's a very specific example, which I think is the way it is said, I have to admit that I didn't look it up, but it was told in the discussion earlier this afternoon that tourism is building a taxation of one four thousand twenty-five-seven billion, if I remember the numbers correctly, and then I think, for example, that there would be reasonable signaling out to travel services now that they would not be reimbursed in prey. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u363	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentions the transport issues, and there are many areas that require public investments, and I sometimes miss in this hall that we take deeper discussions about how public investments can in themselves return a great deal. Transporters certainly do. Therefore, if we look at a financial program that we're not discussing right now, if we compare the government's financial plan, the development of the next five years, the budget of transport is reduced by 15% in spite of a great worldwide need. I also agree that there may be a need to cut down the insurance. I've been shot at the idea of trying to reduce income taxes to small and medium-sized companies. I don't know exactly how we can do that, but I think it would certainly be worth one Mass to examine how we reach small companies, innovation companies and sceptre companies with taxes. [[The president calls.]] It's interesting, anyway, to see how we can do that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u364	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson. We're all Middle-class people in front of the bone. One of our policies in the campaign was just an opportunity to develop a special approach to companies with ten employees and fewer, a special provision for the personal discount so that there would be a special reduction to the first ten employees of each company. I am certainly open to further speculations in that regard. Of course, small enterprises are the plaguing of the Icelandic economy, and the number is more and less all at work in what is defined as a global micro-organizing company, which is small and intermediate in ours. I think for many reasons it is wise to try to reduce the burden of such societies in particular and to enjoy the opportunity to recall this campaign of the Central Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u365	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór son of Olei's Ólason for an excellent speech. I'm going to stop at the financial council first. Hv. A senator introduced the work of a financial body and the baseline values found in the public financial law. Before I ask my question, I'd like to express my opinion that financial counsel is a strength, I could say, in the setting of public finance today. There have been reviews and in many ways based on the discussion. A financial body is independent of its jobs and should be evaluated for financial and financial policies based on the values we read about in Article 6. The law and the law. A senator went by here, mentioned in an error, I believe, a wording in that context. [[Up front.]] Well, I think that's what. A senator will then have the opportunity to answer for him in response. Words come with responsibility. It is very important that we learn to work with them at baseline, and they are important when we see the evidence that we are going to reconsider the course that I intend to take in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u366	Mr. President. I am delighted and obliged to withdraw the term wording, I can't remember the exact concept I used in connection with the baseline five laws on public finance. What I was thinking about when I described it in such a way that when faced with such policies, it is tamed. This is not just the case with financial policy. It doesn't matter if there are companies in town when you can ski between your websites, and we often see that the values offered are completely offline with people's experiences. There was no ill meaning behind this, and perhaps an unthinked concept. What's happening here is self-sustaining, careful, stable, firm and transparent, and from today's discussions, it may be quite clear that some people experience that one of their baselines is shifting. I think it's something that needs to be considered if someone goes through how it's done, which I think is a job that's supposed to be done if it's not just started. I don't know. At any rate, she's been told she's made up of this child, and I think it's been the highest. A president who was the originator of those speculations. How kindly and obliged I am to retract my words! It wasn't said in a negative meaning, but I still think it's better to talk about things as they are, not like the companies with their websites who probably got some market room out of town to help out with those beautiful words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u367	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. For example, here I can put the red thread in the speech of a man. The senator did not indicate that a wording should be a negative one, so it is said. But because of him. A senator introduced a tax decline, including at the beginning of sustainable development in the government's recent losses to pay off debt, to look at self-sustainedness, and to control the growth burden, that it does not rest on the future generation. It's sustainable. Hv. A senator comes in to leave room for taxes. Of course, it is always desirable to pursue a course of action, but with this quick down cycle and a string of income of 40 billion, it is only two things to do, increase taxes, or cancel taxes, or cut down expenses. It would violate the baseline stability of the economy. [[The president calls.]] We need to understand the evidence that this way is gone. [[The president calls.]] Because we're reevaluating policy, which is only wise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u368	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u369	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. At the very beginning of my speech, I came to realize that I did not make any comments on financial reviews. I think it would be wise if such a situation arose. I have to admit, I don't remember the question. Do you remember that, boy? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson? I think you were just studying the good habits in my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u370	It was just a decrease in taxes...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u371	Right on. I am very grateful for the emphasis that has been on subsidies in the past few years. I think it's going to be in our best interest for a lot of things, but there's also room in the law that there's gonna be some minor wounds, but longer periods in addition. That's the range I'm referring to using to put oxygen into homes and companies by reducing taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u372	Mr. President. As we have here so many times today, we are sorry to react to a situation that was somewhat predictable. Sad to say, this financial policy, which would last five years, worked for over a year. It is most unfortunate, Mr. President, that we are already in our position to call on the fundamentals and financial agendas to build on. Then the law of the law comes on top of it too. I mean, if you're allowed out of the platform, maybe it's a good idea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u373	It's Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u374	It's Icelandic. Then I take it back and say: At this point, Mr. President, I was advised that the possibility that there would be a total growth of 1,3,14 years ago would not be realistic when this policy was discussed over a year ago. Now we're falling apart. In other words, the land production is coming together, and we are experiencing the greatest reversal in the economy for almost 30 years, except for the collapse. This is serious and needs to be handled in some way. I've been calling all day for how the government is going to deal with this crisis, which we're talking about, like, 40 to 46 billion dollars. Every year for five years, totally unchanged. It remains. Yes, the rest is supposed to be wiped out, but that alone is not enough to face this crisis. I'm afraid it'll be more than we're supposed to have. I would like to quote just the head of the management department, which recently discussed in the media this changed financial policy. After that, the President's permission: It Henný important that adjustments are not made in order to reduce the capacity of the State Fund to meet the needs of welfare and infrastructure. We do not believe that we should use health and welfare expenses for the balance of government management, as ASI, the National Association of Iceland. I'll agree with that. We certainly need to get up on our feet in this regard, not allowing the counselies, the right elements, to achieve some objective of government funds by cutting down health and welfare. The groups making up the government were not elected to operate on health and welfare issues, on the contrary. Another one of my election promises I haven't seen what I saw from the government class. I'd like to just keep quoting to the head of the department for ASI, Henný Hinz. After that, the President's permission: ▪ That's why it was before slowing down had to take counter measures across the economy, either raising taxes or cutting down. It is unfortunate that for the first time that this arrangement has been established in public finance, which is to be promoted to a greater sense of responsibility and firmness, [...] must immediately begin to reconsider its policy, to be reexamined, as Henný says. There is a danger that this may affect the credibility of financial policy for the future. In other places, the President's permission of Henný Hinz is quoted as follows: For example, it is proper to revise the plans for a decrease in bank tax, as well as for ASI to consider the preferred support of the state's revenues and to increase the equality of the tax system... I don't think I could put it any better. This is exactly what we in the United States have called for, both in this discussion and in one year, and every time we open our mouths to the state's affairs. We need to strengthen the government's revenues. We need to be careful that we are equal to the tax system and that we have not been able to talk about it. I know that in the minds of some politicians, taxes are some kind of stigma. They're not. Taxies are the price we pay for civilized society, said someone. That's why we're proud of the tax system. The characteristics of underdeveloped countries are often an underdeveloped tax system. That is why I and we in the United States have long called for the tax system to be both efficient and fair, to be found where the so - called broad sheets are found. It's just a little bit of a missing income fund. We have brought it up in a materialistic way, whether it is regarded as large - scale, rich, or capital owners. These are all persons who could tolerate a slight increase in tax burden at the same time that we could spare the groups that should be spared when it comes to contractions, as we are now experiencing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u375	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent talk, both past and past, and at the same time called attention to the importance of discussing the structure of the welfare system, how we are going to build a powerful economy in order to support both welfare and education systems, while at the same time strengthening the infrastructure that has been neglected too long. Of course, we need a powerful financial structure and a clear policy. Speaking of financial policy, I'd like to emphasize what I said earlier this evening and quote the words of the present prime minister, the present government member, who spoke of financial policy as a fundamental part of every government. But so far, not one member of the council of the left green has spoken and reviewed the exact financial policy, how their ideals appear in this fundamental document, the way their policy appears there. The course raises questions, when you have read it carefully, about the false methodology of the government that was warned. of financial resources, of us in the government position and others, i.e. that there was a large increase in the state spending, and at the same time there was a decrease in the income side so that fishing costs were dropped to many billions, etc. As a result, I am afraid that this wrong methodology will harm the worst. Let's talk about the elderly and talk about the poor, for it says here. that the maintenance level of public funds does not add to the collapse or resolution of economic growth beyond the adjustment of the economy. That means "wrong." The senator may be facing us sooner than later that the major business of the world is the first one under the cut-off knife, and especially the poorer ones who have not had much evidence that the government has dealt well with the last eight years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u376	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u377	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. The senator wondered why the members of the board are not on the rosary. Some have strongly answered us, that's fine. But they've said, like what? A senator points out that this is a fundamental piece of work. In this context, I recall when we were discussing the financial program last year, the 5,000 billion, the increase, and we were extremely diligent on the budget to receive reviews and visitors, and a number of comments on the financial program. After all the work at a financial committee, there was not a single change in the conduct of the council, so the work taking place here is sometimes a complete spectacle. Whether it is a financial plan or a financial plan or a financial law, the council does little or nothing with the comments we receive. It's a concern for the entire body of Congress. There's some paper here that calls basic songs, and we're not putting our mark on these songs. About the second cheeky whale. A senator on basics, I don't necessarily agree with her that the public's foundation has become too high. We may disagree there, we do not agree in all respects. I've called for further public investments, infrastructure. Similarly, financial advisers have done so. But I've been ready to talk about how I want to finance it. That's why I always get bored in the tax discussion. I'm willing to say: I want to get extra money for the poor, the elderly, and the students, but I'm also ready to take up the discussion of how I'm going to finance it. I'm not afraid the government will only swell where it applies. Of course, I want the state to be efficient and well treated with money, but I think there is a great need for public infrastructure, especially after the collapse. [[The president calls.]] That is why we need to take up a discussion about how we are going to finance it, and that is what I have been doing many times today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u378	Mr. President. Yes, most things can be said at the moment. Senator. You should point out that we did not start off with an inflamed campaign. We deliberately did so. We wanted to prove their practical funding, and I'm not saying that other classes didn't do it, anyway, on the other side of the Conspiracy. But it is clear that when groups that went down to the last minute with 100 billion election promises, such as the Independence Party, the Left Green with over 80, and the forward something a little less, it's a natural irresponsibility. That's what's going to blow us off with a financial review. I reiterate that there is nothing wrong with reevaluating financial policy, but it has to be done on the right grounds and people have to be honest with it right from the start. We at Resurrected a number of important factors, including beating the welfare city, especially in social matters and intrepid status. It's part of the basic operation we need to be careful about. But we've also said now in the down cycle, and it even came. in the case of Þorsteinn Víglundsson's son earlier, we have to consider having a firm grip on the basic operation, as soon as we begin to add injections to our investments. That's where we're supposed to use our economy. In this way we should do so and try to be concerned with others'motives, including their motives. reduction of taxes, which would focus primarily on homes, as well as on SMEs. There's something we're supposed to look at, and I'm hoping to get some sleep. A financial committee will review precisely the factors that are of utmost importance to us in order to keep our economy going despite the mismanagement of the economy that has been made during this brief 17 - month life span of one government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u379	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. When a senator criticizes the way the lntruders spoke in the wake of their last election. As I noted earlier today, there was one group with the number 100 billion in their campaign promises. Then this blessed series of national meetings, which spoke of a very drastic cutdown on public expenses. Somehow it didn't go together. This party's gonna be all over here and there. He's going to get 100 billion on public infrastructure, and he's going to cut down on government spending, so sometimes you don't realize where the Independence Party is going. I agree with what you're saying. A senator and her criticism of that sort. Regarding the public and how we stand in the building, there is one area of the public where I know we are. A senator is concerned and how we approach the educational system. Hv. A senator has often pointed out that there is much more powerful education systems, innovation, and research here, and I have a measure of concern about how we are doing so. We'll see, for example. In the financial program, there is virtually no high school budget for the next five years, despite the fact that so - called short money was meant to be maintained. If we look at the university, it is very interesting to see that the Treaty promises to approach the funds of other authorities in OECD and Northern countries. But if we take the loan out of parentheses, we'll have financial contributions to the university for the next five years, starting with 2019,2024. That is contrary to what the government groups have been saying. It is costly inactivity, as it were. We've got a lot of education to do, and I know why. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður has repeatedly pointed out in a talk and wrote that we need to do much better when it comes to the development of educational issues in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u380	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was interesting to me. A member of the council agreed on the treatment of the matter. I believe that we at the council would need more and more data to review this case because it's a big case and, as noted, the fundamental contribution of every government. It is now being revised for the first time in the history of these laws. I especially discussed it in a talk today that I believe to be the highest. A minister should present diagnostics or scenarios that help us. Councilmen to evaluate the situation and, in a more professional way, the effects on families, homes in the country, companies, etc., that say it's all individually, and then together, and important in making new policy, that we see the overall picture and what the effect will be. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because the review was discussed correctly: Is it possible, and I just wonder as a question, that this source could really be misused in the law? Here's the bottom line. Ministers that it is common sense to reconsider policy, but it is now stated in the law that it must be a national response, serious economic events, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-03-115.u381	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In itself, I do not comment that we are reviewing this financial policy. I assumed that in the light of the ill predecessors it was based on a year ago, and I just find it sad to begin with. Secretary of finance didn't listen. As I say, he doesn't have to listen to one of the prosecuting agencies, he can listen to his own independent financial advisers, he can listen to the labour market stakes, he can listen to one of the experts who warned of the exact position that we are facing. I agree with what you're saying. The senator may need to do this a little better and get better information. We have a long time, and I know that what. A senator has done so, called for further visual analyses and analyses, since, of course, there is considerable uncertainty in the interests of forecasts. We know that. The only alternative to a 11% reduction in the number of tourists is a minister who intends to assume a 14% reduction in the number of tourists, and he intends to expect a relapse of Flaminism back 2020. It's the only interpretation we're getting. Of course, there should be much more and deeper predictions. We should have predictions, predictions, and baloneys. I was at the National Bank Association for four years, and I remember that then we had a more detailed field analysis. We've talked about this, I know why. A senator sits with me on a budget committee, and we've been over and over again talking about why we don't get more detailed analysis of what happens if there's a 10% further gang drop. What happens if the oil price goes up by x percent? What happens if the inflation takes off like I'm afraid? In all of this, these numbers hang together, and I think it's very peculiar that we can't get deeper and better visualizations and anomalies. That would certainly improve the situation, especially in view of the fact that our abnormalities are what we are always dealing with. We are no less than talking about an abnormality now of the magnitude that the economic system has been no more than 30 years apart from the collapse. [[The president calls.]]
