ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u1	A respectable president. I take it quietly to call attention to a synonym that was distributed yesterday and all of us are moving the council members of the South Cathedral. The suggestions are simple: ▪ The General concluded to hide a transport and rural minister to have an independent assessment of the land should be initiated, in accordance with the transport programme for 2019-52033 and a five-year transport plan for the 2019-2023 and that it will be completed no later than 31 December 2019 sensation. - That's the end of the year. I'm not sure that when the country's crew was opened last week, it had been closed for five months and more, in the sixth month, two months longer than it was. last year. It is absolutely necessary, and long ago it is time to answer the three questions that this synonym suggests and are listed in a paper with the proposal. First of all: Is there a significant reduction in the need for water or the neighborhood that is needed to improve the land's crew? Second, what is involved in such improvements, and what is the estimated cost? Third and last: If such improvements were not possible for technical or financial reasons, for what kind of immersion action would the harbor need to be held open for the year - round? I trust it will be the world of Congress and, indeed, the highest. The President guarantees this matter of urgent action through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u2	Mr. President. This morning, the Environment and Transport Committee began a discussion on the bill to legalize the mail services recommended by the secretary of transportation during the days. The bill is a long way in which most people know, but it is the result of changes in EU mail regulations, changes that may include changes in the area of mail. to open a postmarket for competition by removing private rights in the field of mail services. More than ten reviews have been received, most positive, yet it is clear that some things need to be considered, especially if we continue to ensure the necessary mail services to the more scattered areas. What I'd like to do in particular is how the state, owner of Iceland, intends to divorce the situation when it comes to this law going into effect, but it's supposed to be next year. In recent years, Iceland has spent huge sums of money on investments in competition with private people. We need to know the origin of that wealth and whether the separation was in harmony with laws and rules. The bill we are now considering does not follow a complete analysis of Iceland's business and competitiveness and so many questions remain to be answered. These matters need to be explained before the private rights are removed and Iceland is subsequently sold, as can be assumed, otherwise there is a chance that new owners will be handed over to companies of great, unfair competition with market competitors. It should be noted that the Ministry of Economics keeps an eye on the government stocks in Iceland. The Department of Transport, the Department of Mail Services, has no access to business and no resources to interfere with Iceland's operations, which is our job. Earlier this winter, a financial committee sent a petition to the National Reexamination of the Commission in Iceland, including to answer these questions. It is important that the results of this assessment are in place before continuing with changes in mail market. We can't be the guardians of the much money spent in Iceland's business in recent years on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u3	Mr. President. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to examine an empty plane that has been in Loftur's Loftur Park Airport tests for a few weeks and will be here in the country until summer. This empty aircraft, of the type Hermes 900, is here by the European Nautilus Security Agency. The purpose is to test this dead or empty aircraft under difficult circumstances. As has been observed in interviews with the high officials of the National Guard, Iceland is responsible for huge seas and traffic around the country is increasing. I'm thinking that the manless aircraft that is currently on Egl's playground is a foretaste of what will happen in the years to come. Iceland's ocean area is huge, and such machines could be useful for monitoring and saving. In addition, there are a number of scientific and research activities related to Iceland and the marine environment around the country. In fact, the ability to fly without aircraft is up to less than two days old, so they could go a long way on the northern coast of research. In this context, I think it would be right to again mention a case that is that we Icelanders will first become members of the European Astronomy Institute of Space Science and Research and that the scientific environment within the camp and as the most complete satellite guidebook there is to be offered on the land as soon as possible. Here I am referring to factors that can play an important role in future travel, whether in air, air, or uterus. I believe it is important that in the ongoing telecommunication program of these days at the council and in the revised transport program announced to appear before the Council in the fall, this case will be taken into consideration in a specific way to become part of the European NASA Institute for NASA.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u4	A respectable president. I will never miss this task at the end of the council to talk about the work of the council. I'm asking, a respectable president: Does the council ask life to take life, so much so that it's not allowed to be discussed properly on a welfare committee? How is it that when you make a wish on a welfare committee to get a surgeon to discuss the 22 weeks on the abortion bill that the more part says no, it's been over enough? The same major things that have claimed here that the fetus cannot be rescued within 22 weeks. The fact is, 6% of fetuses can be saved less than 22 weeks. Then a request was also made for two doctors before the committee. It was refused. I'm completely incomprehensible to why people in general are so alive that they can't discuss it better. We'll talk for hours about drinking in a camp, but we're going to drive this important matter through the council without any discussion. This too is true of children who become pregnant. It says that children who become pregnant, up to 22 weeks, can have an abortion without talking to their parents. Where's the support? How to ensure this? Don't you think we should discuss this better? No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it's such a shame that we don't take this matter any better and discuss it better because we're starting on the wrong end. We should first make sure that no woman is facing an abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u5	A respectable president. I would like to spend this brief time drawing attention to the efforts now taking place in the United States. The population will be knocked all over the country, asking for their support by buying the so - called elf. I encourage all of you to support the U.S.A. Because it's certainly not enough to do at the highest level. Department of Health at the current level of health care. Despite the increase in financial resources by the General Assembly, they wanted to strengthen the United States and their work by 150 million. K. in December, despite the agreement with Iceland's Medical Insurance and they have decided that 100 million of it go to walking departments - using proben has been funded by the wizard's financial resources, the U.S.A.'s financial resources have been maintained and the quality of walking departments - despite the fact that all the funds have been turned in are not yet completed, a respectable president, paying off a single cent. I'm getting so raspy and totally biting that I'm kind of speechless over this incredible behavior. It's like Iceland's Medical Insurance is about to become a state of state. It doesn't seem to matter what's going on at the General Assembly with the legislature, with the financier and whatever else. They're just going to take it down, and they're not gonna do anything about it. So I say, "Please welcome our people from the espionage." Let's help our addicts get into therapy early. Let's help us delete the Mayo because that's what we all have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u6	A respectable president. Until then, there's an end to Congress and a traditional lunatic in the decommissioning process. For this reason, I would like to review a few statistics on the performance of the council with the awareness that many cases reveal nothing about their benefits, as the example of national rights should be shown. Since 138 C.E., an average of less than 112 governments and less than 14 members of Congress, 126 of the United States, have been approved at each assembly. Sometimes a summer council and a short council are held for other reasons. If they are not included, there are over 132 cases approved at each assembly. At this present assembly, 82 cases, 75 government cases and seven members of the council have been settled and we have approximately 50 cases left to reach the average. Most cases were taken care of at the 139th Parliament or 190 cases, in 147, only three. If taken from a brief assembly, most cases were passed at Council 141 or 123. There can be no challenge for the council to handle more than a few matters. There must always be a professional payment on a business profiting society, the more such cases, the better. Therefore, I would like to mention the 28 languages of Pirata, who are still waiting for the first discussion. So I'd like to mention a comment made by a local Union partner that appeared on a budget board yesterday, that a case presented in September has not yet reached 1. Environment, a case considered by the organization to be a national agreement, literally, a case centered on local larva. This council has been extremely weak to bring up members of Congress on the matter of Congress, which is proposed at the beginning of the council in September, has not yet reached the 1st. I suppose this council will have excellent numbers on performance, but when it comes to how many national contracts are left behind in the Senate, I don't give the current council a high grade.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u7	A respectable president. Today, a poll in the newspaper on national opinions was published in the language that is being discussed here at the council these days, the third energy package. It is not the role of politicians to pursue polls, but it is important to listen to people's voices and value the interests of the whole. These have been done by the Ministers and many members of Congress as well. Of course, the poll can read a number of things, including that 40% did not take sides and about 60% have not studied the matter. However, there was something else that specialized me in this poll; it was evidence that information has a powerful impact. As people do research, the number of positive matters increases greatly. I am not surprised or should not, but it proves that information, accurate information, is important. As a result, ministers and members of Parliament have tried to communicate information. There are results in meeting the issue and creating a questionnaire that answers a number of questions. Sadly, though, the most powerful force has been to correct a wrong move and then to promote what is involved and what is not involved. We can also look inside and ask ourselves, " Could I have done better in informing the public in times past? ' It's not always easy to get people interested in the EEA. In fact, we can also ask ourselves, " How far can I go in presenting the information of the people in the country? ' You see, it is easier and easier to get information to people, but it is also misleading and misleading messages. Governments are now competing to correct such ads, with seemingly high cost, by advertising in all kinds of media. Clearly, these misdeeds have a rich financial backland. It may be the greatest challenge of a new era, for all of us, to be able to distinguish his point from the core, to distinguish between false stories, facts, and the source of the information. Today, we face the challenge of enlightenment, for it is at least a fact that information and knowledge are important to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u8	Mr. President. April 9th. I called attention to the radio programs on the Kingdom News program that discussed violence and violent relationships and how difficult it can be for the victim of the violence to get out of and that violence will continue when it is trying to break free. Then I began to wonder what could be done to improve the situation. Although a person has learned incest in his day at the university, only about how hard he is and what the legislatator puts great obstacles in the street of people who are no longer able to live together in marriage or in established separation. This may take years, especially when there is a disagreement or that one partner is blackmailing the other, and this can be drawn over for an amazing period of time. As a result, I have put together a bill that aims to significantly shorten the time it takes to obtain legal divorce as well as that it is in the power of one of the parties in marriage to demand divorce. There are great benefits because this time will be cut short. This bill will be submitted during the coming days of this council, and it will be national protocol.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u9	Mr. President. Since the last Thursday, Generals has sailed to the Landing Islands. This is of great importance to Western eyes, to companies, to residents, and to tourists in the Western Islands. Tourists, and more people, do not agree to make a trip from the Cove because this cruise takes three hours before the open Atlantic Ocean. Each spring, when ships begin to land on the island, the city's population changes to the island and the town is full of people. During the first four days of opening last week, 6,500 people traveled on the ferry, which is 50% higher than the island's population. Mr. President. At present, there is at least a problem with the Western Islands. Three separate cases. First, it is the process of life that is well along with its new development in Poland, where it seems to be a mess. Second, it is a well - watered well in the country, but it appears that the contractor does not control the instruments needed to open the harbor quickly when a waterway allows an opportunity. There, transport authorities will have to ensure that improvements will be made so that the harbor can remain open and open faster than it was in spring. The way things are going to happen, it'll take too long. Third, it's Landing Harbor itself. Research has to be done at the docks, with the goal of finding out how the harbors and ports will be repaired so that they will not gather so much sand in and out of the harbor as they do, and they will benefit in the way that it was built. This would save both in depth and in better and safer transport. Now, we've made a proposal for Congress, such as why. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon mentioned in a speech, that he would assign a travel minister to make an independent assessment of the land island. Mr. President. Hopefully, the General will handle this urgent situation quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u10	A respectable president. Today, the council will enter a pregnancy break-off bill to the 3rd. A lot of discussion has been made on this issue ever since it was proposed to the council in the fall and in the treatment of the situation. Well, I guess. There are all opinions on this matter, and everyone should have opinions on this matter. Many find it hard to believe that pregnancy is permitted up to week 22 or when a woman is barely pregnant. In the current legislation, pregnancy breakes are allowed at these timelines, but women need the permission of specialists. These have been proposed to bring this threshold down to 12 weeks, 16, 18 and now to the latest 20. A respectable president. For a long time, I thought that we should have reached the limit of 16 or 18 weeks. But after work on the bill on the Committee that was enormous, we received a number of experts, both laymen and experts in these subjects that covered the matter well, the conclusion was that I supported these 22 weeks in which I did not find the reasons to convince me to accept the self - determination of women at 16 or 18 weeks, after which it would require a special professional evaluation and permission of specialists. Who will take the initiative to have a professional knowledge of life and the future of a woman who is better able to control it herself? After all, it is the woman who takes the consequences of her decision and is responsible for her life. The woman always has access to professionals and can consult with them. A respectable president. Each of us can have a personal view of this and apply it in our lives. But here we are stressing that the woman is responsible for her own body, makes her own decision, and is responsible for her life. We can have such opinions, keep them to ourselves, but take possession of the self - custody and rights of women over their own body. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u11	Mr. President. V.E.G. In the public talk recently, a minister of finance answered that governments are struggling to achieve the goals they have already set for themselves in climate. He further said, with President's permission: I don't think we can do much more than we've resolved for now. In fact, we are struggling to achieve the goals we have already set for ourselves. That's the highest attitude. A minister in the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, disappoints me, for we can and must do much more. Surely, that would not all be popular decisions and undoubtedly difficult decisions. The fact is, we must, and I believe that we will survive with a better world. Who might disagree with that? Mr. President. I was probably the first person to use the climate crisis as a member of the Parliament and have already declared a medical emergency to the world's climate conditions. I think there's good reason for Iceland to do the same. But it is not enough to declare an emergency. A response is also needed, as it is, in the recent decision to set timely plans and goals. To encourage less use, we need to make difficult decisions. We need to increase the equation, and we need to reduce the consumption of meat, to name just a few. As we have seen in the parts of VOLV, what have we done? which is reason to commend, the situation is serious, and together we need to stop using fossil fuels. Together, we need to change our consumption habits, and together we need to attack the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u12	A respectable president. It was interesting, a statement made by the Council of North Pole yesterday. One thing was interesting. But it is true to rejoice that the Arctic environment has been blessed with a talk of sustainability and care. But, and it caught my attention, there was nothing about the climate as such, absolutely ambitious when it came to the Minister's declaration. I'm sorry when Iceland is taking over the lead in the North Pole, and I know it's the highest. Like prime minister, a minister of foreign affairs has been using himself in this regard with regard to the climate. As we have seen, climate is one of the most important tasks of the day. And when it comes to such ambitious ambition, big nations cannot be allowed to rule. We know that this ambitious emphasis comes from the United States. The U.S. climate crisis is now under way. It affects the area that is important to us Icelanders, important to the North countries. That's why it's important for Icelanders and the highest. Prime Minister, secretary of the environment, and secretary of state are very handsome in this regard. I remember that Pompeo, the U.S. Secretary of State, came here recently. At that time, the nations were spoken of as having the strength and support of each other, and that is true. It's been so in the past in other areas, in defenses, etc. But when it comes to climate, I wondered, " Was it all a show of decoration? ' Because it is the best interests of the Icelanders to take special note of the Arctic and Arctic climate. So I'd like to encourage and sharpen the Minister of Iceland's Government not to be held there with the declaration from yesterday. We must take advantage of the changes in this declaration of our prehuman times and take more authority and more firm on climate issues than America's ambitions are. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u13	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson rowing on the same tickets today in discussions about the effectiveness of the council and the payment of national accounting. Once again, the activities of small loan companies are being discussed in the media and in society, last yesterday, and only recently the feature "Affliction " called into play. What brings me to my attention and is why I mention this at the council's operations is that Oddný G. Harðardóttir, a member of the Continental Council, gave a bill to legalize small loans in September. and joined members of all groups who planned to handle this matter. However, the bill has not been established, nor is it likely that it will be during the current assembly unless it does so. Senators would like to gather together. There is a wide agreement on the subject and in January. A team returned a travel, industrial, and innovation secretary of the work to review the work of small loan companies from their work, which are intended to map the environment of small loan companies and to compare it with the legal environment in neighboring countries. The results of the group are that the personal loans are the loans that cause the most problems among consumers. This is not surprising and matches the information that a credit agent put in his memo to the Economic and Business Committee in January 2018. There is plenty of data, and everyone should be informed of the harmful effects of such loans. Both stakeholders and organisations have expressed great concern for the rise of small loans in this country, but they are loans on loans. Various terms have been used to describe the activities of the companies and have a sharp connotation. Generals used e.g. These words: Unprecedented activity, stigma, pa·rou·siʹa, economic violence. With a bill what? paritaprevir Oddný G. A Harðardóttir daughter is recommended to get that operation involved by setting special laws on it. This will provide a clear framework and ensure that only persons can get a license that meets certain conditions and jobs on the basis of consumer loan legislation, on the annual cost ratio. It is often said that the Council is not efficient enough. In this matter, and no doubt more, I agree. [[The president calls.]] Why is it that the matter has not been handled? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u14	Mr. President. I want to establish the importance of Icelandic agriculture. Here in Iceland, sound farming is practiced, and the incidence of cattle diseases is a fraction of what is known elsewhere. In Iceland, antibiotic use is the least in Europe. We also know that agriculture is a major research site in the country. We produce wholesome food that is free of antibiotics resistant bacteria, and Iceland's speciality is that there is a low frequency of infection caused by kampylobacter, salmonella and multi-drug resistant bacteria. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to perform the same requirements for the import of food for foreign manufacturers and to be prepared for the national manufacturer, both traceability, antibiotic use and the well - being of animals. In recent years, antibiotic resistance has been one of the greatest threats to the world. She's spreading very fast. Antibacterials that we use to treat a wide range of diseases, minor and serious ones, stop working with the resulting consequences. I think it's very important that our agriculture is competitive and competitive. I would like to point out that in a environmental context, it is important where the food is made. It has been said that we need to reduce the consumption of meat. We have to look to make sure that we consume the meat, vegetables, and other products produced in our environment. This may also be our contribution to the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u15	A respectable president. Often it is complained about so - called political rights. For some reason, the term usually seems to be used for general favor toward foreigners, so it is so popular to be good to foreigners that politicians take their interests above the interests of their own voters. Would it be wish for others to consider the outcome of that teaching? In fact, defending foreign interests is not popular. On the contrary, it is very unpopular. It is true that there is political justification here, but it is that the interests of foreigners are essentially unsatisfied to the interests of non - Israelites who are morally wrong not to help a foreigner while anyone needs help in Iceland. It's moral wrong. In fact, the appeals of political justification in foreign affairs seem to be largely over the fact that people cannot say completely disgusting things about people who are blowing out of their minds without being ashamed of them. Such complaints minimize real political justification, for it is in itself true that we need to be able to reject political justification, e.g. in foreigners, but also on the big issue of our day and the future, climate change. In that case, it is strictly a matter of life's worth to challenge the political Orthodox to bring terrible news, to proclaim changes that do harm to the interests of all literally, only to prevent even worse changes later. You see, climate change is like other sacrifices, that most people are on the road just to the start. Then it turns out that people simply don't want to make the needed sacrifices, and understandably, because climate change requires unprecedented sacrifices and we need to offer them willingly. But who's going to stand here and suggest that gas prices become so high that it becomes an independent problem for every family? Who's going to suggest against beef? I make it clear that I'm not putting these things up here and now, but if we can't raise an unprecedented environmental initiative in the next decade, these ideas need to stop becoming so scandalous. Only then will politicians have the courage to say - not what everyone is thinking, but what no one wants to believe and even hear, hopefully political credibility will be more ashamed than ever. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u16	President. I come up to respond to a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson, working at the council earlier. Hv. A senator suggests that when it comes to a new pregnancy - breaking law, some quick treatment occurred at a welfare committee where no discussion was allowed, it choked in any way, or a visitor's. I feel that it is important that a health - care committee be brought up before being settled. Nine committee hearings, 60 reviews, 62 review requests, 22 members of the Committee met with the 13 committees. No one was denied, no member of the committee refused to have a guest in the meeting, taking into account the request of all members of the committee. All in attendance then approved the case of the committee for 2nd. which means that everyone agreed that the matter had been well studied. [[The president calls.]] When the guest request came up for a meeting of the welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. This was simply not supported because we thought that the matter had been discussed enough. [[The president calls.]] We had a surgeon at the Committee to see the surgeon. [[The president calls.]] It was being discussed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u17	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for taking this discussion with us today. By the end of January Also published by the Habitat for immigrants. It is the first time that the Haust Service gathers a wide range of material on the social status of immigrants. In fact, traditionally, it describes the transformation that has taken place in Icelandic society over the last few decades. Twenty-five years ago, two out of 100 foreigners were foreign citizens. This year, that ratio is less than 13 percent. The percentage has increased within one generation by seven times. These adjustments must require that we ponder over the school work that has been based from the beginning on serving a uniform class. There's some evidence that we don't care enough for these Icelanders. Particularly noteworthy is the striking difference between high school attendances that are shown by immigrants and local students. Seven out of 10 domestics in the 19th year of life are enrolled in high school while only two out of ten immigrants are in high school. This results are added to the results of a PISA survey in 2015, but the study showed that 15-year-old lays considerably worse than domestics and is worsening between studies. The 2017 Education report shows that the difference in education is approximately 2.5 school years. But when you also point out the positive, the results also indicate that students are generally comfortable at school and that they are going up to their previous research. I hope now that the data analysis from the PISA has been completed since the end of the previous year and we'll see the point position as it is today. But, unfortunately, Iceland has the worst performance in the North countries compared to the Norwegian Minister's report since last year. It is serious to see this trend, and we must ask ourselves what it is that causes and what we can do to correct it. A study published in the magazine on training and education in Iceland in 2017 shows that teachers do not feel that they are well - supported to understand and deal with the educational needs of students. I wondered, " Could teaching in English be improved as a second language be required in a teacher's study? ' Another factor is to teach English as a language other than training children in their mother tongue, and it is likely that in order to strengthen the average teacher in his job. It is simply needed that the school system manages the diversity available by Icelandic society today. There are differences between immigrants and domestic schools. School attendance is used as a measure of the education of immigrants from the Habitat, and a study of these data reveals a number of facts. The school attendance of emigrants in preschool is smaller than that of a local school student. It takes about a fifth in the second year of life, and nearly all the children in the country are enrolled in preschool at 2 years of age. The children of immigrants or of another generation of immigrants are closer to domestic children, and in the fourth year of life there is little difference between these groups. This calls for identifying the reasons in the nursery, so children are in Icelandic language, so they are better trained in Icelandic language than they are only at home. At that time, the school attendance of immigrants in high school is inferior and there is evidence that their death is much more frequent. For example, in 2017 a quarter of the 19 - year - olds attended high school compared with two thirds of children born here. There is concern about how few immigrants attend college, but about one third of the population is registered at a university in the 21st year to one sixth of the immigrants. This difference in college attendance at college and college must indicate that the opportunity for immigrants to fulfill their dreams in this country is not the same as domestic. What can be done to further the services of these groups, to improve learning results, and to reduce the fall of young people from high school? I ask the highest. Minister. According to Iceland's Habitat, there is a greater difference in pay between immigrants and domestics as their education increases. Also, immigrants are more likely to be too educated for their jobs. Since the 1990's, Sweden has offered additional studies for immigrants who have completed a school course in another country to help them obtain a job that qualifies their education. Recently, Swedish authorities began to offer resources for immigrants who are educated and experienced in articles where there is a shortage of staff in Sweden. The objective is that education and skills are estimated to be faster and more targeted and that within two years of their arrival, individuals have established their place in a workforce that is suitable for them and their skills. This route, called by President's permission, consists of training, Swedish training and training courses on the work environment of these articles, as well as the additional knowledge required in the work. These routes include a total of 14 and more on their way in cooperation with the labour market. Finally, I ask a minister: Is there good reason to consider offering a short study for university professionals who are educated in articles where there is a need for workers in Iceland to assist these immigrants in a workforce in a manner comparable to that in Sweden?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u18	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The gift of speech, Birks Bjarkey, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, for bringing up here in a talk chair to discuss academic matters and, in particular, the subject of children with a different native language in the school system. Clearly, this is one of our basic educational challenges because the position of this group is not as good as we would have chosen. As a minister, I have started a huge job to do better in this regard. We have set up a special team, led by Jóhanna Einarsdóttir, a professor of education for young children. The group will shape the overall policy in the affairs of children with non - Icelandic languages and will map the position of this group from A to O. This is the first time that such work has been performed and is absolutely necessary, since a number of children with a different mother tongue have grown much, as shown in any case. Senator. In this group are main stakeholders, and I have high hopes that this work will provide us with very good policy. Hv. A senator asks about the PISA study and that a student's reader with a different native language is considerably less than the average of the OECD countries. In answer to this work, we are considering all the factors that can support teaching at college. A plagiarization proposal to promote English is to emphasize the increased ability of teachers in Icelandic languages and their ability to teach English in a variety of ways to teach English, both as native and as another language. Schools themselves decide which courses are taught as teachers. In Iceland's High School of Education, a required course is already taught about reading and reading lessons that discuss the effect of bickering on language and reading. The ability of teachers to work with a diverse student group, including Students with a different language. Starting in the fall of this year, there will be a second - language class training program that will be held at a master degree in high school. The study is available both for prospective teachers and for effective teachers. Hope is there to meet the growing need for special training in English as a second language. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, more projects are being made to improve the services of children with a different language and as mentioned earlier, and are taking place this overall policy barrier. I'd like to mention here seven episodes. First, of course, it is the proposal for the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. It suggests that those who live in Iceland and have other mother tongue languages, children as well as adults, receive the appropriate and equivalent opportunities for Icelandic education and support according to their needs. There will also be an increasing supply of courses and study material at all levels. Of course, the ability of parents in Icelandic countries can help with further study of their children, so both their children and their parents need to be taken into account. Second, the development of rural communities on a chart or a local field set for children with a native language other than Icelandic during the first two months after arrival. The evaluation is designed to explain the background and map a academic position. The facility has been translated from Swedish and is ready for basic and high school, but it is still working to translate the assessment for pre-schoolers. This is the first time that such a standard will be placed in children with a language different from English. Third, a review will be provided in Icelandic as a second mother's subject to the primary school syllabus and a review of the primary school course for the same student group. Fourth, with regard to high school, it is emphasised on reducing the elimination, and we have identified it as one of the main objectives of a financial program. The secondary schools, of course, are working to reduce the elimination of all students, while the overall policy threshold is working to map the student's mother tongue position, which gives particular attention to this. As a result, we may be glad to triple our previous contribution to special Icelandic education for students with other language languages, and this had to be done to meet the needs of these students further. Fifth is to add statistical analyses of the elimination of students with a different native language and sixth, the budget is defined in a high school calculus designed to make it easier for schools to support students at risk of elimination. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I suppose we're going to have a very upbuilding conversation about these policies and where we can do something to improve the Icelandic education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u19	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for, as well as for the highest. Minister of Education for taking the time to discuss this important matter. I object to the speculation that within my teacher's study, teaching in English as another language would be required. In some ways, we must support the trade, and especially now, when it comes to keeping watch over the Icelandic language. You can also ask, " Do I need a standard and progressive school study program? ' I would like to ask, " Is it definitely not in mind that quality standards are introduced, that they will be available? ' How important it is that students have the opportunity to learn English! We see it in increasing numbers, I'd like to say that students speak English among themselves, including those with English as a native. I think this is a dangerous development. Now a teacher's education can be completed with emphasis on the various fields, and it is time to add an emphasis on teaching students with another language. There is much talk about investing in a teacher's education. This is especially true of teachers who teach students with a language different from English, i.e. Teach English as a different language. So college has to do their part more, and it's good to hear that there's a certain remedy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u20	Mr. President. In knowledge there is power. Knowledge gives perspective on circumstances, sound self - image, and ability to distinguish facts from myths. Education will help us to understand the condition of the people as well as the efforts to stir up anger and hatred. Good education is a key to better prospects for better - paying and more interesting jobs. But good education is also important for society, since good education is the key to the success of living with people of different backgrounds and backgrounds. However, education is not to be an assembly to bring everyone in, and good living is not to be achieved by the stranger's putting everything in place but to the stranger's own space. Education is human rights. The risk of high elimination for students with a different maternal language is obvious. Single and poorly paid jobs will become people, generations after generations, that people become trapped in the role of an alien resident who will be able to enter the community only as a servant and a labor force. It is unacceptable in itself. A lack of opportunities for whole social groups also follows rejection, bitterness, and anger, which can fester, resulting in a soil of antisocial ideologies. In knowledge there is power. There is an amazing spot in public where tens of thousands of new Icelanders live. We don't see them in the media chat show, and their novels don't see the day. Their music doesn't sound. Their voice doesn't hear. Granted, people of different nationalities have done well in many countries with mutual respect, but we have much work to do with mutual adjustments if not bad, and schools and good education play a key role.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this important subject and the highest. Minister for her speech and, in fact, what has been done in the Ministry of Education in recent years. We have received news and have had a fine review of it in the talk and see how much emphasis this series has been on the last year, as it really is needed. Of course, it is of utmost importance that the people who move to the country and want to share with us Iceland and make our lives rich get the opportunity. That's where our education system is, the largest part of our education. I like the ideas that have developed and the work that's going on at the Ministry of Education. But I would also like to mention the ones I'm going to allow me to use the word cords of the word - we've often talked about our newcomers - i.e. Icelandic children raised in part abroad and then returned to Iceland. I know an example that they children sometimes don't quite fit in, not get the help they need. That's why I think it's important that it be mentioned in that context, i.e. bilingual children and children with English language who have been raised elsewhere in their language, making all of this more difficult. It's important to watch them. Then I'm pointing it to the highest. Minister to pay particular attention to rural areas in this regard. It's the communities that run both nursery and elementary school. They are very often equipped to handle this challenge, and there are reasons why they can share their experience and knowledge with one another. Then I'd like to mention an opportunity that is involved when children from a foreign background come here. They need to have an opportunity to educate their fellow students about their mother tongue and culture. I think there may be an important part of building up the self - image of these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to mention in the context of this discussion that some years ago I was told by a foreigner who wanted to sit here, that he had an education as a carpenter but couldn't get it appreciated in Iceland because there were forces that would violate such an education. He would have to go back to studying what he was specially educated in and start at nothing. It's been a few years since I heard that story, and I don't know if it's still like this. I just want to state that if this is right, it's badness and nothing else, to rip off people the hard work they've already put in their education. I just wanted to throw it out here because we're dealing with the education of foreigners. Much emphasis has been placed on a positive Icelandic program. It is good that we want to keep in the English language. Also, it is important for foreigners to know English well enough to use it here in the community and to use it to the authorities and to all. Yet, I feel very important that we approach this subject based on how we promote education in these people, not on how we get it to speak Icelandic. There are two different goals. Of course, we want as many as possible to learn, but that is our goal. We must also think of the students' goals, learning and entering the community, and the Icelandic education only as part of that objective, but not vice versa. V.E.G. Ministers and others have mentioned other things. I just think there's a lot of importance in Icelandic education, and I'm afraid that people will approach her from the interests of keeping in Icelandic language rather than education children. In this discussion, I do not consider the main objective of the above discussion to be the main objective. Time is running fast now as it once was. It's most important, I think, in particular, children and adolescents who come here and don't necessarily speak Icelandic, and not necessarily speak English, are welcome, that they're not the rest of the size, that they're not a problem, but that our system is thinking of taking care of them and that they're welcome to society. If we just have our fingers on people's faces, telling them how they should be different, people will drift away from us, and that is against our goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u23	Mr. President. It's a good, needed discussion, and thank you very much. The adverb, the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and the highest. Minister for the word of those as well as of those members of the council who have discussed here. I would like to use my time to draw attention to the material for children who are not languages in English. There is a great lack of study material for them children. I may be a little bit involved in the same field as the one I saw. A senator who spoke before me, The Way of Hrafn Gunnarsson, but we must also consider why we are doing this, why we are talking about language over heads, about children who don't have English as language. That's what makes them stop. in a study if it is designed for a different purpose - a group that is different from that of others. All of us here know that a good study of the Bible can make a difference both for the student and for the teacher because the study is a guide for the teacher, how he should approach and educate the student. Then we will find out what we can do as lawgivers. It is important that the study material for this group, which is truly diverse, is as well prepared as any other study material, and not some product that is photographed or some kind of redundant afterwards, which, unfortunately, wants to burn often. Then it may be just about putting some message on the way it is understandable, not an inexpensive thought, as is necessary in preparing for study material, especially for our young ones. Under the top. A minister hears a Education Institute for Study Edition for High Schools, where it is defined as a task for students to enjoy the best possible education. According to the law, the Agency should provide all students with careful and varied study tools according to the main course. We might ask ourselves, " How will I fill this if I do not invite all students to the proper study material? ' How do children who are trying to get their feet in a new school, a new country, do not receive the best possible study material available? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if the study material is being prepared for children with a language other than English. [[The president calls.]] How is the priorities of a minister in making students the best equipped to enjoy the education that is, of course, legal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing this needed discussion into the council and the highest. Minister for joining us today. One thing is certain that in Iceland we are under obligation to put our arms around children at all levels of education. We're supposed to meet them exactly where they are. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out that it is not just that we underestimate the education of those who come into the country and want to live here as Icelanders, but we despise the total effort they have made in their homeland and who have received an extraordinary education. This is true of doctors, lawyers, and carpenters. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out. I have read many stories from people who have hardly had the courage to express themselves because they are so afraid of losing the low - paying job they have to accept because they face prejudice here. We're moving to other countries. We would probably like to go home and take our children there. We pursue increased education in other countries, and we expect our children to be cared for there and to be educated appropriately. A respectable president. It is in our power to make these children feel at ease, because as soon as they are here, think of the pressures - another country at school with a lot of strangers, pressure for an adult, let alone a child. I say, we can do much better, and I have full faith in the highest. A minister of education has a vision of fighting for the rights of these little children. And we can be proud that there are tens of thousands of immigrants who have kept our economy going. Without them, we would not be here today. It can be better if it's enough. Let us keep on walking ahead with a good example and show what we are in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u25	A respectable president. This important discussion involves a number of activities, but I want to focus on the university. I would especially like to call attention to this study entitled and the opportunity of immigrants in Iceland, directed by Hanna Ragnarsdóttir, professor of mass studies. It presents a number of challenges, such as language difficulties, but challenges show that a collective approach to the seminar is not merely reported on educational authorities but on other sources of government, such as. problems with rights and licenses. Then I'd like to mention college entrance conditions about Icelandic skills, which are not clear enough. It is even a well - thought - out decision for employees, e.g. whether certain teachers allow students to produce tasks in a foreign language. This is not merely to reduce the attraction of colleges but to distract and increase the time - consuming value of their education. Then we might ask ourselves, " Do university schools have a clear, clear, clear, and different ways in which I am received by foreign students? ' It is sometimes mixed together into a single plant, whether it is exchange students or students of foreign background that have often been placed in this country for a long time. There are very different needs that require different reactions. Finally, I would like to mention moving population into a teacher's study so that it could spread through the entire course of study. It is important that the future teachers are prepared for a multicultural school environment not only in speaking but also in cultural and open - minded setting and all that names express. What better way than to get international experience at a university, as our minister knows, for example. of personal experience by going to a foreign - school education school? A teacher who understands and supports his student group in all his variety is crucial to the education of students and the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u26	A respectable president. The aim of working to improve the role of immigrants in Icelandic education is a big interest in Icelandic society. That's why I want to thank you for this discussion and for everything that's been presented here. Service to immigrants in Icelandic education is a relatively new project, and most of it has been lacking in knowledge and experience on learning and teaching in Icelandic languages as a second language, how best to create good facilities for other learning and methodology for assessing previous studies and knowledge of immigrants. A new team on global policy markets for students with a different native language is therefore incredibly important, and I have high expectations for his work. There are many steps to support the proposal to promote Icelandic as an official case in Iceland, to students of both students directly involved, but also to measures such as increased public access to Icelandic information, such as dictionarys and dictionarys. Then I would like to review an important part of the education program for immigrants'affairs prior to 2016◯2019, especially for study in a mother tongue, and that basic schools should register students in a mother tongue. But there is also a special emphasis on the English - language education of the parents of schoolchildren. But first and last, a professional leadership and a full view of the education of immigrants in the Icelandic educational system are needed. The knowledge of teachers and experts has to be built up, how good and accessible the study material for children and adults, and how to provide professional support to schools and ever - increasing education centers to make real improvements. The project is not to be observed in the national and rural compartments, the labour oce and Education Centres, the educational centres of employment and different trade unions. The education of immigrants is all of us, and we are all Icelandic teachers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the advert, Birk Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for putting this matter on the agenda and the Minister for having an answer. It is a great deal of justice for immigrants and their children to be able to join in education. As the number of immigrants increases, we need to be able to meet them in a just way. I have been around foreigners who have come here to work, often around the seabed, in fishing, and at sea, and in various jobs. At that time, I often have an attitude of my own, which I keep moving around with those who are immigrants. What really matters is how they are angry about learning the language on their own. They often come here for a year or two, think about it, but then they get involved for some reason, and then they are often in trouble because they haven't initially thought they'll be Icelanders or stay here any longer. Then their language skills are less and often very poor, as well as their sense of right to pay and so forth, how they can read out of collective agreements, which have only improved but could be better. What appeared in connection with education in schools and ministers was a challenge that the minister has been having in building under the teachers'class. This is evident in the countries we compare with that where teachers and teachers are well built, people were more successful in learning, for example. Reading.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u28	Madam President. We'll discuss the role of immigrants, but their percentage in Iceland has never been higher than last year when it was 12.6% of the population and their share continues to rise. The fact is, immigrants meet barriers to education, obtain less appropriate jobs, have narrower facilities, and, in part, have a higher financial status than citizens of the land. By 2015 there were over 3,500 students of foreign origin in elementary schools, and since that time there has been a growing number. Schools often face challenges and challenges that they face. The economist points out that high school schools, high school, and college are generally lower than those of the country. Most of it's the difference in high school. At 16 years of age, the percentage of immigrants that are fewer than the population starts high school and lowers their school attendance by more than one year of age. Therefore, there is clear evidence that the elimination from high school is more common among immigrants than in the national population. This is a matter of thought and concern. How, then, does the Icelandic government react to the situation in which we live? Is the government firm and consistent? No, they haven't. Consuming the implementation plan for immigrants since 2016 has expired, has been completed to a small extent, and I understand that earmarked funds in the program are largely unused, and a multicultural facility is well-founded. In the fall of the council, the council proposed a proposal at the Council under the leadership of the council. paritaprevir Brjánsson of the Convergence of that class in the long run, but he has had no success. Education is a key to equalizing young people's positions as well as opportunities for all. Therefore, it is so important that governments work hard to improve the situation and at the same time prevent social problems that might be especially related to immigrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your important discussion. I want to open it up with the words that it's expensive not to do anything in this position. We must respond. If we are going to enjoy all the good that immigrants can make in our society, they need to be able to participate in society and be valued. I would like to take a little more extensive discussion than has been today and say that we must as governments focus on areas of growth where tourism and other such activities have grown and the percentage of immigrants is high. I'd like to first mention the Southnes, for example. We have a large town like Smokey Town where immigrants are more than 25% of their population. The basic schools have over 60 nationalities and speak over 45 languages. Such areas need to work along with them and make sure that they can cope with such challenges, so it works out well. Then there is something else that we need to keep in mind besides looking at a drop and preventing the departure of immigrants and others from high school. We need to worry about the children of immigrants who don't enter school who don't participate, not even show up and quit, and thus become part of the disfellowshipped population, but never come back. We can see that the proportion of people going to high school decreases as the percentage of immigrants rises. We really need to find out where the children are who do not go to school who do not go to college, let alone in college. We need to find them and find out how we can help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u30	A respectable president. It's not a new problem, not in Iceland, that there's a difference between foreigners and natives. On the contrary, that is rather typical. As you look closely, you will find that even what appears to be a small difference in bioavailability, e.g. If there is right or education or law enforcement or anything, this may lead to more pronounced statistical differences. There is not one problem that can be solved. You can't simply improve your education, not simply improve your Icelandic education, so something like that. When it comes to it, it is always a matter of attitude toward people and whether people, regardless of their status, status, regardless of money, are ready to let others who are different from them, speak other languages, look different, believe other things, etc. We cannot underestimate that aspect of this. Well, I don't exactly know what's at the top of it. A minister can do so, but it is more important that we also discuss it just from the way we treat one another, that we have to put up with the fact that people are different, believe what we consider to be a utter nonsense, speak some language that we don't understand, look different from ourselves, and people we know best. If such a view, called tolerance, is not present, the problem cannot be solved. There is a basic precept for improving or improving educational or Icelandic skills. It's not just about system-wide access. It's also about the people's attitude on the floor, as they say, our whole attitude. It really needs to come first. It needs to be clear that it is there and that it is a policy, the so - called common sense. Then all the other solutions, systematic, that we could do at the Generals, really can do a great deal of good, which I hope in fact, and believe we will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u31	A respectable president. I agree that education is human rights. It is our policy in expediting that children, not languages, will receive the support needed to match the criteria for learning in Icelandic schools. It is a course of restoration that we especially want to support the adjustment of immigrant children, especially at lower school. It affects future developments within the school system. We'd like to free some of the study projects, make them more competitive, and make ministers a little more important and more priorities. for the children of immigrants. We also want to have a specific schedule for those with a different language than the language of the English language. And we on the woodfront also give special attention to the teacher's equipment. This also means the education of teachers. I would particularly like to welcome the emphasis of the Minister of Education on this matter and not take on a teacher's education, which I fully support for in five years, which has been missing and lacking in certain expertise and, especially, emphasis on training. I think there are applications to focus on building specialations for the children of immigrants. More top - school experts are needed who are especially educated to help and help teach children in English who have another language in their mother tongue. You also need to talk about technology, that we use technology by opening the system. Nor can all of this be done on the grounds of the government. To support our children, we must once again use private and public agencies. Just as with patients in the health system, the students are the primary educational factors. Then all hands need to be laid down. This means, for example, the need to consult specialists outside the system, and we also need to remove, especially to promote support services, any barriers to a job market that actually prevents us from making use of services. Polish psychologists and Polish pathologists [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to see in particular what obstacles we face to provide practical support for the children of immigrants. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u32	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate my gratitude for this need for this discussion. Now that I've learned a lot about the direction of the group, I'd like to point out that I'm particularly happy to find that this is actually a transnational policy. We agree that the party needs to be handled. We agree that there must be obstacles to doing so, and I believe that we can also agree that we must make a great effort to respect human rights, to respect individual studies in other countries. We're just not sure about this, Icelanders here at home. As far as I know, we are going to pursue increased education and specialised education in other countries. Of course, we are obligated to show proper respect for people who want to come and share in our community and who have worked hard to spend as many years of their lives in the pursuit of education and trying to get ahead in the future. We should not invite these individuals to be in low - paying jobs, but we are in fact showing prejudice to those to whom we ought to be ashamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u33	Madam President. I thank all those who have participated in this discussion. I've thought it was very interesting and a lot of good things that have been set up here for the highest degree. Minister. I agree that it is important to map the position of children with a different language of English and shape the overall policy so that a similar approach can be made throughout the country. I am happy to hear that from the coming autumn onward, teaching in Icelandic language will be presented as a second language that will qualify for a master class in primary education, both for active and prospective teachers. I think it's important. It is also important that teachers, no matter where their station is, have access to a consistent guide to mother language and no less ways to increase support to students of foreign origin because of the fact that, as we have seen, the lock being the foundation of successful school. It is also unmistakably that language skills strengthen students in school so that they can be maintained. I agree that mapping and follow-up are important when it comes to meeting students and supporting them. As we have seen, it is important that students with a different language of the language of the English language receive progressive training in English and receive the appropriate service and support at all schools. To that end, it is necessary to make a better read, offer an opportunity to cultivate and maintain your own mother tongue, and improve your ministry to students and their families. I agree that it is just as important to support parents in Icelandic education that is again reflected in improved student skills. Too often you have seen and heard that students are even interpreting for their parents in parental interviews, which is totally unacceptable. Parents'status also affects children and adolescents when it comes to employment and community involvement in general. Because there's been talk of all the points I don't really know what it's like, but I feel like, like, that any high school program should be set for students with a language different from that of English in order to get to this group even better than it has been, and of course all schools should do so. We also need to improve statistical analysis in so many areas, and the group we've discussed here is very important. Clearly, though, the elimination of immigrants is higher than that of other students, so we need to act. I remind myself again and agree with what has been said here that we need to support those immigrants who are educated from abroad or from abroad and are not fully accepted here so that they can use and enjoy their services in relation to education and skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u34	A respectable president. I greatly welcome the discussion that has taken place in the Congress Hall because this subject is of great importance to all of us. I think that everyone coming here should enjoy the same instruments. We have been blessed that many have moved here and given a hand to the country, but I feel that the services we've been offering in Icelandic education are incompatible with us, i.e. We cannot accept that the elimination at the high school stage is much more in children with a native language than in Icelandic. We cannot accept that their effectiveness in international comparative tests is far less than that of children in English. And we can't live with the fact that when these kids come out of high school, they don't get the same tool at high school. I take this matter very seriously, so we have put together a very powerful team under Professor Einarsdóttir. And I say, we must have absolute goals over the next three, five, and nine years, so that these children's positions and positions of this group are changing. Everything else is unacceptable in Icelandic society. What makes me happy is seeing the entire body of Congress come together and say, "We're going to do better. We're going to do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u35	President. I just wanted to come up and thank the welfare committee for the good results in this case. Visitors were determined, and it was different to refer the case to a social and child - care minister and work to shorten the workweek in a thorough consultation with all partners of the labour market. As a result, I thank you for the work that took place on a welfare committee. I look forward to seeing my work thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u36	A respectable president. We here vote to refer this matter to the highest level of the council. Minister. Thus, it is directed to the minister to work systematically to review the labour market legislation with the aim of increasing the possibility of achieving a balance between employment and family life. I could agree with it and support this case, but I wanted to let it be noted that in the discussion of this particular subject, which was actually a bill for changing the law of a 40 - hour work week, I spoke and thought that these laws were actually out of date. I don't believe we have to have law, neither about 40 hours of workweek nor 35 hours of work week, as specified in that bill. I think it's normal to the highest. Ministers are allowed to cooperate with the labour market organisations to see how we as a community can take care of the flexibility of working hours and the shortness of the week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u37	A respectable president. I'm happy to see where this case has come from. I'd like to mention it here, since you have a few seconds to comment on the subject, that I think it's worth only considering that an eight - hour job was not found out by people who calculated the best for efficiency and production. It's only 24 divided by three, it's only 24 hours a day. People wanted to sleep for eight hours, do something about their privacy for eight hours, and work for eight hours. Well, that's not the focus. Since then, we have been through the greatest technological advances mankind has ever had. You would have thought that it would be possible to relax a little without particularly biting on the production and prosperity of society. I think it's pretty obvious. And while I think it's a very positive step, I feel that we in general should wonder if we really need to have all the world's production rather than just to have a little more time to live. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u38	Mr. President. I don't often comment on the President's conference board, but I think that's what I'm afraid I'm going to do. My hopes that a health - care committee would do a little better, and perhaps I tried to get some greater reconciliation on this delicate matter that we are considering today, unfortunately, came to nothing. However, at least two adjustments on the 3rd Environment. Which in my mind are both steps in the right direction. In addition, there are some technical adjustments made by the chairman of the welfare committee that I'm going to go through. In view of this, I feel right, and I would like to ask for it to the highest. To the president, he considered postponing a discussion on this matter today. I'm asking that the discussion be postponed for a while. The heavens and the earth will not perish, even if a few days pass before we finally settle the matter. However, it does provide at least one injection. any members of the council who may need to think about whether they intend to support the adjustment proposals or any of the adjustments they make.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u39	President. I heard it in a talk. A senator at 2nd. asked to examine the number of weeks and that this discussion be taken into the welfare committee between 2 and 3. I think it's important to be informed. A senator for nine meetings on the welfare committee for broken pregnancies. 22 came to the committee meeting on behalf of 13 members. One of the most controversial cases at the Committee of the Nine Meetings was the week's number. He was talked back and forth. There's nothing left to talk about. This led to a majority of the Committee. Those who disagreed with this conclusion came with their own opinion, as it were, and expressed their opinion and their conclusions to the 2nd. It's just the result. Well, at least not at all. A senator's objection to this conclusion does not mean that we need to procrastinate a discussion and a vote on the subject. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u40	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. This matter needs to be discussed further. The request was made for doctors to continue their discussion on a refused welfare committee. The request was made for a surgeon to reinvent, and a greater proportion of it was denied. This need to be discussed further, and it should be discussed more fully because this is the case. Now there's some adjustment proposals that need to be discussed. I don't understand this tremendous speed, driving this case through. It's not like we're leaving Congress tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u41	Mr. President. This certainly is a matter that is difficult for many to discuss. This does not change the fact that this matter has been very well discussed. I'm on the welfare committee for an audience. It's where all the classes have their own agents. The matter has been discussed in detail, as it were. The head of the committee has established. An extra find was called upon to request a senator between 2 and 3. The questions asked were considered there; requests for the arrival of guests were asked. Much of the question was thought to have been answered. These guests would have shown up. There is nothing to do with the committee or the chairman of the Committee to check, and I want to use this opportunity here and thank her for her good work, as well as for the whole committee. I know this is a tough situation. It will be settled in the manner that humans do here, with a vote at the Assembly Hall. The work done by the Committee is done well. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u42	Mr. President. This case was dismissed from the highest level. Heeder of Svandís Svavarsdóttir on November 23 last year. The matter was discussed at the Senate Hall in 1st. December 11, last year, and they discussed it in detail. A discussion in the commission began on December 12, and started in earnest at the beginning of January. The senators who describe their concerns and talk about the need for more time, that they have not been given to discuss this matter on the committee, that it has not been discussed enough, ignore the length of time on the committee, how much this has been discussed in nine meetings of the welfare committee, and how long the counsel of this legislation has been over. Let's not forget that three of us are at the highest. Health ministers have come to work on these legislations. A team was appointed, and they gave their results. From that point on, it was a bill. It's gone all the way through the council. This is the conclusion of experts. Whatever it is. Transporters of both forms suggest that present women have the current right to break out of pregnancy from 1975. [[The president calls.]] Let's not go there all the way back. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u43	Mr. President. This case is coming down to the 3rd. After a full discussion on a welfare committee with two whales. The members of the Independence Party are the party of the senator who now wishes the matter to be postponed. I must say that I am amazed by the distrust these senators receive from a member of the Independence Party. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. In any case, in the United States we have it so that we inform each other about the work being done on committees. After much work, the committee was settled. It came to 2nd. Um., the proverb file was emptied. Everyone spoke up and wanted to. The case went back to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and was working there, talking and finishing. I don't quite understand where we are right now. We just voted for a variation to be allowed to take the matter on. No one said anything about them. Why did everyone vote with it? [[The president calls.]] I don't quite understand why we should start delaying this discussion right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u44	President. I can't agree with that when they say here they're running this case through in some way. Let us not forget, as we have seen, that the last 1975 change took place, so that many have become long - suffering for further changes. This case has been a long way to go. The case passed through the government, by the administration party, was recommended in November, has been reviewed on a committee, and it was introduced into committee discussions as requested. Sometimes it's like you don't necessarily like the results of the greater part, you just have to vote on it differently than the rest of the party will do in the council hall, i.e. More of the senators. We just have to face the fact that even though we find it difficult, it is time for members of the council to comment on their views on a vote. I will support the highest. Ministers of health in this good and urgent matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u45	A respectable president. I come up here to say something. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son and direct the request to the President to make it a serious opinion to postpone a discussion on this matter, although only a few days. You wonder, " What's the hurry? This matter is not to run away from us, although it may take some days or more to give the most difficult time to make such a dramatic change, which appears to be on the law of abortion or pregnancy breakers, whether the concept used by man is. Iceland's National Institute of Moral Science has advised us to slow down in this matter. In this context, I would like to repeat the request. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son that's what we're gonna do and we'll postpone a few days of discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u46	A respectable president. I don't think it's a good idea to say that this case is being done in a hurry. I think I have witnessed that few of the cases that have been dealt with with with with so much vigilance as with this case in the welfare committee under direct direction. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. It may describe some social difficulties in some panels that they did not receive an invitation from the committee to those who express themselves here, but when members of the committee participate in this act, it is dishonest. We took the matter into account between the 2nd and 3rd. at the request of these senators, who had agreed on April 29th that the matter was fully researched and obtained for the release of the commission. We took it into consideration and simply asked: "What has changed since you agreed to be taken off the committee? The reason we didn't take visitors later was that we didn't have any answers. Because the case is as well accomplished today as it was on April 29, when representatives of the Central Class and the Gangs and the Independence Party and all classes agreed to take it out of the welfare committee. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u47	A respectable president. The 2nd. made statements here in the hall I wanted to know, that the governor claimed that no child was alive after week 22. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. People say it's incomprehensible to me that I ask for it, but I think democracy is like that. First the case was referred for 2nd. to the committee and for discussion there, I asked for this, but I was denied it. People say that I've got some indiscriminate reasons, but I thought democracy was like that. Maybe it's my mistake not to know well enough to, that when the case goes to 3. Um.. will be named after 2nd. Um... then you just can't do anything. Maybe it's democracy. I simply asked for a surgeon to be summoned, and we would discuss the matter a little better. Is it some mortal sin?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u48	Mr. President. I believe the case was very well discussed at the moment. The welfare committee and the fact that the case was handled in a unique way by its spokesman, or chief. Chairman of the Committee. We are here discussing the basic rights of women and to argue that the discussion can be discussed just as you would like, because they have, well, let's say other feelings about the matter than others, I don't feel that there's any basis for it. The committee discussed thoroughly whether we should go for 18 weeks or 22 with an exception. However, it was totally clear, as far as the committee's discussion continued, that no surface was on a different date than 22 weeks in any significant impairment of women's self - determination rights. Cut him a lot. There was no basis for taking the matter out on that basis from the Committee. [[The president calls.]] This did not change at the meeting we held after 2nd. Then visitors were not included for further discussion because this was not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u49	A respectable president. This has been very close to the fact that we have not discussed the matter well enough on the welfare committee. There's been a lot of discussions there. We've had visitors, including. Professors, two midwives professors, two birth doctors and gynecologists. We got a surgeon, we got a representative from the National Institute of Morality, the National Institute of Human Rights, the University of Iceland, a company of amateurs on Down syndrome, Iceland's Feminist Association, and Iceland's Women's Women's Women's Rights. We also received representatives from the National Association of Development. All this group handled the matter well. I'm sorry if it happened. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson has no confidence in taking sides. The case went to a committee on December 11. Those who have been interested in observing the case might well have been able to study it through members of the council we belong to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u50	Mr. President. There are many things I can now be accused of, but I'm late being accused of being afraid to take a stand on matters. Lately accused of it. I gave a talk at 2nd. this case, in which I declared a firm support to all the articles of the bill except Article 4. I was sitting by at the vote on Section 4. in the hope, in the confidence that some sort of reconciliation could be achieved. Now two members of the Parliament have made their decision to make an effort to achieve a peace that apparently did not come to the welfare committee. On the basis of that, the highest. Mr President, I've requested that the discussion be delayed for a few days. That's not all they're asking for. Heaven and earth will not perish if the bill is completed in the coming week. [[The president calls.]] Because it will. That's what's gonna happen. It's just a peaceful wish, Mr. President, and there's nothing to make less out of that wish than any other wish that's being offered here in a speech chair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u51	A respectable president. Throughout history, women have waited for their rights in so many areas. These have been dosed slowly and slowly, by men. The same is true in this discussion today. The self - determination rights of women who have waited for four decades for doses to be taken in such a reasonable amount, some but not. A respectable president. In the 21st century, it's completely unannounced that we women are being offered this offer. It's just not possible. The changes made here were discussed with 2 Peter 3: 1. Um... 18 weeks or 22 weeks. It's all over. This will not change if we postpone the discussion, nothing. It's crazy to think that there's a change in the discussion here. This matter has been discussed with a welfare committee. The technical changes presented here were observed yesterday and were able to be studied. So there's no rush here at all. 40 years is a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u52	Mr. President. I come here to say something. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the welfare committee, said that the matter is finished. We in the United States have observed the discussion through our agents, what? paritaprevir Brjánsson. We've been talking 4. Back behind and forward, and have a guest of the council to review the matter. The case is closed. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator who last spoke of our waiting long enough for justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u53	Yes, a respectable president, we women have waited long enough for justice, justice that involves deciding whether an old child of 22 weeks, incomplete in the womb, will become alive, or dead. Is that something to be proud of? I just want to point it out. It speaks of altruism and care. Even to the point of reason. Councilmen have cried out that the matter should be resolved. I'm going to agree with those who have said in the past that it will not matter how long we take care of it in the system, the goal is that it will be done, and that these halls have truly shown by great laughter and rejoicing when we decide that a 22 - week - old unborn child will be killed in the womb. I'll always say no. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u54	The president asks why. Councilmen guard their words and remain calm in the hall, and they will not tolerate such speech or conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u55	A respectable president. I realized that when I listened to it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that we understand the word of reconciliation in a different way. The column was repeatedly discussed with a welfare committee. It was taken professional positions, grammatical views, based on knowledge and superiority. The conclusion was that 22 weeks could not be mixed without opening up many other problems. 22 weeks is the result of the professional activity of the Committee. All of us agreed that this job had been a professional and well - worked job, which we showed by paying all votes by putting it out even if we were then against the conclusion. Some don't want 22 weeks. That's all right. It is not acceptable to enter a case without any new information being received and a covering of the number of weeks. It's not cool. There is an indiscriminate sale of basic rights, and there is no need for us to participate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u56	V.E.G. President. To be honest, I don't recall any other council case, but this is what I've been doing here for a council that I feel is as urgent as a public agreement. I haven't heard from any senator's speeches, either now or before, that they want to compromise women's own rights in this matter, not at all. They have made it clear, many of them, that what they want is that they want women's self - determination rights to be unambiguous. But people have been having trouble with the number of weeks, and I don't feel like going into some car shops like a bargain in that context. But I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is concerned that the president will seriously postpone the case for a while, as long as the situation is fully tried, it will be impossible to achieve a better reconciliation than is clearly clear up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u57	President. I've been determined from the beginning to speak in a calm manner. I'm going to continue to do so in spite of the ignorant depravity. paritaprevir Sæland Goland was eager to push on me and some other senators a few years ago. In this opinion over the weeks, I have this to say and have said before: The decision is made anyway. It's been cleaned up. Such measures have been carried out. It's just that it's not every woman who's been in charge, and that's why we're changing here. This has been repeated on the part of those who feel that the change was unnecessary that no woman was rejected. There's evidence that it's possible and that you need to change this. Women are responsible. Women are responsible for themselves in general, so is this. They can, and they're supposed to, and we're supposed to change this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u58	Mr. President. I'd like that wish. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son to postpone the case will be rejected by the council and the President, as members of the welfare committee have experienced the good and sound evidence and have pointed to all the discussions that have been held in the Committee. I would also like us to discuss this matter, to break the pregnancy, with respect and with respect to all the women who have had to make a decision about pregnancy. I'd like to encourage, like a whisk. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson did, so that the elected councilmen in the Hall would talk about this matter with respect because women deserve it, even though there was no more. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u59	Mr. President. As noted by more than one, the matter is finished with a welfare committee. In addition, the groups that have wanted to have been able to discuss this in their councils. This has been done and discussed by the United States Parliament. The importance of postponing the case is referred to here in order to make peace. Be at peace with what? To narrow even the rights of women away from what is now? Is that all the peace we're about to make? No, Mr. President, we don't need that. I may also have witnessed - no, not perhaps, the most tragic comments I have heard from this platform since I first participated in the General Assembly. Of course, I find it particularly tragic for all the many women who have needed and decided to break their pregnancy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u60	Mr. President. There's talk of reconciliation, of making peace in this matter. I want to keep in mind that they're not going to be at peace with them. Senators who consider pregnancy break is murder. It's not going to be okay with them why. Councilmen who want men to make a decision about her fertility. It's not going to be okay with them. Neither will it make sense to them why. Councilmen who believe that experts on the number of weekly outcomes of essential and vital services are at the same time an assessment of emotions. Councilmen with no experience of an unwanted pregnancy in their own body. It's not yours, weather forecaster here, who's in charge of this. It's one-on-one opinion of experts, and it's not going to make any sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u61	A respectable president. I don't know what you're talking about. That's what they say when I talk about how imperfect babies are treated in the womb. There's no one here, not one of them that shows up and talks about the child's right to live, when he's gonna start it, or whether he's gonna do it over his head. In fact, it has been so far away from then on. A senator has talked about the self - determination of women, that it may not even be appropriate to plan for a special week. I'm going to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir said here: Never will there ever be peace on how it really is to place this enormous responsibility on women, and preferably that it is one of the reasons why her self - determination rights are so strong. It is her own choice to make sure that the baby she walks with will be executed or not. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u62	Mr. President. I'm just sad to hear how the discussion is developing and that we've come a long way back on women's struggles, women's rights, that we're talking about how babies are being executed in the event of pregnancy violations. I can't believe we're there, that we haven't gone any further. I know, however, that more part of the United States of Congress has come to another place. With regard to this bill, the biggest issue for 22 weeks, which is actually being carried out today, is the final decision by experts. Now it is the woman's self - determination to decide whether to break up until then. Of course, those women who take the heavy step of going through pregnancy are not easy for a woman, for it is not an easy one, all the help and help in the process under the specialists and health - care professions. Medical experts recommend that we respect women's self - determination rights. We must be able to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u63	A respectable president. I have to admit, it didn't hurt me at all. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson's request for a period of time to take care of the situation. For me, it doesn't matter whether we're on 3rd. on Monday of the next week and their vote, especially if this makes those who are very hesitant of this matter, the committee's conclusions are more likely to cross the pros and cons of this matter and to accept the views available in the majority of welfare committees. A respectable president. It's simply not possible to sit under comments, as has fallen from this public talk, and we cannot invite the people to have such a conversation. It's not acceptable how people have spoken here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u64	A respectable president. I agree with these last words. It's not the nation, nor us who are present to have to be subject to this. It is very important to realize that the members of the council who now make a change over a week are saying: "We support women, but we're still going to narrow their current rights. We're going to narrow their present rights. If the senators and even those on the welfare committee are not aware of that, then something is not quite right, I must say. This cannot be our goal when we talk about women's self - determination rights and mean something by, for us to narrow the rights of the present. It just can't be like that. And once again: 40 years is a long waiting period for women to make their own decision to end pregnancy as difficult as that decision is. No woman does that lightly. Women are also fully capable of seeking the help they feel they need at such times. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u65	Mr. President. Listening to what really makes me nervous. paritaprevir Sæland Howilland comes here to discuss this matter as she allows herself to do. I was hoping that when she came here another time, she was going to apologize to those who listen here for her words, but she didn't. Well, I hope that happens then, just in later stages, because that's not how you do it. It's a lot of heat, but you can't afford to talk in that way. A senator has done so on this matter. These are serious things. These decisions are never lightly made. This matter has been here at the council for a long time, and any members of the council sitting here should have been able to study the matter in a skinless, opinions, and all manner of discussions that have taken place. But using the words that have fallen here is utterly repugnant. I'd like to ask if we could just calm down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u66	The president has not heard anything in this discussion that has convinced him that the program presented yesterday is the right thing to disappear, so he intends to stick to it. But the president agrees with that as a dog. Some members of the council have mentioned. It is proper for us to show consideration and consideration both to the subject itself and to one another. The president hopes that the discussion will now begin and ask for such terms, which would be proper for the Council, not the opposite. On the other hand, the president wants to inform us that a vote on this matter will, of course, not be until the end of the 3rd issue. and not until next week, so it won't be done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u67	President. The Board of Overseers gave detailed consideration to these new laws on pregnancy breaking before the proposal was made to complete it. Um, um... has been appointed by the committee to represent the Icelandic birth / gynecologists, Iceland's Social Management Society, the National Institute for Moralology, as well as a representative of Iceland's Institute of Development, Developmental Help, and the partner of amateurs on Down syndrome, etc. The Committee's discussion of the matter before it was completed on the 2nd. was taken into account all requests by members of the committee for visitors in the case. Suggestion of the case was adopted by all those present. If all members of the committee followed their convictions in the matter to the second. so that the committee agreed that the investigation was adequate. Those who did not agree with the majority of the committee gave special opinions where their position was presented and there is no doubt that someone did not have enough research. When the case was referred to the Committee after 2rd. he sent to the highest. 8th yrs That's the north side. A list of questions related to the review of the committee on the topic. It seems that the committee has already explored all these aspects of their original study of the matter and responded to many of them by means of adjustments. No new data have been referred to that give any reason for further investigation. The Commission has in the early stages of their coverage discussed long-term contraceptive methods and can be assumed to increase the availability of young people that contraception will reduce the rate of pregnancy breakes. Here, however, we are talking about the right woman over her own body when she is pregnant. This bill is designed to ensure a woman's self - determination right over her own body. It has been mentioned repeatedly in the discussion of this case that more than 1,000 pregnancies are being carried out each year in this country, and that is the number to be reduced. But the answer is not to limit women's availability to essential health care based on the lack of adequate contraception. They're not connected at all. Transferring a week to 18 or 20 weeks without adding access to the 22nd week includes restrictions on the current women's right to have a pregnancy break. It will. There's no denying that. This is a fact. Adding to the rights of disabled people is a violation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the current law. It is of utmost importance that we have this conversation here in this Assembly Hall on the right basis. We must agree that it is not right to legalize legal discrimination against the disabled into new laws. Clothes and discrimination against disabled persons have passed or should be. Therefore, it is important for members of Parliaments who make the weekly move to 18 or 20 weeks to make clear that their position is that they feel justified in limiting the current women's right to become pregnant, that they feel it is proper to force women to walk with and have children after the 18th or 20th weeks, totally independent of the social situation or the analyses of 20 weeks of waste. It would be fair to say that this stand would be quite clear in the debate of members of Congress, since moving week numbers down to 20 weeks does not allow women to respond to the results of 20 weeks of waste, any more than moving them for 18 weeks. President. I'm going to discuss here only the adjustment proposals that are about to arise right now. The bill for pregnancy rupture was submitted with a co-primary measure on sterilization measures, both proposed changes in the sex and pregnancy counselling legislation and abortion and sterilisation procedures. As the chairman of this case, I propose a motion of variation to establish a law in the above mentioned laws that will be the object of the above principles as well as the law. The change is technical and is submitted to ensure the compliance with the bill for sterilization procedures. Finally, I hope to such a degree that we can have these discussions on a perfunctory basis. And when it comes to moving the number of weeks down to 18 and 20 weeks, because there are now two changes in its nature, we have to tell the right and the truth about the consequences of thus accepting a change, that we tell the truth and right from that this will have the effect of limiting the current woman's right to break a pregnancy. Because other things are just dishonest. In this important matter, we owe it to the public to be honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u68	A respectable president. I was disappointed that the welfare committee was not able to see or see reasons to look to the relevant opinions of the number of weeks shown. I don't think of this as a single medical issue. I think, for example. that the welfare committee could have considered the National Institute of Moralology, which is quite thorough and careful. I'd like to also say that the comments I make with this bill as it says are only four. Er., because I agree with the bill and I think it's very good in all the basics. I don't think that's why I'm sorry about 4. that my reputation and delinquency should be in a way that makes me feel inadequate. V.E.G. A health minister himself contributed 18 weeks in his bill. If those of her party members who have now spoken in this matter, my proposal for 20 weeks feels that there are some ancient ones on my part, what could be said about the Minister's bill for 18 weeks? I'll come back to my motion right after. This is quoted by specialists and stated that the committee took a perfect account of the experts and professionals who have been presented to the committee. But a welfare committee has chosen not to do particularly much with the opinion of the National Institute of Moralology for the University of Iceland. Now I'm going to read two brief chapters of that opinion: ▪ This time limit will be reduced not only to a time when a woman can make a decision about pregnancy or not a pregnancy; it is also the moral line that settles and therefore the right to protect the fetus. Most people believe that a fetus that has the ability to live an independent life outside the mother's body is entitled to protect itself regardless of her mother's will or anyone else (unless her life or mother's health is in danger or the hope for the fetus). In such cases, the fetus (the child) is viewed as not accepting its moral value from the will of the mother or of the others who in general stand for it and thus have the right to life. Living outside the mother's body is in a report for 21 weeks and 6 days, which provides the basis for the 22 week reference line shown in the bill. The question can be asked: Is it not too close to the limits involved? In conclusion, the National Institute of Civilology then mentions the first reason, the first observation to the fact that this bill should not be carried on unchanged: In the first place, the National Institute of Moral Health, for example, consider pregnancy breakers to be dangerous until the 22nd week, as there may be viable fetuses outside the mother's body. In other words, this conclusion has not been taken into account by the Committee's peers at the University of Iceland. But let it be. What I'm trying to say is that it's not a medical solution, it's that it's far better for all, including the women, that it's as comfortable with this matter and that it works in a way that as many as possible can with that pleasure. So I don't fully understand why it has to be done in the way this is done. I've decided on my own to make a change in this bill, just 4. Gr., because I support the bill in all the basics. But the Four of us. I suggest that the change is 22 weeks for 20 weeks. This is not done in medical reasons. This is made up of a reference to the opinion expressed by the National Institute of Moralology at the University and may be called, from what has come, an inadequacy attempt to increase the number of people who can enjoy this bill instead of putting it out of fire. Women's self - determination rights do not deserve to be raised in a discussion of something quite different. I'm not questioning anything, and with all my heart, I support the key elements of the bill on the women's self - determination rights. It's just that I think it's way too far. I don't even go so far in my move to the original bill. Rather, I take this middle in the hope that this greater reconciliation can be made, and more people can enjoy the bill, and it will be the victory for the self - determination and freedom of women to be chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u69	Mr. President. I was going to come up here to ask what logic was behind a change in plans. A senator, who has done well in his speech, specifically says that this is not a medical argument but is based on the review of Iceland's National Institute of Morality. All right. He also leads to the highest bill. Minister of health as it was first submitted. I want to tell you what. However, a senator said that when the first decision was made, it was concluded that there would be a certain pregnancy breaker at week 18. Then, as in current legislation, it would be a committee that would review whether a mother's life was threatened or if the fetus was not considered viable, and then it wouldn't be a woman who walked with a dead or dying child until the end, so I can't imagine that experience. Now I ask, "Where are these situations addressed in a change form? " A senator? I can't see where they're going. So women of every life being threatened have no exception, have no way out. Women who walk with children who are not going to survive, even if they do, will not survive within the fifth month or sixth month of their pregnancy - according to this arrangement. A senator that the law force forces the woman to walk with the child. That is the result. This is why we here refer to women's present right to break out of pregnancy because it is permitted until the 22nd week now when their mother's life is put at risk during pregnancy, or when there is a great chance that the baby will not survive. What's the deal? A senator doing things for those women?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u70	A respectable president. Yes, it may be that in this question, we too should have listened to the advice of the National Institute of Moralology when it emphasizes that it is important not to rush over payment of this bill. If the matter hadn't been cleared so quickly from the Committee yesterday, it might have been possible to build on this recommendation, which may be the same as after Week 20 as it is now in week 22. Is it not so, even if the bill was to remain unchanged today, that after week 22, women would be treated with death or dying fetuses? There are the same exceptions as after Week 22. There's no difference. So I'll answer a question. A senator straight: The reason why I make these adjustments is exactly the way to make the situation this way -- I realize that a perfect deal of this sort is not possible and for which I can be religious grounds and all sorts of reasons, but I believe that as many people can enjoy it on the bill and I believe that it would have taken a step in the direction I suggest with this adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u71	Mr. President. So I repeat, this case was submitted on November 23, 2018. There was a period of about 22 weeks. This week's number of people that go so bad at the back of their chests. Congress members who insist on a longer discussion will allow more time for the matter to be discussed while fleeing to the audience as soon as the 3rd is concerned. starts - where are they? Senators? No, no, no. A senator was giving his talk on the radio. I don't think they're interested in anything else but to hear themselves speaking here in this pita, but not that the views discussed here are to be tore. Hv. A member of the council noted that this was taken way too short. The case was presented on November 23, 2018. That was discussed at the Assembly Hall on December 11. Then, too, all the publicity was tore. All these concerns have also been torn to pieces. The welfare committee. A discussion on that committee began on December 12. It is known that there is an exception in current legislation. It is known that the self - determination right should be transferred to the woman from now on, after the 16th week, by a special committee. And in general and above if a woman wishes to break her pregnancy, she needs to be approved by officials. Change of motion, like a dog. A senator proposes, narrows off women's right to pregnancy. He cannot say that he agrees with women's self - determination at the same time that he narrows their current rights. It just doesn't make sense. If current legislation assumes that pregnancy can be broken up until week 22 and adjusted accordingly. A senator assumes that week 20 is a good time. A senator would suggest that a woman's right to health care, to self - determination rights on her own body. Hv. A senator said that it was the best thing for all, including women, to have the greatest peace in this matter. I'm asking why. A senator: Is it important to him that he approves of women's rights in order for them to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u72	Hv. Senator. Hv. Senator. President wants to ask why. A senator must wait until he is presented in a talk chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u73	A respectable president. I apologize for this running up here in a speech chair. No, no, no. Senator, it's not a question of whether I'm personally satisfied with this. It's much more about being full of people, including. Councilmen who feel that for good reasons are too far gone. These reasons may not be medically necessary. They can be emotional, moral, and varied. In a speech or two. A senator is always passing by this well - founded theory center of the University of Iceland. It is as if many members of the health committee as well as other members of the council here to address the 22 weeks mentioned here check the cover and say repeatedly that all of this is on professional grounds, that it is all based on scientific data from the health system on how things should be done. I'm trying to maintain a viewpoint that this isn't a medical solution alone, it's a ethical solution, and I'm calling for a witness to the National Institute of Morality of the University of Iceland. She feels very dangerous to allow pregnancy to break up until the 22nd week of pregnancy. And I don't think it's possible to do here in a stroke to minimize the well - logical opinion of Iceland's National Institute of Morality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u74	V.E.G. President. I've come up here to draw my change of suggestions on Article 4. Back. I worked hard to make further peace with a health - care committee by getting the case turned in. It certainly was held there at a meeting yesterday, even though all those questions were met. Someone had been answered, I agree, but I did not agree with the suggestions presented there for further visitors, even if some guests were announced again. It's not cool with this case, it's obvious what's best in the committee's opinion. To say this, I'm still attached to the fact that it was better to hold onto the original proposal. Healthcare Minister about 18 weeks. I reiterate that the case was taken out of the committee. I'm not in the business of stopping a case. I'd rather have lots of opinions. Some people use the reasoning that things are not fully developed. But I think it is very important that the process is respected to take a case from a committee and let it go in 2nd. This can be put back on a committee because you collect information from 2nd. I would have wanted us to discuss the matter a little longer, one more meeting, on the welfare committee to shut down anything that might have happened to 2nd. That's how I feel this tooth wheel had worked. I support the self - determination rights of women who are discussed here, and surely it is time. I'm not against it at all. But I still believe that by taking place at week 22 it is not a matter of respecting the envelopes of Iceland, which are, in spite of all the umbrellas for a variety of other organizations. The reviews of the Development Fund are not being respected, and the Social DS report is not being respected. That's what I had in mind for 18 weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u75	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this much. I just wanted to ask the senator about the meeting between the 2nd and 3rd. On a welfare committee where the senator, who sits with me, fell under fire and sent in place of him. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson. First the senator's deputy, my ass. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, a member of the Central Party at this meeting, could not answer when it was addressed as to what it was in the 16 questions received from the senator, who was new since we all agreed to resolve the matter to the point. Um, since he couldn't reason with us why a new guest should be called, he couldn't argue why he should take more meetings in this case, there was no need to keep the case any longer on the committee. I'm not even sure that's a question. I'm right to inform the senator because there is obvious communication here today that there is not enough information between people in some categories at this point. Apparently, it hasn't reached out well enough. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir that there was nothing to help with the welfare committee to resolve the matter to the 3rd. - There was nothing to prevent visitors from calling to someone other than to the visiting client himself, okay? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, did not argue to summon these visitors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u76	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry, but I couldn't stay at the meeting myself, since I was in medication. And more often than not, my backup has replaced me, and it's not unusual. However, I realize that some questions had been answered. I was asked by my council to ask you these questions, which I then asked my assistant. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson, to accompany him to the meeting. I certainly do not agree that every question has been answered. For example, questions have to do with the women we send out - an estimated four to five a year. Who has that cost? Do we say four or five because we do not know exactly how many of them there are? It is claimed that we cannot refuse to make use of it because they do not have financial resources. But somewhere we get this number, four to five women. I reiterate here that I'd like to take one more spin, as it is called, to the welfare committee, just to get the bottom of the questions that have not come up with enough answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u77	A respectable president. The Senator gives an example of questions that have not been answered. Then the question came to a conclusion. A candidate mentioned the answer to the committee meetings before we settled the matter to the 2nd. and is a good example of what sort of wonderful things that question list was brought by the representatives of the Central Party into the committee meeting. We didn't have anything to do with it. ... froma welfare committee. We didn't have a chance to call out any more guests. There was a member of the Central Party who was found pointing to one single question in the magazine that came into the meeting, one single question in which new information was received at 2nd. After we agreed to settle the matter from the committee. The senator has not yet mentioned such cases because they are not there. This is nothing more than a defamatory discussion and really an attack on the good work that took place. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen has worked as head of the welfare committee. All stones have been pondered on this matter. And a 16 questions list of members of the Central Party to the welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. Since all the questions were asked and had been answered before we agreed to settle the matter, there is no forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u78	V.E.G. President. Even if we do not agree completely, I still want to hold firmly to the fact that I am making a serious decision in this matter. I don't have anything on the Chairman of the Committee to Set, why. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. The questions we asked have not all been answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u79	President. As we have seen many times in the discussion, this matter is sensitive and complicated, and it touches a number of strings. It has naturally been doing, making others and more demands on those who cannot experience what we here are considering as well as possible to approach matters with some sense of reason, hopefully. There's been a lot of things here and in the process. I've been a bit busy in this case giving the woman or every woman who wants to walk this course as well as she always has the best help she chooses. I took out nearly two women's accounts of a number, one was a magazine interview, the other was an article written on the Internet, where women describe their experience in abortion. The second woman describes the time when she had an abortion and did so on her own, as she said, asked no one, told no one, and the next seven years in her life, as she says, were ruined, and so she herself said. The second account contains a young woman who was in a difficult relationship, became pregnant, and then had another relationship. She was under great pressure from both a local resident and her family to have an abortion. As she eventually did, she describes how her life was affected. And she says at the end, and I think maybe it's the point, that no woman should have an abortion unless she has one appointment with a social worker before she makes her own decision. Of course, this fine woman, mentioned in the second story, made her own decision, but under the obvious pressure that seems unfashionable. I've made no secret that I support this bill in its nature, i.e. I support the self - determination of women in these matters. I've stopped and talked about it more than once and more than twice. I have also tried to read and study the reviews received from the Committee, such as the National Institute of Morality, Iceland. Then there was another comment that I greatly stopped when I read it. It's a review from an ex-con, the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Þorphurdóttir. In the beginning, she says, with the permission of a president: I'm anxious to resist the plan to eliminate the time of pregnancy until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. I believe it conflicts with the laws of human rights and inculturate views that depend on the privacy and right to life. It may be noted that if an unborn child is taken out of the womb so late, the breath of life (not so long after pregnancy) health care professionals should be obliged to protect its life and to do all they can to keep it alive. The same staff who broke their pregnancy are thus placed in an uncontrolled, moral, and emotional conflict that is not to be placed on anyone. Then these fine things take place. former senator only with the prehistoric, law No. 25/1975, and that's what she says, by permission of the President: In the existing bill, a woman is expected to have a self - determination right to end her pregnancy. The right to do so is a long time period of unchanged current pregnancy discontinuation criteria. It is important to respect the right of an individual to self - custody over his or her body as well as to make a decision about childbearing. I couldn't agree more, Mr. President. Then, with the permission of a president, this same fine woman, as a former senator, says: ▪ If the bill had based on the same time limit (16 weeks), it can be said that the term "preferred" in the bill would have been appropriate, the term use would have been meaningful and in line with what is really involved. It's not in the present image of the bill. By moving the time limit allowed for abortion from the end of the 22nd week, the term "pregnancy rupture" has been converted to a semi-injury, as this is applied to what should rightly be called embryolethality, i.e. in the period of pregnancy in which a human embryo is pregnant, with active organ function and not primary foetal stages. The self - determination rights of a person must be within some ground that can be considered a moral defender. Ideas to move the criteria to the end of week 22, with the one - sided decision of a pregnant woman without any particular medical and medical cause, when the fetus is truly a child and can even live outside the body, are not morally defending. That's what the fine ex-whisper says. A senator. Now I'm not going to say that I'm really going to follow her closely in this lawsuit. But I'd like to reiterate what I've said is a long road between what originally occurred on the outside. The health minister, in her bill, for about 18 weeks and the 22 weeks mentioned. Much has been done because nothing is really changing with the bill, these 22 weeks are already valid. Yes, it is true that abortion after week 16 or after week 12 has been done, up to week 22 and even longer, if this is the case, or if it is known that the fetus will not be able to live. Then there is another factor that has also been identified in the reviews, e.g. From the exercise help and the associate of amateurs of Down syndrome, that we need to naturally prevent the thinking and suspicion that this week's count is somehow thought to be possible, the number of children with Down syndrome can be reduced. Such discussions need to take some point at some point, even though we do not necessarily do so now. Perhaps there are reasons like these to encourage a person to ask again that the bill will be more attentive and that it will be tried to achieve as much solid solid solid solidarity as it can be. Actually, the matter is much bigger than the fact that it is being ignored and that it bears some different thought. We are simply to sit down and look for an agreement so that everyone can stand here as one man with the rights of women, with the rights of the unborn, and that we can find the balance that is so that we can all stand for it. So I still testify to the words of a former senator, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Þorphurdóttir, in her review, by permission of a president: ▪ In a nutshell: A signed form of paper is contrary to Article 4. the bill that includes the dilation of the time limit for abortion to the end of week 22. It would have been normal to hold on to the same time limit while taking in women's unprecedented self - determination right to end pregnancy. If so, it can be said that the term "weight block" can be correct and that there can be a correction as to the basis of self - determination. This fine former senator also posted an entry, which is as follows, with the permission of a president: ▪ During these days, the Allied Parliament is finishing the pregnancy crisis bill, indicating that it will be approved. In order to justify the decision to reinvent abortion from 12◯16 weeks to 22 weeks without any cause other than Mother's will, many members of the Parliament hide behind the law of self - determination. In Comb 4. The bill is assumed to have an abortion until the end of week 22 without any particular cause except for the mother's will. This is what some senators call victory for the women's freedom of choice, and they lay their necks upon other senators for not respecting women's self - determination rights, even though no disagreement has been made on the committee of self - determinations but only on the time limit. A former senator ends her case this way, with permission of the president: This is the case with dogs in the council at times when there is a serious matter - life and death in this case. This is heavier than tears In short, Mr. President, I strongly agree with the words of this fine moment. a former senator who is late to be accused of not having knowledge or proper physical ability to form an opinion on the subject. So when we who were born in this body that we were, we must naturally look for someone who knows and have tried to say something that makes sense. I reiterate what I said in the beginning. In itself, there is nothing in the bill that I can't confirm and accept with a very good mind and will of only 4. It is. Section 4. The bill can't be supported. I cannot support the abortion of a 22 - week - old fetus without any medical and/or major causes. Therefore, I say, like the fine woman whom I have given a great witness, that we had really been present to expand this matter in a way that would be respected fully by the court of decision, not by some committee of experts who made decisions for women in difficult circumstances, and in a difficult situation in their lives. Of course, I need to be assured, and now again testifying to the stories of the fine women I got mad at, that it is absolutely clear that it is not enough for women to get good counselling before they make their own decisions, but instead of being completely supportive after having had an abortion or a pregnancy break. They obviously need a lot of support to, what, get over the decision that is difficult in many cases. There may be such help, both of you before, which I feel was not enough on the health authorities. We certainly need to make things right. As we have seen many times during the discussion, no one walks this street for fun or lightweight, just like that. Therefore, we need to show respect and unlimited support for women who need to walk for some reason in this direction for as long as they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u80	A respectable president. We're here on 3rd. about very difficult pregnancy break issues. I'm gonna let myself say the same thing. Thorhldildi Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdóttir, who spoke here about perhaps desirable in such difficult cases, where people seem to have trouble making a decision, perhaps there would be others here in a Senate hall to participate in the discussion. But I trust them that the fine senators who have not yet fully made up their minds are watching the broadcast and using their time well to debate and object on this matter. I agree with what was presented. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon earlier said that perhaps we were primarily dealing with ethical solutions. A respectable president. I accept perfectly that when news of this matter first came, I was not sure that I was in favour with the case. I got calls from people who are very close to me who just yelled: "What are you doing? I readily understand the reaction that has been left out in the community, as well as that of members of the Parliament, when this issue is discussed. But this is the case, at the council Hall, we are often dealing with a very difficult situation, and we cannot always think it out just as individuals and the circumstances we know about. We are simply putting a law frame around such an amazing variety of situations and extraordinary contrasting circumstances. A respectable president. I feel that I have studied the matter very carefully and have tried to keep track of the discussion that has taken place at that point. The welfare committee. What I used as a fixed hat to decide on my stand on this matter was first of all the woman's self - determination rights but second, that it was not written in the law - it is extremely difficult to use the word disability - some form of law that allows pregnancy to be broken when it is going further in the presence of any defect of any kind. I think it's very undesirable, and that's why I think it's better to approach the matter as in the bill and as it is for the council to decide. I'd like to point out a status entry or a brief article written on her cover earlier today by Inga María Þorsteinsson, a young midwife. It's about the pregnancy crisis bill. She's also only pointing out this on the length of pregnancy, how complicated it is for us players to talk about it, because it's a little technical. When we, e.g. Let's talk about until the end of week 22 we're actually talking about 21 weeks plus six days. There has been a debate about a young girl living in Olafurvær or Ólafurvík, and it is said that she was born about that time, but according to my sources, that girl was born after the 23rd week. I'd like to kill a bit down at the end of the Inga María, where she says, Most people support women's self - determination, but not entirely. In the final analysis, the bill is about whether a woman should have the full right to her own life and body or not. As the situation is today, a professional needs permission to have an abortion after week 12 and asks who is better off to make that decision, the woman herself, or a doctor, or some committee. Many senators claim to support the entire subject of the bill, which sets question marks at the length of the pregnancy. The limits are set at the end of week 22 because a child is not considered to have a life outside of the womb at that time, as well as for women who may be pregnant up to that time today but who need a suitable license from another or a third party. I can understand the position of many who consider pregnancy to be in too gray areas, including Because of the fast - moving process of medical science. After much thought, I would not want to make a decision for anyone but myself as to whether I would let an end to pregnancy and then whether or where to end it. Therefore, a woman facing this difficult decision should have a decisive influence on these matters, and I believe that I will take the goal at Week 22 to prevent women from administering abortion to other countries. Only in this way can we guarantee all women of the country equal service regardless of their circumstances. There I was referring to the account of the money transfer from this powerful young midwife. I've said this before in my talk that I feel that we should listen to experts in these topics. I simply don't think we can be experts in the life and situation of anyone who may ever have to request a pregnancy break. I also think it is very important that in this discussion that we are actually dealing with total perimeter events. It's like it says in the bill of the 4th. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It is permitted to interrupt the pregnancy of a woman, on her request, until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. Pregnancy breakes should always be performed as soon as possible and preferably before the end of week 12 of pregnancy. These are just the first lines of this article, but then there's more, and I'm not going to read it. In fact, according to information I have obtained, a total of 3.5% of pregnancy break-offs were performed on 13,◯16. week, 1% after week 16. The talk that took place at the conclusion of Presidential conference is that I do not know the right thing when discussing ending a baby's life in the womb or something like that. I think it's so important that we keep in mind that we're here dealing with total peripheral anomalies and, to a large extent, the individuals who may most need our protection and help. We're talking about women who may be in a very difficult social situation. They may be victims of the rape. They may be very young, and they may also be raped and young. It may be drugs. This may be domestic violence or may be just human victims. Then I wondered, " Do we want to what? ' Congress officials cannot meet that party? And do we really believe that we are doing something good or saving someone by saying no to a pregnancy break in such situations? The 3rd. There's a change in motion from what's happened. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon of the fact that week 22 is week 20 I can totally understand the adjustment proposal, and I must admit that when the case first came up, I wonder about the possibilities. However, after considering the situation and the situation that exists today - i.e. that pregnancy break is permitted until the end of week 22 in specific circumstances - I don't see that we are moving better if we were to keep 20 weeks in the bill. I repeat again and again what I have said in discourses on this matter that I understand that people find it difficult to do so. But I feel that it is important for us senators to take away from what we know, whether we would ever seek a pregnancy break, accept the fact that our mate does, children, or others around us. We're just not talking about it. We are putting a frame around all kinds of situations that may arise in society. There is no evidence to suggest that pregnancy breakes will increase. There is no evidence that women would postpone pregnancy as a result of such a change. Statistics simply do not show this to us. There is no doubt in my mind that a woman who has reached the world's world that has reached the end of 2,222 weeks and is considering pregnancy rupture is completely aware of the embryo's position, fully aware of that. That's why I think it must be a very difficult decision. I don't trust myself to make such a decision for anyone else. I don't trust myself to write into the law what kind of parole should be in that case. I hear that some people have just talked about whether a woman doesn't really need help making that decision. By doing so, we are also saying that someone else should make that decision. Should we write it into the law that there are doctors, social workers, as is today? Yet, in such guidelines, we would always have to determine what is to be authorized. We could never, I think, cancel that stuff to experts in town without having any instructions on what could possibly allow that. All of this, I can't see that we're taking a good step any other way than to accept the bill as it's before the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u81	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of health as well as expected. The members of the welfare committee for their contribution to the change now being made on this old law section as a result, should be approved by the bill, the law on pregnancy break. I would like to begin by briefly reading from the letter of Sigurlaug Benediktsdóttir, an obstetric gynecologist who has worked at Land Hospital and Sweden for the past 15 years. She's an expert. A letter is written to you by the Sigurlaug Benediktsdóttir. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, which had then gone a long way in the media and a talk, as we do today, against the bill we are considering. The Sigurlaug of Benediktsdóttir's daughter has recommended professionalism, and fellow feeling has tried to meet all of her clients with the different problems of pregnancy and birth. It all seems that the most complicated process of pregnancy and birth is that the mother and child get through. If, for the most part, she is doing well for her mother and child, but at times she is not in control, and that's how life is. In life we also differ, even as many of us are, and Benediktsdóttir, her professional eye, points to a small group of women who have no word in public discussion. There are women who check the Women's Department after 16 weeks of pregnancy and request to have an abortion or pregnancy break for social reasons because, as the law is now, the pregnancy break-in is not taken because of social circumstances only for 16 weeks of pregnancy. She makes an example of her own experience. I believe it is made up of a book from the General's symposium that it is important that we have its point of view. That's why I want to cover the stories she recorded. Why? Because there's a woman with experience. This is a professional, she's an expert. She does not talk about her feelings or her heart issues or her friend or family members or her own experience. She speaks as a professional, a woman with experience in all kinds of women in all kinds of situations, pregnant women who turn to her because she is an expert. She's an obstetrician. She's a gynecologist who obviously loves her job. She describes a 30 - year - old woman, a mother of two children with a long history of disorder, alcohol and drug abuse. She describes a woman whose two sons she has lost custody of some years ago because of neglect. She speaks of the woman's combined consumption throughout her pregnancy and her absence. This woman has no idea when she had her last period, but she did a pregnancy test yesterday and found out that she was pregnant. An ultrasound examination revealed that the woman is 18 weeks old. What is her future? What is the future of this child? Who should care for this homeless woman for the remainder of her pregnancy, who has no plans and no desire to quit drug abuse? Under what circumstances has this fetus developed during the first and most delicate weeks of hard eating by the mother? Another example taken by Sigurlaug, the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, is from a 13 - year - old girl who is accompanied by his 29 - year - old mother, who is unique with three children and who works as a teacher and has just taken a steady job. The mother had observed a changed interest song with the girl and repeatedly asked her if she had gone to bed with her, but the girl always refused. The mother insisted on making a positive pregnancy test yesterday, and she found that the girl is 17 weeks away. The girl's in middle school. She just got into junior high. The mother can't get any birthworm. There is no such warrant. Moreover, the mother cannot take a long time off from work she was starting at; she has no right to do so. The mother barely ends up with her three children, including this young girl, who is 17 weeks old. She doesn't have a hand. The third example taken by Benediktsdóttir is from a 28 - year - old foreign woman who comes to the Women's Department social worker and wishes for a pregnancy break. This woman has been living with a violent man for the past three years. He has subjected her to gross violence, spiritual, sexual, physical. She's bruised and blue limbs, and she's gone and hasn't been to her house yet to wish for a break in her pregnancy until now. She has no record in Iceland, has lived in a very social isolated country, and the violent man is not at all allowed to know about her pregnancy or that she is in the Women's Department. She knows that if she gives birth to this child, she will be connected to this violent man for all time, likely the child will also have to endure his beatings. She can't think of another way out of it but to break her pregnancy and try to get her way out. The woman's 20 weeks gone by. What is the right of this child not to have to be subjected to terrible violence? These are the examples that Benediktsdóttir, the birth - and - gynecologist, took from her experience of working in this trade. Yes, Mr. President. It's the women we need to think about. Walking with an embryo for 20 weeks is all the same a delightful and joyful experience. There are exceptions we must take into consideration. In that case, we have to listen to the professionals, professionals who have real people in front of them, professionals who don't base their story on what-o-me-people feel, but real people, real situations. I trust Benediktsdóttir's eyes with my great-aunt Benedict as a professional professional. I can say here, having been a lawyer in the emergency room for the victims of sexual abuse for a few years, working with women who have been in the Women's Institute, working with women of foreign origin who have had to flee from a violent relationship, that I know all the stories made by Sigurlaug, since, of course, the doctor is not referring to the case logs but to the occurrences to which there is no identity. I know all the stories I've been doing as a lawyer. I trust Benediktsdóttir's eyes, as a professional, to know more about it than we here, who have a variety of backgrounds, in what circumstances women may be in. I also trust women to know for themselves what is best in their circumstances. Women do not joke about breaking a pregnancy, but this is their right and must respect their clear status, the clear right that women have. Over 90% of women who want to break up pregnancy do so by week 12. This is a fact. Knowing this, it is also possible in Canada where no restricted legislation on pregnancy break is valid. In Canada, experience shows us, but Canada is a very similar community to this country, that despite the extensive data resulting from pregnancy discontinuation, more than 90% of all pregnancy breakes are still performed by week 12 and only 0.3% after the end of week 20. Here, I've just been over the social thing. I don't have yet to review that point where there are cases of major health abnormalities. What's the child's right there? What is the right of the mother not to risk her life during the last week? Who are we going to make that decision? I repeat, we have numbers in front of us. If this is about weeks, more than 90% will be broken by week 12. We're talking about the anomalies. Why are we determined to make a decision regarding the abnormalities in which there are serious problems? I allow myself to assert that no woman plays with or continues pregnancy with full awareness for 22 weeks without thinking about it. These are just the other cases in which something comes up at the end or like the examples taken by Sigurjón Benediktsdóttir, who is unaware of it and who has no place to have the baby, and nothing at all knows about the possible development in the womb because of its consumption. I feel that we must take the discussion out of thinking about how our healthy children are and our healthy pregnancy and our children are. We must start to respect those who have gone through very difficult situations and are in such a situation. These are the individuals we should be talking about, not the happy pregnancies we allow ourselves to talk about here, all our children and grandchildren. That's not what we're talking about. We're discussing the other things that are incredibly complex. Mr. President. I hope we can finish this discussion without excitement in the future, because they certainly don't need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for her speech. For the second time in this discussion, this open letter is being referred to by a fine obstetrician of the Land Hospital and in Sweden and whatever, the Lord's Sigurlaug of Benediktsdóttir. In fact, it's going a long way before we have a mental evaluation. In fact, in that case of violence and beatings and other factors, it is even stated that the child will probably also have to endure his own beatings and such things. Is that acceptable? I just want to talk about it when they're taking out these awful perimeter events, really difficult perimeter situations. A senator is referred to, whether the 10th paragraph. Current Track No. 25/1975, although this is a medical assessment, is not covered by health experts when they assist women in these circumstances to look for these suggestions. So I'd love it if anything. A senator who is a lawyer wanted to lead me to the truth about this article if I had to be completely deluded. So, with the gimp talk, it wants to be. A senator tells me what to call it when a 22 - week - old child's right to live is no longer respected as this new law assumes? What is the term?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is very fond of her counter-reguage. I was asked if I was 10. Current legislation from 1975 did not include the cases attributed to the social status of women of various sizes and types in various ages. Whether she covered these cases: the 13 - year - old girl, the foreign - born woman who has been trapped in her home because of violence, or the addict who realized that she had passed less than 20 weeks and had no idea what she had been doing in the past 20 weeks or what she had been eating. No, Mr. President. 10th par. Indeed, none of such cases are involved. 10th par. only when there are compelling medical reasons for this and the life and health of the woman are put in such a much greater risk with prolonged pregnancy and parturition. It does not address social situations. She doesn't. So it's quickly sworn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vólvóða Helgadóttir for the answer. I'm taking this article from a different perspective. At least I have a very different understanding of how health care professionals work. I have, for example. heard of a woman who had to be locked up because she was so weak that she was not supposed to be alone when she walked with her child because she could possibly be herself and the child's harm. In this case, 2 mg. 10. g., says abortion, taken into account even after the 16th week of pregnancy and discussed - this is exactly what is being said, in good health. Who should evaluate spiritual things? Now, if we feel really bad, I'd like to mean that anything that turns out that our ills must be listed under our health. At least I'm there. I believe that if we feel spiritually bad, we will be in a very bad place, that we can hardly trust to look to the next day. I'd like to say that our health systems have met these peripheral events. I haven't seen one single registration, one recorded event in the last two years, the governor's office or any other place where I've been looking for information, where it's been done. I haven't seen it, and I would love it if it happened. A senator could show me something other than what might have been, possibly, and is only here in the form of an expression. It might be a little more tricky, and you might look at things differently and from another point of view if you had something in your hand, which in this case, compared with those questions and parables, is just not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u85	Mr. President. I referred to my language so that I recognized the parables established by the faithful physician. This example is based on her experience. It is based on real examples, but the nature of the case cannot afford to write an article with real examples because it is breaking down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u86	Official data.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u87	- Official data on people? [[Up front.]] Of course, she can't publish official data on the personal experiences of individuals that come in front of her, no more... I'm sorry, President, have I got the word, or...? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u88	Wait a minute. Councilmen not to interrupt and allow the speaker to finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u89	Thank you. Nor can I, who once operates women in a very difficult situation, bring in confirmed stories, real examples, because the code of law does not allow it. Then I'm breaking up. Hv. A senator can determine whether or not she believes my story. It is now that child - welfare laws allow a mother walking with a child to be locked away because she could potentially harm an unborn child. Child protection laws allow that. There's nothing in this law to allow that. This law, this law, this law, 10. g., does not address such a social problem, and it is not possible in utero to investigate any developmental impairment in an unborn woman who has been severely abused for weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I'd like to ask her, because now we've heard a lot of numbers, 16, 18, 20, 22 weeks: The argument that has come out here, they don't apply too. A senator has said? She used Canada as an example where there are no restrictions. Is it acceptable for abortion to the last day? The real evidence for the individual cases, doesn't it say after week 22? Or do they stop there? Then I'd also like to know about disability or if there's something wrong with the fetus. The doctor informs a woman that something is wrong, determines exactly what is wrong, or just assumes that something is wrong with the fetus and recommends an abortion. The person has an abortion, and it turns out that it is not checked whether or not what the doctor said is wrong. There are no reports and no studies to monitor. In the cases we are talking about, there are 1,040 abortions a year, last year, 40 for medical reasons. It is not written in any way whether it was right or wrong. Does she feel that this is normal? If an official, like a doctor, claims that something is wrong and the person believes that it is true, does it not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson was very grateful for his counter-sponsored response. First, I want to answer the argument, 16 weeks, 18 weeks, 20 weeks, 22 weeks, whether these arguments are not quite equal in terms of them or no restrictions. Yes, the evidence holds true. That's the point. The numbers show black in white that in countries such as Canada, there is no restriction, there has been no change in the rate of pregnancy loss, and the timelines for women to break up do not increase. There's a lot of information to show it. But for some reason, those who speak the highest have not looked at that fact. Women are intelligent creatures. They are, and we must trust that there will not be a fundamental change, since we are talking about women's bodies. It's been like this for years, and it's still like this even a long time since it was turned into Canada. It hasn't changed, and I don't see why the senator thinks there will be some fundamental change in the woman's view of his pregnancy. In view of the fact that women haven't got no, they've also been told us that they went to Britain because they couldn't have been put here. I don't personally know any such women, but this is a discussion that has been conducted. I have to trust those here not to make false remarks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. However, she did not answer the medical question I raised when a doctor decides that something is wrong and tells parents. I ask her if she is not worried, or if a woman decides to have an abortion before week 12 and if a woman decides to have an abortion at her last turn - as she said she is free in Canada - before birth? I think there are two completely different things. I say for my part that I would not want to be in the place of a woman who has to make such a decision. That must be the scariest experience of all time. The saddest part of all of this may be what I think is that it is, in many respects, the woman's decision. But we're shutting down that the father has anything to say about it. We could make arrangements for discussion, but it must not be even included. I kind of feel that the woman should discuss this with someone before her decision, even though she is the ultimate one. But that is not even part of the problem, it is not even true of married couples. The woman can make her decision without talking to her husband. I just can't understand in all our equality and all our equal talk that we don't ask ourselves that question. Although this is the ultimate right of the woman, is not such a conversation entirely for granted?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u93	President wants less of it. Congress is used when they direct their words to others. Senators, we're going after the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. I forgot to answer the question, Is there not a need for confirmation after the break of pregnancy if a doctor has concluded that something may be wrong? Really, you shouldn't ask an answer, much less an answer, but I just sent it out to the air: Who is it? What should a woman do with this information after a break in the womb and a decision for medical reasons is made because two physicians have advised it and said that there is a far greater possibility of serious harm to the foetus, which may not have been as serious as seen or so serious? What should a woman do about such information afterward? For whom and for what? I want to ask people to consider it. Regarding the moral requirements, I also ask: Do I not have the same moral standards for a 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 - week embryo, 12, 14, 16? Aren't we just there? Don't take the woman to at least has a discussion with her husband, and how are we going to find out that conversation? Are we going to set up a topic for discussion that will enter the home and confirm that a husband and wife have spoken to each other? Who will state that a woman has spoken to a man or some other man in town about this situation and that she has made her decision? I'm not sure we're in the right place with this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u95	A respectable president. We'll talk about a bill for pregnancy discontinuation. A group of people have sent in and maintained a 3rd change proposal. In all this discussion, we look, I think, over the course of things that are important. It's kind of sad that we 2nd. there were many questions that I thought would have to answer, and especially one question about the claim that at the end of Week 22 or before the time, it is impossible for a child or an fetus to survive at the time of his birth. The fact is, what I've seen abroad is that there are about 6% of the survivors. The evidence was used by the surgeon general who was supposed to have sent it in that it was impossible for a child to live before week 22. But just above this limit, there has been a child's survival in Iceland. Then there's something else. I wanted my surgeon back to a hearing in the crime scene. I thought that was normal, since the matter was set up to the welfare committee after the second. I believed that it would be possible to discuss the matter a little bit better and to get more reporters to appear to the committee. But for some reason, this matter had to be rushed to a tremendous extent. It was as if life depended on bringing this matter through the council and making it a law. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. That would not have changed in itself if a week had been waiting. I don't understand that this case could not be delayed. There are also some topics discussed and discussed on the welfare committee. It's, for example. Section 5. The bill. With President's permission, I'm going to read it: In accordance with the laws of these, it is advisable to break the pregnancy for a youth's sake, without the permission of parents or guardians, at her request. In the context of pregnancy break, the patient should be offered advice and advice on contraception. That's where we're talking about a baby. It is allowing an abortion in a baby until the 22nd week of pregnancy without parental consultation. I ask myself, why don't we call some warning bells, that we don't just ask ourselves, " Wait, is it normal to have things like this? ' And I ask myself, " Isn't the child responsible for his parents? ' So far, I would've thought it was a child in this case. There are always perimeter cases, the cases being mentioned, that are why these 22 weeks are needed. The evidence is also: Why are 22 weeks stopped? In a review of the welfare committee by the Guðmundur Pálsson, an expert in domestic medicine, the President's permission states: A new abortion bill is now available for the General Assembly, with extended literature until the end of week 22, when the fetus is more than half-grown in the mother's womb. As a doctor, I think it's my duty to speak against this, because I find it undefeated to spend life in the mother's womb, especially in the case of a fully formed child who has only yet to grow. I honestly don't understand where we're at. I thought most of us were against taking someone's life, but it doesn't seem that way anymore. Because each embryo has a special genome and is a human being, whatever the case. The life that is destroyed is to form either a boy's or a girl's life. It is not possible to avoid the judgment that abortion is really the execution of human life. A common answer is, Should a wife not exercise authority over her own body? The answer must be yes, but is limited because it does not have to take another life to control it. For the fetus in the womb is not her life, but the life of another person with another genome, nervous system, circulation, heart, and all organs. All organs have developed during the first trimester of pregnancy at 13 weeks and therefore are no longer embryos. An ultrasound heart rate is seen at 6◯7 weeks I have previously pointed to this, and it is borne out that 1,044 abortions were performed. Of these, about 40 were for medical reasons. That we should not try all we can to prevent women from making this difficult decision only in exceptional circumstances. That's what we're supposed to start with. But that's not the end of it yet. We're supposed to make sure that contraception and everything that they're about is free, just completely, so no one needs contraception because he can't afford it. So let's start too. That's what we're supposed to start with before we make room for 22 weeks for abortion laws. Of course, we can start right away, and we can offer a bill to help in these cases. Exceptional situations have been considered when something is wrong with the fetus and are likely to be destroying it. - I'm sure there's nothing in it. María Jónsdóttir writes a review to the Committee. She's born with vertebral fragility and is a development coach with a MA degree in disability. I can't understand it any other than that her concern is that once we're up to 22 weeks, most of the embryos are going to be destroyed. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to grab hold of María's letter, where she writes word for word: ▪ I also talked to some mothers of children born with this disability, women who got the diagnosis of pregnancy, but some children have been born in Iceland with vertebrae in recent years. One mother told me that they, as the prospective parents, were asked during their pregnancy whether they had a home in a nearby home for wheelchairs, but their baby does not have to use wheelchairs. Another mother spoke of her deadline until week 22 to have an abortion, but then when she was in the maternity ward, another woman was giving birth to a premature infant at week 24 and everything was tried to save that child. That's exactly what I often feel is forgotten, that there are things that happen at birth and in life. Although there are a small number of disabilitys during pregnancy, so many things that are not diagnosed during pregnancy and other health problems and accidents that people may face in their lives, so that all of us will never be the same, all harmless. Sad to say, in many cases doctors, not of any bad mind, make it very likely that they will have to have an abortion. It can be extremely difficult to decide not to follow the doctor's advice in that case and to continue with your pregnancy, but it may bring birth to a healthy baby. What the doctor thought was wrong. That is why I find it odd when I asked the commission when a representative came from the surgeon, and particularly in the context, if they were following the claims that something was wrong and therefore needed an abortion, and if it was checked to see if it was true. For what purpose did I ask that question? Yes, because if the doctor is wrong, a reevaluation of the claim that led to the decision that the treating physician considered it very likely that an abortion would be needed because the child could not have much chance of being born. The people's team of people agree with most of the factors involved in this bill. We disagree with the bill's name, a pregnancy breach. - Pervert? We break something, we break a wall, we break a road. But it can be fixed again. But in this case, if we break the pregnancy, it cannot be taken back. That's why we're aborting, we're abortion. We're supposed to talk about things as they are, don't put them in beautiful wrappings so -- I don't know what - peace our conscience. We're supposed to make sure that on the edge of this woman's appearance, the woman will be totally helped, hers, guided, and given help. But these are exceptional cases. These exceptional cases are so few. For 1,044 abortions, only 40 are for medical reasons. Let us always allow all bells to ring and ask ourselves, " Why do one in five pregnancies be spent today, and that without our asking ourselves, " Wait, how can we ever make sure that women don't have to be in this situation? ' We will do so by all means, doing all we can to help those who will eventually become pregnant. We help them in every way, making sure that at any point, they do not have to be in the terrible position of having to make a decision to destroy a life that has occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u96	Mr. President. I have a lot to do with a talk. A senator to check, but he's going to stick with one remark as a matter of course. A senator came along and turned to the section of the bill that allows girls under 18 years of age to break up without consulting their parents. Hv. A senator asked if parents were not responsible for their children and were concerned about this bill. So I want to ask you why. A senator's ability to visualize a parent's approach and how a decision would be made if parents and a minor girl did not agree on a pregnancy break. I'm gonna set up an example. Let us assume that a 13 - year - old girl is pregnant and wants to have a pregnancy break in the sixth week of pregnancy, so we do not go all the way back to the day of our birth. A senator has been flaying around in some side trial in his speeches today and in other days. We watch that a 13 - year - old girl wants to break up pregnancy, but her father disagrees with her and wants her to walk with her. How does it work? A senator for health care professionals to determine who should be allowed to control the body of this baby girl?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The answer is simple: The final decision must be the girl. It must be because it is a child and this child is not denied in the situation today. I don't understand how to apply this new bill because this statement goes on today. A 13 - year - old child is most likely at risk for pregnancy. That's what it says. It's just an exceptional situation. But the support for this child - it certainly does not provide the parents'support for that decision. It's what I'm talking about, that you can put this up so that she doesn't have to talk to her parents and she doesn't have to inform them. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u98	Mr. President. It's a good thing to hear it. Yet, a senator supports a final decision for a 13 - year - old girl who does not want to wear a child to the full. But I still ask myself, " How does he support himself in carrying out the instructions that parents make their decision? ' Of course, it would be reasonable for parents to give their children support in this situation. But how does it work? A senator for the legislation to expect to be obligatory? If we assume that incest was involved - how should the law be handled? How will the Lawgiver order this? And this may lead me to what I've also noticed in the case before. A senator when he speaks of the man's approach to the woman's decision. How will the Lawgiver decide? How will he assign a conversation between individuals who have had close contact or who are close to each other? Isn't it just at their table? Must not these girls decide whether they want to talk to their parents or to the women decide whether they want to talk to their mates or to their neighbors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, it tells itself that it is the decision of the child in this case, and I'm not against it. But what I don't understand is that the law does not include the parents'being informed about this. If you talk about incest, then the mother must be out there somewhere. Don't you think she'll be allowed to support that child? I'm just asking myself. Why on earth is this strange? What I find strange is that things can be put in such a way that the child does not need to be informed by his parents. That's strange to me. I don't think there's anything strange about it that parents should know, and I think they have a right to know. But then it must be the final decision on the subject, and whether a child's life is put at risk must have an impact on the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u100	A respectable president. All I want to do is ask the senator about the rules of conduct for the Generals. 18th par. Their rules of conduct are about how to issue a case from a council committee. 3 mg. The article discusses how we should deal with disagreements as to whether the matter should be stopped, and later, if the committee is not united, what should be done? Today, both of us attended a social committee meeting on April 29, where a bill for pregnancy break was passed to cover 2nd. As far as I can remember, the senator and I, like everyone else on the committee, have supported them. I now think it is also reflected in the fact that the senator is taking a minor stand at their decommission, so he has been present and awake at the meeting. Somehow, though, he has missed that we agreed that at the time, all the upsets and reports and viewpoints of the people who came in were taken into contact with him. That is what it means to mention in agreement to resolve matters for discussion. That's why I'm simply asking, because this is the senator's opinion that there's no hurry and that there's no question about it, because I didn't get the answer at a committee meeting here between 2 and 3. ... awrong.: What is stated at 2nd? which was not already seen? What calls for some more visitors to have new information?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry, but he would like to refer it to the Father House. It may well be that he's asleep at meetings. I don't know what he was exaggerating, whether he sleeps at meetings, but I don't. I was wide awake, I'll tell him about it. What I was asking for was simple. The case was set up in 2nd. and as I have so far said, and I can repeat it once more: It was claimed here in the platform that no child could survive before the end of week 22. It was referred to a surgeon. That's what I asked for. Then two other doctors were asked to come in, and one woman in her ongoing discussion, which could have been taken just an hour in one committee meeting morning. There wouldn't have been anything to do with the Committee - unless, yeah, the case hadn't made it today, but next week. Of course, it was just a terrible sleeping request that I sent in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u102	A respectable president. I don't think the Senator has to point to the fatherhouses, for I just pointed out that he had not been asleep at this meeting, which is reflected in his being on the tip of the case, knowingly, like the rest of us. This example was highlighted in the reviews. This is just one of the reasons we'd taken sides. So there is still no perplexing reason to address the matter for further discussion on the committee. Because we're not doing anything to bring in visitors, only to show up. When we decide for 2nd. To resolve the matter, the full investigation of the committee is to make a point behind what is already being done. And if the senator changes his mind and regrets having agreed on the matter to the 2nd. That's a whole different Ella, and it's not about the grammatical treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, but I'm just going back to the same thing. I can't understand why it was so hard to allow this discussion. It's simple. Why not? Why not discuss this further? Who would that have hurt? Would that have affected the progress of the case? I can't see that the course of this case would have had any effect unless it had come a little later to treat the council. There could have been a little more discussion. Is it so scary it couldn't have been? Also, there was information discussion, that a child does not have to inform his parents. That's what they started talking about. But it was over, and I thought it would be possible to discuss it better. But that was not done. So I ask, why couldn't we discuss this just a little while longer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's two things I wanted to ask you. A senator in. One, why shouldn't we have talked about it better? Now I'm not on this committee, but I understand it. A senator agreed that the matter would be taken out of the committee and taken to 2rd. It's customary for guests to be taken care of by committees with committees and to come into the hall. I can't quite figure out what happened here at the councilroom in the meantime, after all the guests, why now, after that. A senator agreed that the matter would be taken out, talking about his regret that he had agreed that the matter would be taken out of the committee. The second thing I ever thought about was that I was at rest. A senator points to one reference work, the Guðmundur of Pálsson, a specialist in domestic medicine, which provides negative comments on this bill. But if we're starting to talk about experts, you wonder, " What about the comments of the Icelandic birth - and - gynaecologists who celebrate the bill? ' They're the professionals who come to these exact matters in every case. Because a woman does not break her wife's pregnancy. There's no warrant for that. One might wonder: " If we are going to lean on experts, should we not be supportive of experts in this trade?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. If we take this matter as it was at the welfare committee, we'd be talking about 2nd. Here and then to the welfare committee. There I wished to call more guests and discuss the matter further, and I did not approve of the case again until I had received this discussion. So I made a book that made me uncomfortable that the matter would go back into the Hall because I was not allowed to call out to those I wanted and discuss the matter further. That's all I asked for. I don't understand why in the world it is so hard to admit that there are so many questions about the 2nd. which was needed to ask when the matter is brought into the welfare committee after that discussion. Is the senator and members of Congress really going to tell me that it was never called in and discussed after the council? um., after a case goes back to the committee, if there have been any questions? Then I'll just bet on something if I do. There were over 60 reviews that came in, positive and negative, many more negative than positive. I think it was particularly about that long time, 22 weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First, the treatment only within the committee. Visitors are known to appear between the 2nd and 3rd districts. It just happened last year, I remember, in one case, which was for a administrative committee and a surveillance committee. There was an emergency meeting at the Assembly Hall, even where guests were called. But as far as I understand the discussion today, other members of the committee were simply requested to respond to a request to have the same guest returned to the committee to inform me of something that had been informed and was simply canceled. I'm afraid it's called democracy for votes on whether or not to take a case back out of the committee. Sometimes you just have to submit to it somehow, bless your democracy, sometimes trip you, and sometimes you don't. Depending on whether or not you agree. But as for the reviews, I ran over them and read them most, and I saw that there are not many experts there. [[The president calls.]] People are even sending out comments like this from their own feelings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, it was all I asked for, to have more discussion. The majority of them thought they knew better, believed that what I wanted to talk about was over and that there was nothing more to discuss. That's why we're here today. On the other hand, I've been complaining and complaining about my nerve, sort of, asking for this conversation that is incomprehensible to me. Because, of course, I have the right to ask for an ongoing discussion if I feel the need to do so. There should be no taboo or like I'm keeping it quiet. I just don't understand that there's a tip about me asking for this. But I was denied and the case came in here. So there's no difference. And yes, there were few experts in there, but they share too. They don't agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u108	Mr. President. We're in the middle of the 3rd. about pregnancy breakpoints. Since 1975, I have been able to deal with the situation, and that is why I am moved to make again and again to make a decision to establish existing legislation, since the year 1975, that women can break up pregnancy until week 22. What is being changed by the bill is that now no longer needs a committee of experts to agree that such conditions exist and that women, no matter what level, during any week of pregnancy they choose to break the pregnancy, will receive the formal socialist and government doctors' rights. Therefore, women's self - determination rights over their own bodies are being talked about as much as they have been done during the discussion because the legal environment today does not respect the women's self - determination rights. Rather, it is up to officials to decide on their behalf whether they may receive the health care that pregnancy breakes. The current legislation expects a woman to have a pregnancy breakup until week 22 after week 16 of pregnancy in case of a certain number of separate forms of pregnancy. They go on to see if the mother's life or health are threatened by continued pregnancy, if the fetus is not permanent, or if the fetus is considered to be severely disabled. In order for a woman to have a pregnancy break at that time, to meet those criteria, committees need to determine if the conditions are met. What is being changed now is that the woman will be dependent on whether she wants to break up, up to week 22, or not. The advantage of bringing this authority into the woman's hands, seeing out of the woman's self - determination, is that it removes certain direct discrimination against disabled persons from the law, which is one rule that says that pregnancy is not to be broken after week 16 of pregnancy. One of the exceptions to that rule is if the fetus is considered to be severely disabled. The exception of the general rule is that if you have a severely disabled fetus, you can have a pregnancy break after week 16. This is the law of law that it is today. This is discrimination against disabled people. This change is in harmony with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People. There's one choice. The second option is that women requiring pregnancy break up after the 16th week of pregnancy must be met with situations in which to deal with extreme social conditions, e.g. if you have very young girls who do not trust in telling about their pregnancy until it is very late or even unknown to her, women who are heavily drug addicts, women who have been abused by domestic violence, women or girls who have suffered incest or rape, various cases, very difficult situations that today are beyond the reach of law. The only recommendations that apply today after the 16th week of pregnancy are that the fetus is considered to be severely disabled, that the life or health of the mother are threatened, or that the fetus is not permanently viable. What we're doing with the law is simply to trust women with this decision, that they can make it themselves, and that they need no more than they want, because they certainly have the authority to seek advice, to get approval from health care professionals, or others for their decision about themselves and their bodies. So our laws as they are now do not assume that women with very difficult social situations can break their pregnancy at the time of the 16th week of pregnancy. There's one thing. If that happens to some people. Congress suggests that the weekly number will be transferred to 20 weeks is excluded from the possibility that women may become pregnant after 20 weeks of waste when it is found that the embryo is such as everely disabled. Some of them were nuts. Congress officials may feel that this is all right and want to force women to wear seriously disabled children - and thus narrow women's choices in terms of what they are today - but I strongly object. All right, I'll hold on. Councilmen consider examples of four single - parent children who learn that she is pregnant with a very severe disabled child who will need much care for her whole life and will take from her many hours that she would otherwise have spent caring for her four children. I wonder what. Congress officials feel that they are children and whether they are thinking of children with their change of ideas because she is being removed from them. I'd like to maintain that, based on current legislation - and that's how it is in the world where legislation is more liberal than ours - 95% of the women break up before the 12th week of pregnancy. It's an overwhelming part of them. Hv. Congress officials act as if there were a huge change in our decision - making ability from health - care professionals to our own women. However, that does not hold water, Mr. President, because there is no purpose in it. It is not wise, it is not wise, it is not in any way a pregnancy breaker is delayed when there is much less intervention and interference in a woman's life if she breaks her pregnancy before the 12th week of pregnancy, as they know well themselves. However, there must be room for women to use a pregnancy break after that period because of various reasons they can best evaluate themselves. That is why we are making a decision to the women. I've been watching the discussions from the beginning, and I was here today, though some of them. The delegates came up here and began talking about peace, that we needed more time to settle this matter. When it comes to reconciliation, one has been most concerned about the number of weeks. He has been discussed back and forth, both in the two discussions that have been held in the Senate hall until the end of the 3rd. And this 3rd. and also on the tail. The welfare committee for the treatment of the situation. I wondered, " What kind of peace is it? ' Councilmen are calling for and how sincere they are in their reconciliation. If I were to talk about settling matters, I might want to listen to the viewpoints of those who disagree with me, perhaps using my right to appear in a public chair and to answer those who disagree with me and ask them why, on what basis, and with what reasoning they disagree with me. This does not apply, however. Transporter of the change proposal, right? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who did not participate in 1st. with regard to this matter, has not been given a single objection in the entire discussion, apart from answering our own words, and has been giving just one talk on this matter in the rest of the year 2 issue. They have not been in this room and have participated in discussions on this subject, not in 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... not the 2nd. And I don't see them at 3rd. They're what they were. Councilmen who felt that this matter would have more time, more discussion, and more peace of mind about it are not here to participate in discussions about the matter, whether at the time. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason or what? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who both want some sort of reconciliation. I wondered what that reconciliation is going to do if it is not just a matter of objective basis for them. In order to get the important discussion that they feel may require more time and time during the council. I don't really understand what kind of reconciliation they're going to accept by such behavior. Mr. President. Finally, I feel that it is important to discuss the viewpoints that have been presented in discussions on this subject since then. Councilmen who believe that men should have access to this decision in some way, that they should be asked for it, although not necessarily forced by women. There's been little answers when I've asked why. Councilmen how they see the male entrance to the women's decision on pregnancy break, whether to drag them with the authority of the police, and to ensure that they do not break up if the man disagrees or drags them with the police and ensures that they break up if the male feels they should, or who should, be in charge. It is as if it takes a lawyer to tell the people in the country to have normal relations, to talk about life and existence, and possibly whether to end a pregnancy or not. Do we need the Lawgiver to tell us? How should the lawgiver tell us? And if it's not the woman, who's to be included in that context, and if the old man should be there, and if he's somehow supposed to be equal, who's to it? What kind of equality is that? And how should the lawgiver order it? I can't quite picture it. How is this to be carried out by the man? Is it not only normal for a woman to talk to men about the possibility of breaking a pregnancy? Should we force them to do that? How will we force them to do so? Do we need to be advised by the man before a woman breaks her pregnancy that he has been reported to have her operation in order for women to have her? How's it going? Elders enforce their will that men have access to these women's decisions? How do they want to do that? I haven't had a clear answer to that. I don't know how to put it in a rule book or act without us entering some phytopistic community movie that I don't want to participate in. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to state that they are. Senators who speak of the 20 - week change proposal are forcing women who do not want to wear seriously disabled children to do so, regardless of their circumstances. They want to force children to walk with children if they get past week 20 when they get pregnant. This is what they're down to. Congress officials want to do, and they should be more honest about their intentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdótir for the speech. There are a lot of things I don't quite understand, and I think there are some contradictions. It has been repeated in this discourse that there is no modification of any existing law code in the 22nd week. At the same time, 16 weeks are being said, and in one place it is talking about the rights of disabled people. But 20 weeks are said to prevent these disabled persons from being destroyed. Where's the line? Senator? 22 weeks? Is that 16 weeks in current legislation? Why do I sometimes hear that this procedure is really permissible at week 22? I've understood it that way, 2 mg. 10. ... that if an abortion occurs after the 16th week, there must be clear evidence of it - I have come to realize that you would like to have the woman's decision completely, that she alone should make that decision. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Where does it appear in the legislation? With these 22 weeks, did a senator say at the beginning of his talk? I just can't find it, it's obviously my agile heel. And then another: when is it really so? A senator believes that it is right to deprive the woman of her own pregnancy? So that's at Week 22? Has it ceased to take advantage of this self - determination and self - determination?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u110	Mr. President. I've figured it out. A senator is very confused about this matter over the number of weeks. She's been talking about it all the time. But I've gone over it. I went over it in my transport address, how the current legal environment is, how the current procedure is being carried out. It is that women can normally break off pregnancy to week 16 based on these conditions for either social or medical conditions, after which there are three exceptions. The exception is that the fetus is considered to be a serious disability, teratogenicity, as mentioned in our 1975 law, or that the life and health of the mother are seriously compromised by continued pregnancy, or that the fetus is not considered permanent. These are the three exceptions of the current law. As is now being carried out, a severe disability of the fetus is considered to be restricted to week 22 and pregnancy ruptures are permitted on this basis up to week 22. This is the way it is now, but it needs to be mentioned and made up of many processes. Inside, there are discrimination messages to disabled persons. This should only be true in the case of a disabled fetus. What the lawgiver is trying to do here is remove a law-enforcement law that says no longer applies to the general rule, no longer to a pregnancy break, is a serious disability of the fetus. There is the direct discrimination in the existing law. At the same time, though, we do not want to force women to wear seriously disabled children. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. A senator does not want to do such a thing. Unfortunately, though, I think the truth is different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir for the answer. It is inclined to give rise to opinions, as can be seen. I asked a simple question: Where does it appear in current legislation that there are 22 weeks? I just can't find it, even if I can read. And the only confusing, I'm also reading as a lawyer, and I understand the contents of a 10. Well, at least at the right time. A senator is trying to cut it into my mouth and pretend that I don't know the head or tail on it, which stands in my mouth right now is a why. Senator. That's why I'm going to ask again, "Where? " A senator, can you find this pointed quote in the 22 weeks in current legislation? Well, maybe. A senator referred me to that article in current legislation as she is trying to feed on me. Article 10. The legislature?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u112	Mr. President. We have the information that pregnancy rupture is carried out up to week 22 on these terms, that is carried out on these laws, unless the life or health of a woman is placed in such a grave danger, or the fetus is not considered permanent. [[Where?]] This is beyond the 22 weeks. The current procedure has been carried out on the committee, and this would have been the case. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, who has been present in the treatment of the welfare committee, could tell. A senator about. The 22 - week range has been established because of the lack of embryonic viability. [[In what article?]] That's why. Hv. A senator asks where this is found in the legislation. This is not included in the legislation. However, this has repeatedly been observed on meeting lines. This is what the welfare committee is doing. That's the way the law is measured. That's what they're doing. [[Up front.]] There is nothing to change to the current process, not any created thing against it, except that we are going to remove direct discrimination against disabled persons from the legislation, and we are going to give women an independent right to have a pregnancy break or not in accordance with current practice. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and will, since she has talked about peripheral incidents, asks: "If we watch that the last few years, on average, have been performed 1,000 per year since 2011. The average number of patients is about 30 to 1940 for medical reasons. As a result, it is very close to 1,000 people, who are for some other reason. Where it is. A senator would be pleased to know if she is clear in how many of the more than 1,000 cases are personal cases. How many abortions of these 1,000 are involved in children, about addicts, in these peripheral cases? And then I'd like to ask, too, because she is very unhappy that men have something to do with an abortion. A married couple who decide to have an abortion have no need to talk to their husband. He has no right, just zero. He does not even have the right to know if his wife is pregnant or not, if that pleases her. As a result, there is no equality, just zero. Does she just think that's normal and normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u114	Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks extensively of an average of one in five pregnancies being interrupted in Iceland. I would also like less. One member of the council says that one in four women has had sexual abuse in her life, just to take care of it. I wondered if he would like to receive information from the women who have a pregnancy break, whether they have been raped, and if this is necessary to justify their pregnancy break. Do you need them to say what? A senator that they in general have very poor health and knows only for themselves that they will be badly treated by pregnancy and thus will not be registered as some particular medical phenomenon but will use their right to break a pregnancy? They also need to be let go. A senator knows that this was the reason for this? I wonder what. A senator will not ask himself, as I have asked him so many times, how should the lawgiver order the husband's stranger, as he says, in this matter. How should the lawgiver order it? How should the lawgiver do that? How should we make sure that man has some sort of enjoyment in this? And how should we have the terms, if it is a husband who uses domestic violence and rape, and I don't know what? How should this be appreciated? Why do we need to include it in the laws of law? Got it. A member of the body of elders, for example, does the law meddle in the family affairs and how a husband and wife talk to each other and whether they will do so? And how's it going? A senator enforcing that the old man is informed, that he has some access to the case? How does he provide for laws that command it? How will he do so? Because if he has any idea, he must inform me about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I'm also going to say, "There are exceptions. Clearly, it has no answer because that information is not available. There is only medical evidence that 41 out of 1,040 were for medical reasons. Other data are not available i.e. for the reasons of pregnancy rupture and/or abortion. Also, it is claimed that these 20 weeks were studied in a meeting of the welfare committee. I've got my notes right here. I see 12 weeks, 16 weeks, and I see one place called 20 weeks. There's no way we can tell why that is. This occurs much more by 16 weeks and 12 weeks. So I just dismiss the fact that it was all over. I think it's very strange the other way around. A senator who is not even on a welfare committee would arise and tell what was done on the welfare committee. I'd like to ask her if she was at these meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u116	Mr. President. The last question is why. A senator is quick. I wasn't at these meetings, and I know why. A senator. On the other hand, my coworker is still a member of the group. The head of the welfare committee, Halldóra Mogensen executive of this case, and we have had much and good discussions about it, as if it were normal for most of the council groups, I would have thought. Sadly, though, that does not seem to be the case. Hv. A senator wants me to answer how many peripheral cases there are. That's how I get the feeling. People don't want any space for these peripheral cases because they think they're too few. That's why they're fishing for these extremes. If they're so few, should we just not have room for them? So, why don't we just let it go for these peripheral events? Hv. A senator calls this an outback. I have heard that there are about four, five cases a year involving very serious social events. Should we rule them out because there aren't enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u117	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u118	- No, let's say what. Senator. Still, he wants to move the number of weeks down to 20 weeks or 18 points, that's not clear. He may just disagree completely with abortion, but he is not prepared to admit it. Finally, I'm going to let me answer a question. A senator or a student's claim - that these 1,000 abortions are only not known for any medical reasons. I'm just gonna let myself say that there's a reason. There is no reason why these women chose to break their pregnancy. Will he go and visit all of them and ask: "Why did you break your pregnancy? Why does he want to know so much? Why does it have to do with him when women came to him for health care? It's none of his business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u119	Mr. President. We'll talk here at the 3rd. a bill to correct a pregnancy break, such as colic. Councilmen are aware of, the second part of the change in counselling and instruction about sex and pregnancy and abortion and sterilization procedures. A very vivid name, or so on law. In other words, we have agreed, as the members of the council know, on the grounds of the sterilization procedures performed here earlier today. The nature of the case has been very detailed. There are differing opinions, not just here at the Senate Hall, but in the community as well. I have given it up, so we are making a pivotal decision on women's self - determination rights and in reality not getting tired of saying it. It is of utmost importance that we face the fact that when the law was given at the time, in 1975, the women's movement in the country was not at the location of the law, for the General Assembly was then completely different from that of today. The women's movement in the country fought for the self - determination of women, and now, 44 years later, if I calculate correctly, we are here to be lawmakers ready to accept that requirement with the women's movement. The present situation is that despite regulations 10 g. The current law that abortion is to be performed normally before week 12 or not later than week 16 is interpreted by the law, which actually occurred before that date. a health committee, pregnancy breaker is performed in Iceland up to 22 weeks of pregnancy. The number of weeks is chosen, not by accident, but by chance. Because the World Health Organization's view is that if the possibility of an unborn person's extramarital life has become high by week 22, it is justified. We then know that communities around us have taken a different stand. Some countries even have no time limit for breaking a pregnancy, but we are not there. V.E.G. A medical minister provided a bill for the 22nd week as a time limit. As noted in the discussion, there have been cuttings between weeks 18, 20, and 22. We did it in trouble. The welfare committee. We had guests to discuss this, probably in the council too, and with other members of the council on the march, etc. But it's just that if we're going to answer these two factors, i.e. On the one hand, taking disability away from the law and the other, at least equally important, i.e. to respect the self-imposed right of women, to me it is not possible to find ways to write in some of the terms of divorce between 18 and 22 weeks apart from coming back in with the disability prejudices, which include: The United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people speaks against them, and the organization of disabled people also speaks against them. Somehow there is no way to find out any truth there, and even health - trained people, as I am, can't see the way to write these exits. Because we'd always get in that situation - wait, yeah, it's supposed to be this parole, not the others. On what basis? Before you know it, we're having trouble. The following is mentioned in paragraph 4. the bill, i.e. by permission of the President: If the life of a pregnant woman is put at risk of continuing pregnancy or if the foetus is not considered permanent, pregnancy cessation is permitted only after the end of the 22 week of pregnancy. The confirmation of two physicians should be provided that the foetus is not permanently viable. It's really the device that could have been written in, my own knowledge. Would it have been possible at week 18? That in itself would have been possible, but then we would have actually been limiting the right of women according to the law of today. I wouldn't have thought it a good way to go that way. Let us see that our community has changed much from what was 40 years ago. Today we live in a community of diversity. It is no longer that 95% of the people belong to the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Much of the people and the people living here have a completely different background. People of different backgrounds, different religions, etc. There is no way for us senators at the International Assembly to place us in the place of all these groups or all the people and the diversity. We may not even know of all the diversity. Actually, I don't think so. And, of course, religion is a prominent part of many people's lives, but it does not force women's self - determination rights. He must always be the key, in my opinion, Mr. President. There are a few things, maybe you could say a couple of things I want to come on. That's 5. the bill that has had a few discussions, but not much, of the permission to break up pregnancy in an illegal number of girls. So I would like to refer to the Senate committee on the rights of children or on the matters of the children who are working now to try in some way to see what might be more supportive to those who have a pregnancy break. Because they may not be able to look to their parents for support. The situation of the parents or the family situation may not allow the girl to look for support there. The article says that they girls have the right to instruct and advise about contraception, but they may need support beyond that, and they may be the wisest thing to do about it. a new child protection law or some such law code. Therefore, I refer to this fine committee that it will be considered in particular whether it can be made in that law code. There's a bad possibility I'd like to show up in the Motion Act for about 18 weeks and about 20 weeks that have been a little undergone here. The 20th line - I don't doubt that this motion is well meant, and the idea is, in fact, to bring some kind of, what should you say, Solomon's solution in that if we don't exist at week 18, we don't exist for week 22, but week 20 could be a landing. The timing runs on the same corner as I mentioned in the 22nd week, i.e. that it meets these same angles that today's construction is just different, despite the fact that the law doesn't exactly say it, but as I mentioned earlier about 10 g. The current law also does not have an upper limit of time. However, the procedure is held out in 22 weeks. That's what we're putting into the law right now, but with that warrant as 3 mg. Section 4. Make the call. I think it's good. I, Mr. President, have read every comment given over the case, covered all the evidence in the case, sought advice within the council and outside, both with specialists that appeared before the committee and with other experts. My conclusion is that the landing we're choosing, i.e. At Week 22, the person we should be able to make peace with. As members of Congress, however, we will not influence the moral values of the community, their beliefs, etc. We will not manage families in the country to make decisions or decisions about one thing or another. We ourselves can have moral values. We may personally have opinions about what we think is right or wrong, and there may be something completely different from what the law says. We must recognize that the law should be universal, that it should deal with aspects of the general nature. They are to ensure the right of the citizens of the land. The subjects do not have to make full use of this right if they refuse to do so. We're supposed to make sure we're at least not to detract their rights from what has actually been.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u120	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. He handled the matter very well. What I cut mostly behind was about 5. He is, in effect, measuring that somewhere else there are laws to support children who become pregnant and who have to have an abortion. I'd like to ask you, wouldn't it have been normal for us to have put in some sort of defense? You see, I ask myself, " On the basis that my parents are responsible for a child until he is 18 years old, and then my child becomes self - righteous and can make that decision. ' But until then, it seems very strange to me that we put the child under pressure to make that decision without the knowledge of his parents and without discussing over them, which I find to be a terrible thought. I can't imagine the panic of a child in this situation - but I can't imagine what its horror will be if for some reason it fears its parents so that they can't talk to them. I think it's only in exceptional circumstances. I think somehow we should have been a little more careful. Does the senator agree with that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. It is not only in the pursuit of this type of health care that we respect the right of children to attend service but in many other places - parents do not always need to get mixed in, to develop while young girls go on contraception, etc. I believe that such general sources mean that children can go to a service and trust that trust should be maintained by law, such as child protection or child law, or even by health - care laws. I don't think it particularly should be stated in these laws, though it certainly would have been possible. But I think the scope of these speculations is actually more than that it should be included in a general law of law, and therefore the discussion will be held to form within this committee that I mentioned in my speech, i.e. The Senate Committee on Children's Case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yeah, I can totally agree with that, and I hope it's there, but I would have liked to have it here. But there is something else I would like to ask him. Aren't we being a little different from the North countries with this bill? Aren't we going beyond the rest of the North? Is it normal for us to record this? As I say, I think we should have taken a little more careful steps. I may be able to update my experiences with the council, because now I've only been here for a little over a year, handling committees and other matters. You're learning and you need to learn fast. But I believe I have tried my best to come to this matter in an honest way and to try to see all the views in this matter. What stings me most is how difficult this is. I can't imagine how difficult this must be for those people who are in such a situation, adults, and what if a child comes into this situation. That's why I say it takes absolutely definitely, whether it's a child or an adult, a huge support. Because this is a serious matter. I wondered if we were in the North and if it wasn't natural for us to have been in such places as those in the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u123	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with that. A senator, of course, is a complex and difficult matter, and I do not doubt the senator's good mind in the matter of trying to make a good impression and to identify with the perhaps relevant issues. In particular, whether we're different from the North countries: Yes, there's a big difference between laws in different countries. We are now setting the line at 22 weeks, if I recall correctly, more than two weeks longer than the exceptions in one of the northern countries. On the other hand, other countries we sometimes compare with, such as the Netherlands, Great Britain and Canada, have sources that go further. Of course, it is always difficult to determine which lines or criteria to follow specifically toward any other country. There is also cultural differences between countries that are important and that can be said to do so. It can also be said of such legislation as this, especially in this regard to certain women's rights, that it is likely this way, although I may not necessarily claim that the latest legislation in each of the Northern countries at any given time is likely to be progressive. And maybe that's where we're playing that we're taking the step a little farther than the next country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u124	A respectable president. Here in the 3rd. on this subject, a pregnancy break or an abortion, I would like to review some of the points that I presented in my talk to cover 2. and reflect on the viewpoints that I have added since then, and believe that there is a reason to be treated here during this discussion. I think after a hard exchange of words about the President's meeting board earlier today, no one would have to assume that this is probably the subject of more recent issues that the Parliament has received, primarily based on moral views. As they noted earlier today, the heat below this matter had first come through today. I think that the sharp exchanges that took place here under the previous conference board of presidents crystal to a degree of significance on either side of this matter, and perhaps especially in the group that is concerned about how far we are going here. In this context, I would like to briefly introduce the proper opinion of Iceland's bishop, Father Agnes M. Sigurðardóttir, which says, on permission of the president: Despite the contradictions involved, our association in recent decades has found a balance between the differing viewpoints of the future mother's right to her own body and the right of an embryo to life. Then the Bishop goes on to say: ▪ The new suggestions upset this balance and even raise fundamental questions, which we should, of course, always ask ourselves about the privacy and progress of life in this world. I think it's a very important thing in this case, i.e. that by the way it is now - and the evidence indicates that it will be done right after the weekend - this reconciliation is being interrupted. It is not simple to get along with the community on how to handle such matters. I think we did pretty well so far. But now, as the bishop of Iceland rightly points out, there will be a rift. It's a balance now. I think that anyone watching this fair, ballant-eyed eye must feel sorry for the sensitive nature of the subject. At the same time, I would like to introduce to you a brief perspective that was observed by the former Continent's member of Congress, the Ólína's Þorvarðardóttir, on a review she sent to the welfare committee, and I just want to quote her conclusion, by permission of the president: Undivided, this bill presents a high moral test for those involved, not just by health care professionals, but by anyone concerned. If the bill continues, the peace of abortion in Iceland is likely to be broken. It would be irreparable damage to Icelandic women's rights and human rights in a wider context. Of course, considering the uninhibit of the Ólína's Þorvarðardóttir, there are more involved in these matters than there are a future mother, father, and others. It is health care professionals who, as shown in the comments of the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir's daughter, are going to remain undiscovered in their position to put moral tolerance to the test. Of course, it is a very special position for a healthcare professional to be looking for an embryo growing in the womb until the end of the 22nd week to decide that the end of their life might be taken to the end of the 22nd week and that the role and function of these health - care professionals must be carried out on that procedure, but then several hours later, at the beginning of week 23 - this is just a few minutes - the situation has become that the same health professionals have to do everything in their power and science to save this child. There's something in this matter that I can't grasp, which turns on the greater part of the council to appear, wanting to go up to this threshold, to the point where the fetus has become viable outside the mother's body. Of course, there has been a person in the womb. The fact that a greater part of the Generalis wants to look at it as the operating point, that it can go up to the point that the child is viable outside the womb - I think it's testing the endurance of any who come to this. I am very sorry that we are likely to take the lead in running the issue. I've been very close with the discussion, but at least I've been looking at it. I did not notice that these changes called for a change in other laws or regulations that we work on in the country. I wondered, though, that is of course late, but what. The members of the welfare committee are here in the hall, whether these views as members of the Parliament want to frame with the current procedure and whether the evidence there is a change in other laws. I just want to give an example of child protection, and this is not a matter of a very thoughtful opinion, but it would be interesting to know if this was discussed with the welfare committee. The child protection code says in 16. () By permission of the President's proclamation: Then each person is obliged to alert a child - care committee if there is any reason to believe that the health or life of an unborn child will be put at risk with an unacceptable or hazardous life - style to a pregnant woman. This does not mean that it is necessary for a child to become viable outside the mother's body. There has been no reason to link these two together. There's just an unprovable duty on Icelandic citizens. Again, with president's permission: That any human should alert a child - care committee if there is any reason to believe that the health or life of an unborn child is put at risk with unacceptable or dangerous life - styles of a pregnant woman. No 22 weeks. No 23 weeks. It's just an irrefutable duty that we are required to protect from the life that grows in the womb. Another thing that I wanted to mention in this context is the rules of exposure. Thus, a radiation load is measured in the so - called intermediate species. In general, the criteria for humans to tolerate the assay unit are one. Radiographs, or people working in such an environment, will be able to work as the units reach Phase 3 and the flight groups reach a sixth degree. What would happen to the radial and flight groups in the event of pregnancy? One - the quickest is the reference to one. It has nothing to do with the embryo's viability outside the mother's body. It has only to do with the fetus. So I tell myself, in many of our regulations, we are looking to make sure that the fetus is protected in the way that can be done. I just mention these two items here as an example, this scene from the Child Protection Act and, on the other hand, what is involved in the radiation burden of different professions, which, as I said earlier, goes right down to the unit one, which is the norm, if a woman is pregnant in either a caste or a flight class. Finally, I would like to introduce to you a brief perspective on the National Institute of Moralology. Of course, there have been numerous discussions in this discussion about the anxieties of those who have doubts as to how the situation unfolds, that there is too much urgency here, not considering this enough, not taking into consideration the viewpoints that exist where there are concerns about what is being said and what is being said. In fact, the conclusion of the National Institute of Moralology, which I intend to allow, by the permission of a president, is particularly indicated by the conclusion of the findings: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. First of all, the National Institute of Morality holds that pregnancy breakers can become viable outside the mother's body, and second, the tension between this bill and the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should be taken into consideration. Here are basic questions and opinions about the embryo's moral standing, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination rights of women who need deep and enlightened discussions in society. I am now just one of those who are experiencing this situation so that we are far from having had a thought - provoking discussion, deep enough discussion, about these issues that lead to the moral status of the fetus, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination of women. It sounds to me that few people have doubts about the woman's self - determination rights in this matter. But for my part I can say that I have serious doubts about how we pull the line in these chemicals so that just when the clock beats, let's just say at midnight, if there's a child growing in his mother's stomach, that the pregnancy can be concluded by a decision made by health care providers - just when the clock beats at midnight -- that this same health care professional must protect the life of this child with all the available advice that health care and health care professionals know. It's a situation, of course, that is not fair to put any classes in, I think it's safe to say. I just want to finally admit that I think it would have been a good idea to take more time to discuss this matter and try to make peace, because now it's a balance that's been going on for decades. The views that are being achieved here are not to leave us as a community at the site where they will become a hard stroke for the next year and for the next few years. I therefore do this in my speech and wish that anyone who has participated in this discussion of the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u125	A respectable president. Yes, we still discuss this delicate bill to legalize a pregnancy break, a concept I choose to call abortion from now on. Various arguments have been presented, arguments that I find extremely difficult to understand. I've been asked: Aren't you completely against abortion? It would be a truly beautiful society, undeniably, if we were to live in such a way that our subjects could deal with each other's existence without having to make the difficult decision of an abortion. The fact is, we do not live in such a fantasy society. As I see the trend in today's community, it's mean to people and many perimeters that are under attack. For example, peripheral events involving social difficulties are repeatedly being referred to. What does that mean? This means that a prospective mother who walks with her child simply does not trust to care for her child. She does not trust to have her child in many cases because of poverty. Just think. We have created such a community that this is probably a third of the nation's working people getting paid under 300,000 dollars. a month after taxes. How should such a prospective parent be able to support himself? That they can really offer their child such a life? In our community, two parents or two people, however we choose to call them, need to care for one household, if we're talking about breadwinners in low-paying classes. That's a fact. An expectant mother who needs to put her child in a nursery or to bed mother's work in the dark. She cannot see the baby because she struggles to get food for it. This is Iceland today. What we're talking about right now is making room for abortion until the end of week 22 - and now I'm saying, no, not until the end of week 22, week 22, and six days. This is now one of the views presented here, 22 weeks and six days. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Take it up to: 21 weeks and six days.]] - Let's go back when the choir stopped singing here in the side room if he wanted to be so good. Maybe I can ask the highest. President to give me peace. In current legislation, this is stated in Article 10. abortion should be performed as soon as possible and preferably before the end of the 12 weeks of gestation. That principle is generally applied. That's the positive point. More than 90% of abortions are performed prior to this time. However, we have actually overlooked the principle on how we have developed these actions until the end of the 16th week of pregnancy, as the law says: It should never be carried out after the 16th week of pregnancy, unless there are compelling medical reasons for it. What are compelling medical reasons? There is something to be removed from parentheses. Women's self - determination should include their saying: " I just don't trust myself to have this child. I want to have an abortion now, and you health care professionals have nothing to say. I think it's wrong. I think it's a tough decision. I believe that when there is a major medical issue, there are so many reasons why this must be a complete assessment by a health professional who must assist a woman who wishes to have a desired operation. For example, social problems do not come under these conditions. A lot of parables are spoken and peripheralities are actually tragic. It is said to have no valid terms at the same time, and here are extremes that you hope to be more exceptional, except that there has been nothing but narratives in the form of stories. No matter how much you want to get something else. In fact, it has been said that after 22 weeks of pregnancy, four women had to go to Britain to have such an operation there. No matter how much I try to ask the surgeon general about that, whatever. All I've got is the rumors. But okay. The new article, 4 / 15 ... whichhas been my worst and basically just paraphrasing, it reads, by permission of the President: It is permitted to interrupt the pregnancy of a woman, on her request, until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. Pregnancy breakes should always be performed as soon as possible and preferably before the end of week 12 of pregnancy. That is, in fact, what current legislation also says, this primary objective is being held in there. It has been repeatedly referred to here that current legislation is, in fact, allowing abortion as long as 4. Heeding. The last question I asked was, "What?" paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir about where it was found in the legislation. Then it came out that it was nowhere. There is no such thing in current legislation. By permission of the President, I'm going to finish second paragraph four. Which is as stubborn as me as it is: After the end of week 22 of pregnancy, pregnancy breakes are permitted - notice, after the end of week 22, this is in reality as in current legislation, after the end of week 16, and the continuation of the pregnancy -- ◯ If the life of a pregnant woman is put at risk of continuing pregnancy, or if the foetus is not considered permanent. The woman is then deprived of her own rights because the confirmation of two doctors has to be made, but the article says: - ▪ The firmation of two doctors should be established that the fetus is not permanently viable. The evidence often presented here is about the self - determination rights of women and that we are to have our own bodies. All right. But to some extent, I realize this very badly. I don't know any better than it's always the woman with the final answer, at least In our society. I don't see any harm in the fact that health care professionals are involved in helping her to make such a decision, none. I don't see any problems. In fact, it's been shown here with the man involved, that he really means nothing. It is also sometimes drawn up by some strange perimeter events and has been here in a speaker's office: What are you going to do? Should police officials be drawn to make a mutual decision regarding whether a man would agree that such an operation would be carried out, or what? Actually, it's taking the case to death. I don't understand this kind of discussion. I also find this difficult because of the way this is being done in the community. I think we could really talk about this a little different. Men are also emotional people. They come to things, they're involved, and in society there's still a little bit of a lot about couples and couples. But it is simply often said that the woman has the utmost self - determination over this that the man simply has nothing to do with it. I don't think it's right, especially when we're talking about this duration of pregnancy, because the woman's gestation is more than 60%, with her pregnancy being 18 weeks pregnant. I don't expect a greater part of the body to be achieved, as I understand it. Despite the self - determination rights of women, somehow he is wiped out at the end of week 22. Then we stop having our own bodies and then have to walk with the child and the women whose story says they had to go to Britain to have this operation, and it is likely that they will have to do it after the 22nd week, because they no longer have control over their bodies. A group of people proposed a 3rd subsidiary to the bill. First, we do not feel that it is proper to accept the term abortion and replace it with a pregnancy break. It is really morally wrong, if we feel, to try to minimize the value of the accepted concept of abortion. It is not just the term but the action itself that includes a certain operation, an operation that destroys life. That's a fact. I've been asked, shouldn't we just go straight to work and just say no to all of this? You just look old-fashioned and clearly-- Well, I don't know what to say. But one thing is certain, the argument to speak, e.g. for old legislation and that these legislation from 1975 is a child of its own time - these are repeatedly said here to know that general penalties, laws that can take away our freedom, the law that has the strongest and the greatest intervention in the lives of the city, are from 1940. And the Treaty Act, all the contracts between us in the community are in 1936. The Lawgiver has not yet been able to bring them to more modern values. Well, we've actually updated the law, like a pregnancy violation law. We've tried to update the law at a time, but for fun, the courts have even looked to John's Book of People, and the 13th chapter of John's Book of Peoples, from 1286 to try to find legal conclusions in hard - to - understand cases. We have set the boundaries at 12 weeks as a principle. We haven't said that the rights of this issue, and in reality it has been ignored that until the end of the 16th week, women in general have been able to have this operation. After that, I'm saying clean and clear: If that's not absolutely necessary, I find longer time absolutely the last black, moral wrong, and the right of the unborn child's life. We're talking here emotionally charged; I'm speaking down to them, saying those who have to go through this and have a bad time and it's hard to make a decision, I'm not doing it, I'm not doing it, by no means. A respectable president. I'm sorry, and my heart hurts to have to talk about it right now. There will never be any peace with us in the people's Gang as far as the bill goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u126	A respectable president. I had not planned to answer much to women who are involved in this discussion because I feel that I lack a certain insight needed to be just as dedicated to women in the discussion. On the other hand, I noticed it in a talk. The senator said that she only thought that, as I understood her, her father should have something to say about the matter. I'm a father. I've been married to a pregnant woman. I can relate to being the father of an unborn child, and I understand fully and agree fully with it. A senator's concern is the father's. What I cannot figure out, however, is how to obtain it legally. I wondered what it would look like in the law of the bone, in the direct process. Suppose a pregnant woman plans to have a pregnancy break. So, then, did he need to sign the father's signature, or how would it work? That's the part of the process I don't see in my mind. I would always hope that my future mother would consult with me and not care what I thought. The women in my life so far have said that they would always take me along and that they wouldn't want to have it in any other way. But I can't quite see how it can be something that we're enforcing. I can't see any better than it always has to be individual. I wanted to go inside. A senator's reaction to whether it can really be taken by law or if it is something we are forced to trust people to include in our personal life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson asks and loves her very much. We have the right to view individuals, man and woman in this case, and why. A senator spoke of a father. It is difficult to enact laws unless the father clearly says that it is necessary to do so if he or she is married or married, and especially if he or she is aware of her pregnancy. Sometimes the father is not aware that somewhere he is expecting a child. In such cases, the woman would likely be able to decide for herself without a father, for he knows nothing, that would be impossible. However, it is possible to offer suggestions where such things are expected to be discussed. On the other hand, if it is a firm will, the lawgiver can misinstall it. It would also be of course, I think, a kind recommendation, just as a court case is dealt with by the person, so I guess it's done like a dog. A senator, especially for couples and such, points out that they are united in making that difficult decision. I see it that way. I believe the lawgiver can quite bring this along. We can do just that, just expecting that point to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u128	A respectable president. The questions that come to my mind as soon as I try to think about them are quite complex and complex. As soon as we say, for example. That if the father is a partner, we need his future signature or if they are married - what if they are engaged, what if they are new together? I think it's one of the things in human society that the lawman can't do. I would always hope that people would have as much advice on this and that it would be a least boring and difficult for people, a future mother or a pregnant wife and father as well as anyone involved in it, not an easy decision, and in itself always a situation that is somehow bad. The task I see in front of us is to create a law code that concerns how the law works, not that we can actually set laws to make people's circumstances or will always be what we think best. Of course, the father is always ideal, but legally I don't see how he can do that. Then we are actually putting power over the body of one person because just maybe that person is a prospective father. It doesn't quite fit into my head legally, I must say. I don't expect an answer from what happened. Senator. I just thought it'd be a good idea to roll it over because I agree with it myself. A senator who thinks it's always the best, and I hope that's always the case. But I don't see how we can take it into the law itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u129	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson says it's the best thing in the situation, of course. It is not to speak of Father's permission to write. But what I feel is the tremendous emphasis that is placed on women's self - determination rights, that we have control over our own body. Everything else, in fact, is completely set aside. It's a feeling of having to watch. Despite the fact that we've fought for women's freedom and despite the fact that there's a woman standing here, I feel like it's over everything, whatever I'm supposed to say, something I can be proud of as a woman to compete in reaching out to classify for equality and freedom for women. I wouldn't want to decide if I'd end my life like that. The unborn child alone and without help when I had gone that far. I would've liked to see this move in a different costume. There are many categories, and we have different opinions and ideals. But I feel that the father is just not included, as if there were no father in the equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u130	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be brief. I come mainly here to express how strangely this discussion seems to me, limited. This is even a matter of what a man or a man should be like. We don't always know who he is. [[Just think, don't turn your back on me.]] The issue is whether this should be 22 weeks, or 20 weeks, 12 weeks, or 16 weeks. It also discusses whether this is about freedom of women and self - determination. We do not discuss what is important, the fundamental moral issues. And that's why I say, these bills need a lot more discussion. This should not be about 22 weeks or 20. We need to wonder when life will start. What rights to the fetus in the law? Do not have an unborn baby such as Genetics? Is it just some self - determination of the woman or the couple's right to do that? No one will take that discussion. Not a single man. There's a lot of talk about freedom of women and self - determination. But the same people who talk about them most have no interest in self - determination and the freedom of women from surrogates or from those who want to have sex relations. Then this self - determination and freedom of woman are of no consequence. This argument has a bearing on one another. That's a very strange argument. I think we need to wonder when life comes, what rights that life already has in the law, and many other rights it has legal. I haven't heard one man mention it. Not one senator. I realize this is very difficult. Here we have examples of social difficulties, health issues, and there is no doubt about the health of the mother. But there are other factors that can be related to health care. Despite the need for medical attention, an abortion or an abortion is not medical. This is a decision for right-to-be intervention of the foetus. We must take a serious talk about it based on moral views, even philosophical: Wait, what is this supposed to be? But don't spend all the time discussing weeks, let alone that it's about women's freedom. Of course, it's not about women's freedom. It's about whether the fetus has any rights. It already has the law. When does life start? There are the questions we should be discussing here, but they are not to be discussed. It's just that people are somehow moving the old law to the present, trying to make some kind of space up, i.e. that the pregnancy may be interrupted a long time later, or at least Later than now. If this was a woman's freedom of choice and self - determination, it should not be restricted to 22 weeks. It is, naturally, most likely, the whole of pregnancy. All these reasonings don't come to my mind. So I think it would be perfect, because there may not be so much trouble, that we just pull it back for now and discuss it over again from these points. I think it's very important, because it's a big deal. It's a huge thing in the minds of many. And although I can quite accept the fact that abortion in itself has not disturbed me, I am not alone in the world. However, I have never found any particular reason to believe that women only have the right to abort a pregnancy when they want to, or whether it is at the 22nd week or any other week, that it is an issue of right to abort the fetus. There's no evidence that it's just a simple decision of the woman, but I quite understand the view that there may be some health - related factors, social factors, etc., where it is impossible for the foetus to survive throughout pregnancy. That may be so. I'm not going to belittle it. But these arguments about self - determination, freedom of women, weeks, I feel very relaxed. It is as if no one really dare take the big discussion, which, of course, matters: What rights to an unborn child? When will it gain rights? And what is normal based on our moral standards to abort or interrupt pregnancy by healthcare providers? I just wanted to make this happen, not that this case is intrusive. I just want to make this happen because I think it's right that we have a serious discussion about pregnancy loss or abortion, or what people want to call it, self-determination, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u131	Mr. President. Hv. A senator reviewed his experience with the discussion that has taken place in the Senate Hall on this matter. It just so happens we're in the 3rd. I'm sliding over the course of this case at the council and I'm not feeling it. (b) What questions remain to be answered? Um... not the 2nd. He's coming to the finish line at 3rd. and says that the big questions are not being discussed in this matter. I wonder, first what. A senator suggests that this matter is not well discussed, why he has not been involved in anything until now, since he is deeply concerned that the big questions need to be discussed. Then I'd like to move a dog. A senator reports that there are a lot of people. The members of Parliament discussed this very aspect. When will an embryo's right to life begin? What is the limit to the woman's self - determination and the embryo's right to life? Among others, the one mentioned here has it in 1st. ... andhadawhat. A senator could have heard that if he had participated in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u132	V.E.G. President. The question, why was the candidate not present, has no part in the discussion. I'm just talking about what I've heard here today because I'm here today. I was out of the country when 2nd. I was there. I'm just saying that this has not been revealed today. I've been sitting over this today. I know how this discussion has been more and less. It may be that someone came into this, but I haven't heard anyone do it, yet I heard because technology allows me to do it, part 2nd. across borders, the same discussion. All of this was about self - determination and freedom of women. This has nothing to do with it. This has the question to do: Does a fetus have rights? Does there have any rights in the law that it certainly has today? And where does this set moral standards?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u133	Madam President. The right of an embryo to life has indeed been discussed today as well. That would've been a good idea. A senator heard if he had listened to the whole discussion. The reason why I ask this is why. A senator argues that the matter is simply not well discussed, that the questions and statements he claims have not been discussed in this matter at all. I wonder, first what. A senator feels that it has nothing to do with women's rights but rather the rights of the fetus and that it has not been established in any way in this discussion, why he has not applied himself to it, just at some point since December 12, to take part in the discussion that has taken place until this time he feels he is tortured over all these important questions. I don't have a what? To this day, a member of the body has heard of pregnancy breaking into women's rights or of women's own rights to commit pregnancy. [[The president calls.]] No one. [[The president calls.]] There's newer, certainly, by what? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u134	V.E.G. President. No, I insist that pregnancy break or abortion does not end in the rights of women or their rights to make decisions. There is a reality that people must take responsibility for. Of course, there are exceptions, as I have said before. It's not supposed to be about it. Of course, it's about responsibility. This is primarily a responsibility. A man is stuck with a particular act, yes, the woman and the man may also be able to do some of the work. [[The woman.]] We simply can't let it be about me. I say exactly as I've said before: It doesn't bother me in itself. I'm just wondering what I'm talking about. There are many people here who say: We need to talk about this. I may be ashamed that I had not participated in the discussion sooner or in 1st. or written specifically about this. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's why I'm doing this now because I've felt that the debate today has gone out in many parts of the world, that I'm illogical, and that I really don't. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u135	A respectable president. I'm going into a little bit of a hymn like that. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir and point it out. paritaprevir Son of Brynjar's Níelsson that it is certain that the day of life, the rights of the fetus, and the self - determination of women, and all of that, will have been discussed. Hv. A senator did what he does at times when he needs to be opposed to some freedom. Then he begins to talk about what he is experiencing and speaks of it as a hypocrisy of others if they do not agree with him in any other matter, especially in locality and sex service. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have any difference in his position if he met someone who was in favor of this matter and agreed that women have self - determination when it comes to surrogateism and that they are in favor of women's own right to sex service. You see, I think so myself. I'm in favor of all those matters. In fact, localization is something that you do not object to, it is a little too important. I don't know. I think that's why I'm talking about it. A senator strangely wants to know if there's anything he can do to know that others who will likely agree with him on local passage and sex service and the self - determination of women there are also in favor of women's self - determination rights in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But why not? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u136	V.E.G. President. I was just pointing at the twin in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u137	I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u138	I did all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u139	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u140	- Yeah. The point is, both surrogates and sex transactions just turn to the individual. When we are dealing with abortions or breakages, there is another life at some point as a rights. That's the difference, and it's pretty big. If we walk out on that, for example. that life did not start until after the 22nd week of pregnancy, I would say that it was the woman's perfect right to decide to abort or break a pregnancy. Then I'd be completely consistent with myself, huh? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. But we first need to answer these difficult questions: When will life begin? What rights to the fetus? Are we going to take him from the fetus with such a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u141	A respectable president. Actually, I was pointing at him. A senator says that he could not refer to an alleged double - skind person where he is not present, but that is enough. I'd like to ask a little more about the question that has yet been discussed when life begins. Still, the question must be asked, What on earth is this? A senator is alive because he is alive from the beginning. The fetus is a collection of organisms before it is born. The seed is alive, the egg is alive. They're all living things. When did life begin? For some billions of years. That's the answer. Senator. [[Up front.]] - No, that's not a way out of the way. The problem with a question why. A senator is that if he simply asks when life began, the answer is: someday in the past. That's the answer. In case of a moment. A senator would ask when a conscious person, or something like that, might be an interesting question, or when the fetus is beginning to experience some kind of emotion. In fact, we would need to ask ourselves, " What are feelings? ' Biology just isn't so cut and cut. That is why there are other criteria and standards that are used after a very extensive discussion of the following two weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u142	V.E.G. President. It was one of the most peculiar exits I've heard in a church hall for a very long time. There will be a time when there will be a baby. It's not just in my sperm or yours, is it? Senator. There's something I need to do. So that's not the problem we're dealing with. There is nothing philosophical about the time of the fetus.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u143	What do you mean, "life"?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u144	When does life begin, i.e. The fetus, when does the embryo exist, and when does it receive the right? My sperm does not get the rights. We know that. [[The point is, how?]] I'm not going to figure out what it's like or have a demonstration on it. As far as we're concerned, we know. I would have liked to see a discussion about it instead of driving the case through for a discussion of 22 weeks, 20 weeks, 16 weeks, etc. The answers to the big questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u145	A respectable president. In fact, I have nothing to add. paritaprevir Hermes Níelsson's son has said here. I just really want to thank him for his input into the discussion and this speech, though I would like to say it, as other members of the council have previously mentioned before me in inquirys to why. The senator, that the one standing here has often said, and even gone a long way to say that the life right of the unborn child is here on foot. So I've been there quite a bit, and I think about it. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's Brynjar, may have come to realize that, although a person is drawn into this unambiguous debate, the senator may call it, which I can most certainly agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u146	V.E.G. President. We may not have much to say about this. Of course, you're right. Senator, I totally sensed your position on this. I know who she is. You could say that's right. Men are involved in other discussions, such as those questions that I am demeaning - and they may be unnecessary. But I'm just saying that I'd like to see and hear people in general as to what the rights of the fetus should be, instead of bringing it up to their own rights or their freedom of choice. If we learn that the fetus is not to have rights until 22 weeks, we can start talking about self - determination and freedom of women. But we need to reach that conclusion. [[The president calls.]] However, as soon as the fetus arrives, it receives certain rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u147	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The armour of the son of Níelsson for an excellent speech. I agree very much with that about the discussion he called the following, and in this way first came in, I'll let me say, at least today. I've been watching now, I think I can say, very well with all the discussions, either at the Senate Hall or in my office on TV. I don't know the deep discussion. Marty's members are saying that they've taken care of the things that were wrong. A senator's calling from now on. I'm just urging him to speak for it in his body, because it's not yet been chosen, and it won't be done until next week according to President's records. I'm urging him that a group of lntruders try to see that this will get a better view than it is now. But I may have fallen on time, I didn't realize it was just one minute, so the question comes on the next lap. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u148	V.E.G. President. Yes, yes, I'm very happy to hear that someone is pleased with my speech. It's not every day that humans are. But I may not have much to add. I'll experience the same thing as before. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, both in what I've heard today and in what I looked at. ... awrong.: Although I understood the concern of people, I felt that the discussion was almost exclusively about those things that I feel are of no importance or little importance to me. I understand people's concerns about situations that are being taken away, the problems that may be in this situation, the problems that may arise. But we have to somehow try to get this discussion out of the basic princes, the basics, which, of course, are key in everything like that, instead of running it through those simple reasonings that I feel are not important to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is what I have experienced in the discussion today. I have not noticed that it has been as evident that a bill's supporters so strongly insist that members of Congress should be fully informed about all things, although there is no written evidence in either the reviews or the committees, if they have been discussed at a committee meeting. This is what I think particular care was given to the members of the council of those classes that have some doubts about the matter. Then let me name the Independence Party, the Central Party and the Gang of the People. I have not observed prominent opposition from other places. But this premium, which I'm going to allow myself to call, "Now is the time." The senator with a lot more Congress experience than I do. Is this just the fact that people in this sort of case require that they just shut up if they weren't able to sit at a committee meeting as agents or read up on answers to any possible questions in available written data? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u150	V.E.G. President. Here we go. A senator on a much larger matter about how such things happen in general. I am quite aware that my group of people have differing opinions about this and I think that there are other categories, regardless of what people have been saying on this matter. And I think it would be good for just for each and every member of the council, and for all the Congress itself, to go on this exact and take a serious talk, without striking the table or the devil with threats, about these fundamentals, of which men, of course, have to discuss, the rights of the fetus, when they should begin, whether they are none or should just be none, until there is no birth - or what? And this, I think, is a little jumpy, because the discussion is so hot. People feel uncomfortable, and people get attacked, and men who indulge in the mother become some sort of filth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u151	A respectable president. I would like to start by saying, as I mentioned earlier in return and in my speech to 1. ... that I have to confess to myself firmly, even reasonably, the lack of insight that I believe is needed to make a complete evaluation of this matter. You see, I'm a man and I can't get pregnant, I've never been able to do that, and I've never really been able to put myself in it. I think it's necessary to get proper insight into this matter. I mention this in advance because if I had been hired, men would not have participated in this discussion. I would have found it very interesting to see how the discussion had been handled, especially if only women had participated in it with the full insight into this situation that I think would need, i.e. the situation of pregnancy. I feel that it is important to mention here as a moment's notice what I would like to say, though. I feel compelled to do so in view of the discussion that has taken place, although I cannot take into account all that is needed in order to understand everything that individuals can understand that they can understand or have been in this situation. On the other hand, I have an opinion about how decisions are made and who makes the decisions and then happens to be involved, at least in the discussion, in important matters on this matter. I don't need to be able to relate to anyone else in order to evaluate who should make a decision. That prince's relatively simple. We're here to make a decision on our own matters, all of us. As individuals, we are expected to make decisions on our affairs as individuals, to make democratic decisions as communities, and as a nation, we should make democratic decisions by elections, and in my opinion, by direct democracy. But more about that later, not in this case. When we consider the questions that have been discussed here, i.e. Who should decide if a woman is going to have a pregnancy break? It tells itself that the individual should decide what happens to the decision. That subject is the pregnant woman herself. It doesn't take insight to figure that out. On the other hand, I find it obvious, at least in the discussion, that it has been easier for men to overlook the discussion. But it's what it is. A few minutes ago, he asked why. 5th a.m. Smoke. And thus, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, when the life arose, and called him for a discussion of that matter. I just want to say before I go on, that I have a lot of respect for people who disagree on this matter. I have every respect for people's feelings of sensitivity and personal fireball. That's normal. Things that concern children and children in general are. Very understandable. This is one of our deepest things reality, i.e. to multiply, to have children, to have offspring. It's very personal, it's naturally delicate. However, biology is not always so polite to us to give us some simple answers to such questions as when life begins, and I cannot help but conclude why. Councilmen asking that question are meaning something else. That they are talking about when an organism begins to feel, when it begins to be aware of itself, or about something similar. It is quite philosophically interesting, but it has proved impossible to use the answers to those questions or questions themselves to evaluate that point. This is because there is not one time in which life does exist, but there is not one time point where self - awareness will occur. It's not that clear. I'm sorry, but nature just decided to have this particular subject completely blurred. So we must use something else as a reference to that subject. The point that has been given since an overexcited discussion, so exorcisively deep, material, philosophical, speculation, education and academic work, is the period marked in this bill, by the end of week 22, which is considered the most logical period. I totally understand people have any doubts about that. But somehow this must be done, and we all must agree that we would not permit pregnancy break in the ninth month because we're talking about a baby, I expect. We all agree that we would always allow a pregnancy break, or I suppose, perhaps in the first week, if it's probably someone I haven't noticed, or if I didn't dare say out loud that he's completely against a pregnancy break. It's an endless, gray area like a lot of things in life. Somehow this needs to be, and we need to make decisions based on the best evidence we have of the great question we can have about philosophical questions about when a person is a person, when he is still a part of the pregnant woman. This is a cold conclusion, and it's a logical conclusion. Then I'd like to mention just two other things. It hasn't been touched much here. I want to touch it with the respect I can show it. It's the religious party. At least once or twice, the holiness of life was called. I would have the same comments to that sort of thing; that it is not that simple. It is good and good to accept a religion. Yet, it is also true that Arab religions, such as Christianity, offer very simple answers to very complex questions. Also, I would protest strongly to establish laws that concern people's self - determination rights on religious grounds, no matter what religion they are, it doesn't matter whether it is Christianity or atheism or anything or anything else. So, in my opinion, a religious attitude is not to be involved. It is not our job here to answer such questions. Such questions, however, can be answered personally. I would like to answer those who would like to make that decision on a Christian basis: Fine. Let us trust Christian women to make that decision on their own religious grounds. That is the correct answer to their concerns. Then I come to what it all is all about; our speculation about it, how justified and emotional they may be, about all kinds of situations that arise up to week 22. Such decisions are never better in the hands than the person who is the most likely to make the decision, the woman herself, the pregnant woman. That's what this is about. We don't have to like the decision, we can hate it. It's okay. But that doesn't mean we should take it. That's what it's all about, i.e. who makes the decision, not just who it is. That is why the matter is about the self - determination of women and the freedom of women. Because the alternative is in accordance with local law that someone other than the woman makes the decision. That decision can be positive, i.e. that pregnancy cessation is performed at Week 22. Then it is not the woman who decides, the most qualified individual, who makes the decision. Then I would also like to try to comfort opposers of this bill, since there has been no other experience in which similar changes have been made in the number of pregnancy breakers. There's a very good reason for that. This is because a decision to break a pregnancy is not something that people just take for fun. It is a difficult decision, especially when the pregnancy is so late. I also think it is worth it to mention that in times of need. People have come up here and talked about this deep concern that a woman makes the wrong decision at Week 21 or 22, I feel that members of the council lack the understanding that there is no better choice to make that decision than the person involved at that point. And the only way to disagree is by evaluating the personal right of that person, see the woman, less than her personal opinions. A senator who speaks every once in a while. That's why there's gonna be trouble. Councilmen here for the appeals from others that they are somehow against the self - determination of women. Then they come here and answer such an answer that they do not object to the woman's self - determination. All right. When you talk like that, that's what it sounds like. It's basically a result of talking like this because it's not about what I or any other particular reason. Under some particular circumstances, most people feel that a pregnancy break is required, expected, at most of the most difficult circumstances, but who should make a decision, how to make the decision. That's what it's all about. This bill answers my questions, right? These include Article 4. I don't even have much to say on this subject. I just want to reiterate that I have a lot of respect for people's doubts. I have every respect that this is an emotional matter. So we need to hold on to the princely burden we base our decisions on, whoever is to make every decision. We as a nation, we as a town society, we as individuals. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u152	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a pregnancy break. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I haven't participated in the discussion yet, but that doesn't mean I haven't observed it, like that. It's a very delicate matter, and it's happened to almost everyone who's spoken up about it, and there's nothing odd about it. I was listening to the talks first, and I liked the talk. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson spoke of the rights of the fetus. I've been thinking about it a lot. I agree with that question, and I ask that too, " When will these begin? ' I am also raised to believe in a higher power, and I believe in Jesús Kristur. As a result, it's just really hard for me to discuss this matter, but since I'm up here, it's official. I was going to come up here most of the time to discuss that today's answers came out of nowhere. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson counter to what? paritaprevir Kolbrún Kolmbek of the Year's Árnadóttir spoke to her and began talking about it and named the one he had been at a meeting at the welfare committee as her deputy, who is right. There would have been written questions, 16 of them, from what source. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter and request visitors. Hv. A senator said that the person standing here could not have reasoned on these questions. That's a lot to do. I was not so familiar with them, and I had not watched the matter so much that I could reason with them. I was in there as an understudy. Anna Kolbrún's Árnadóttir, on short notice, had sent these questions in. If there is evidence that the case on the committee could not be discussed, that the person here could not argue on what the questions were, then there is no obligation. I just wanted it to come out here. I was under no obligation to argue, that it should be said. I made it appear at the meeting when I mentioned that I was in general agreeing with this bill. These laws would be then 1975, and most of them agree on the need to reevaluate. The bill has many adjustments that were needed. But I've always put a question mark on what is discussed in the book of Numbers. g., about 22 weeks of repeated discussions, simply because at this time of pregnancy, the embryo becomes viable. There's been a change in plans that come close to what I could accept. I have not taken a direct view that this is the case. I'm not gonna have this much further. I cut it down in my speech anyway. paritaprevir Bristur, the Brynjar of Níelsson, said that regular members of Congress are often reluctant to participate in hot discussions where the persecution and response are intense. I totally admit I'm one of them. I've only been able to do that for a while. It's probably because I have more blood to fight the cold elements and most often out in the ocean over the last few decades, but when it comes to such delicate matters, as we discuss here, I'll be pretty little. I can have opinions about this. I think it's the best thing to do, except for this week number set, 22 weeks. It's sitting by it. I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u153	A respectable president. It will be better for me and the senator to speak during a season than it did earlier today, since I named him from a lock, and he could not answer. The senator noted that it is not his duty to reason on the matter, and it certainly is. In fact, there is a series of emotional revolutions in this case, since it is the very mark of many who here make a sound that there is no reason, but emotions that are suddenly accepted into the discussion, which is not always tested in this hall. However, for a discussion of the self - determination rights of women, the feelings of men in middle age seem to outweigh the reasoning over which the welfare committee considered. It was not an envious situation. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson was put in, being sent 16 questions to a social committee meeting without much preparation. When asked about any new questions, what new information would have been provided since a member of the Central Social Committee agreed on the case to cover two. was no obligation to argue, but since he could not mention one example of new questions that would have to be answered, not one example of new information that needed to be dealt with, of course, the health committee was not obliged to make any further delay in the matter of the committee. There was no significant reason why we held the case longer on the committee, and this was only in line with what the Central Committee's permanent representative found out, along with all of us on April 29th.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'd like to make sure these weren't my questions, but questions as well. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir put in writing and had sent in e - mails. It's just food. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's statement that there was no evidence in the case, and that's why the welfare committee dismissed it. It's his assessment, and I don't necessarily agree with it. In the case of middle - aged men's emotional activities, I'm older than middle age, unless God allows me to be over 120 years old, which I don't expect. We who are older also have feelings. They may also be quite nice, but they have often been received very strangely by certain members of the council, such as the freckles of middle - aged men, who are not entitled to argue if they are very emotional.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u155	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator may be nearly 120 years old, although he may be a full - grown man. Yes, these were not questions of the senator who were brought to the welfare committee meeting, but it is of no importance. The Senator was a spokesman for the questions at that meeting. What would the committee do? Was she to wait until the author of the questions could fit into the meeting? Should the case be delayed because of an understudy? That is not an acceptable plan for the Senate Committee. That's why we asked each other. paritaprevir The Sigurður Páll Jónsson, a middle class member who was present, presented evidence that new guests would need to be called. They needed to include that something had changed since the members of the Central Committee agreed on the matter. It is not just my opinion that they were not brought forward; it was not one example. If the senator feels that he is able to give some sort of example, one of the 16 - question cases, one of 2 francs. Having new information that did not appear in previous discussions or reviews or when visiting, he now has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u156	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I don't have that argument. A senator, but this may well be the case. þm. Kolbrún Colbrow Aarnadótir had that argument, and she's sure to have it. [[Up front.]] I'm not getting involved in whether or not this was a last-minute thing. It was just like this, and I came in there in the first place. A senator in short notice. That was the case, and I wanted to come up here to say that the person standing here is not the beginning and the end of this case was taken out of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u157	Mr. President. Here is a discussion of a proposal for the resolution of a non-employment agreement between EFTA and the Philippines from a greater part of the State Department of State. The committee has discussed the matter and had its meeting with Kristinn F. Árnason, Katrín Einarsdóttir and Davíð Logi Sigurðsson of the Ministry of State, Birna Guðmundsdóttir of the Iceland Department of Amnesty International and Daníel E. Arnarsson of the Association of '78. Then the commission received reviews from the Amnesty International Department of Iceland. The proposal consults the Alleglerary's permission to validate a vacation contract between EFTA and the Philippines signed in Bern, Switzerland, April 28, 2016. The proposal suggests that the nondeduction agreement with the Philippines includes a mutual demolition and a reduction in industrial products, marine products, and the rest of the agricultural and agricultural sectors. In this way, customs on most marine products and industrial products exported from Iceland to the Philippines will fall, as well as on the main agricultural products produced here in the United States for export. The freewill agreement is of the so-called third-generation free trade agreements and contains regulations for the trade trade, trade of services, investments, protection of intellectual rights, public shopping, competitive business and sustainable development, as well as standard regulations for the common committee of the Convention and the solution of issues. Then a report says that the export from Iceland to the Philippines was small, with a total of 30 to 1,300 million. K. every year. In particular, there have been exports of instruments, especially scale and equipment related to soils, as well as small exports of intact macroil. To a considerable extent, Europeans have sold their services and knowledge for research and use of geologic temperatures in the Philippines. In recent years, imports from the Philippines have studied some 3,500 million. K. every year. A mutual delinquency and reduction of tolls provide the basis for the growing trade between countries. The EFTA, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland already have the validated holiday deal with the Philippines, and they went into effect between June 1, 2018. After the office of the president of the country in Duterte Roa, the committee's discussion of the matter and the review of the guests expressed great concern for the situation of human rights in the Philippines. Amnesty International noted that there were extensive violations of human rights on the part and in the name of the Philippines government and that the annual report for the 2017-2018 issue was including the U.S.A. Talk about executions without trial, and in the name of a drug - war campaign, attacks on human rights, restrictions of freedom of expression, torture, and ill - treatment in local prisons. There were different opinions about the right to make a free trade deal with a state where the rights of human rights are as hard as in the Philippines. With simplicity it can be said that on the one hand, a refusal to make such agreements put pressure on a state that violates human rights that can lead to improvement if relevant countries focus on access to foreign markets and indiscriminate international transactions. However, the point of view was that free trade between countries can promote reform in democratic and human rights. Free trade agreements improve the public's interests in treaties and combat isolation policies, as well as the opportunities for such agreements to promote Iceland's position on democracy and human rights. The greater part points out that in the preamble of the treaty, the commitment of the Treaty is to support democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and human rights in accordance with national rights, including the commitment to national rights. in the covenant between the United Nations and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. It should then be noted that a special chapter of the contract deals with business and sustainable development, as has been the custom in recent vacation agreements with EFTA. Convention partners acknowledge that economic development, social and environmental are independent factors supporting mutually in sustainable development. Contracts also stipulate their duties to respect, promote, and implement the principles of fundamental rights found in the ILO declaration of core and rights to work and in its application as adopted by the International Work Programme in 1998. Finally, the majority point out that Iceland's Department of Amnesty International is not opposed to the EFTA and Filipino holiday contract and does not violate the existing convincation agreement. That doesn't make the '78 Synod, either. On the other hand, the International Department of Amnesty International, according to its comments to the Icelandic government, won't use the opportunities available to call attention to the bad state of human rights as they have recently made at the United Nations Human Rights Council, and will encourage immediate improvement, in dealing with governments in the Philippines as well as in international matters that deal with human rights. This encourages the majority of the government to adopt the EFTA and Filipino treaties adopted by the Free Trade Convention to settle matters of human rights when appropriate. The majority suggest that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Logi Einar Einarsson and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir sign this opinion in advance. Foreman Ari, the son of Trausti Guðmundsson, has identified the situation of human rights in the Philippines. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was away from the case, but literature is regarded as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u158	Madam President. Human rights in the Philippines, long history, have been in many ways, as we know, and clearly seen here and many times in the discussion, since this has become an old matter. Human rights now are the least said to be in paralysis, and that's everybody's reputation. I would like to mention that there are differing views of human rights organizations, especially in the Philippines itself, about the benefits of a free trade deal with the present situation. I have serious doubts about this myself, and actually we've talked about and generally wondered about free trade agreements with countries that are defective in our opinion, as if it were human rights matters at meetings that are linked to those vacation contracts. Anyway, I look forward to the long future of the time when the violent rule of men like Duterte is behind me and I hope it will be sooner than later. In doing so, I support this validation and the opinion of the committee. The Foreign Affairs Committee, as mentioned above, is acting in advance on the committee's opinion and has been forced to place great emphasis on the position of human rights and their importance in the Philippines above any other. The model is my attempt to point out that there is a doubt, but we look to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u159	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson did well over the opinion of the committee that I am writing under, but in advance, he makes it appear to be similar to what happened at the end of the day. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Of course, we face a world that builds its future on the fact that nations work together to achieve a greater unity and a kingdom in general dwells increasingly on democracy and human governments. In this matter, we face two possibilities. On the one hand, the view that in such situations, when we make vacation contracts or are contemplating such a state as the Philippines, we should reject and shut them down and try to force them to improve control or to work with more business and communication. In general, I have more faith in the process, thinking that a pretty strong argument is needed not to try it before the rest is done. The commitment of the government to promote democracy and justice and to improve human rights and freedom and to work in harmony with national rights and under the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. They have every right to do so. I think it's quite clear with the situation that it needs to be followed, and that's why I'm warning you that I want to use this opportunity to encourage the government to use their voices. Many times it is evident that even if we are small, our voices are heard and heard. There's a lot of examples, and so I'll just take a few months back in time, I think that it's given a lot of attention to Iceland when it came to the lack of human rights in Saudi Arabia. Iceland has nothing excessive to promote foreign affairs other than democracy, human rights, equality, and that sort of thing. It is, in fact, our only export when it comes to such things, without perhaps loaning the land under munitions from time to time. So I would like to reiterate that I agree with this, but I expect us to speak up when we feel we lack the things we fight for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u160	Madam President. I'm asking for respect for the exchange of the rosary. When the one standing here was a radio lady, there was a good boss there, Broddi Broddason, who taught me never to run in the air or anything else where I had to talk about it and that rule I've used here. We'll discuss a serious case that's a validation of a vacation agreement between EFTA and the Philippines. As Mrs. President pointed out, a smaller part of the foreign matter committee is presented signed on and off. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. I'm going to allow myself to skim over our committee opinion. As noted in the case of the people who have spoken before, there have been great violations of human rights in the Philippines that have led many to pause when it comes to validation of free trade agreements with that nation. An interpretation proposal for the validation of the EFTA Convention of the Philippines is now proposed to the third time at the General Assembly. The reason she hasn't had a trackup is, as I mentioned earlier, a terrible situation in human rights in the Philippines following the election of Rodrigo Duterte on June 30, 2016. Only a few weeks after signing was passed between EFTA and the Philippines's agreement to initiate the validation of the holiday agreement, Duterte was elected president. Iceland is validating a new deal with the state, despite a gross violation of human rights by its leaders shortly after the negotiation table. So the EFTA state was within the ideal circumstances to stop work with the party while waiting for the status of human rights to be improved. Various human rights groups and institutions working in the field of human rights have severely criticized the state of human rights during Duterte's presidency and, if their comments are limited, it is now known that according to the latest official figures in the Philippines, 5,000 people have been killed by police without court and law, especially during a period of 16 months, between July 2016 and November 2017, to the order of President Duterte, who simply encouraged the killings on the streets of drug users and drug dealers. On the other hand, the human rights organization estimated that the number of victims of this political policy is in the range of 12,000,220,000, according to a new article in Guardian, from 3 April 2019, entitled 'Environment Orders of Public Files on Tousands of Dug-war Deaths', by permission of the president. Only a month and a half after Duterte's office of presidents in the Philippines, the United Nations and their experts in human rights authorities in the Philippines challenged national legal and legal systems and made sure that those who had committed crimes against the drug law of the country were to be treated just for Filipino courts. There are two issues at the International Court of Justice in Hague because of the above - mentioned execution without trial and legal action. Duterte responded by simply pulling the Philippines out of the court that upsets the rights of the country's citizens. This has happened in the last few months. In addition to the uncondemned executions and legalisation of the cities of the Philippines during Duterte's presidency, it is noted that a respected human rights organization has made very serious comments to other gross human rights violations taking place in the Philippines. One example is that governments have been under attack on the indigenous population in the time of Duterte. At that time, children have been committed to human rights, but Human Rights Watch even woke up. Focus on child labor in Filipino gold mines. Finally, the gays have been strongly objected to discrimination against homosexuals in the Philippines and others who have been discriminated against by their sexual or sexual orientation and their access to education and other rights in Duterte's time. The increase in homosexual acts since Duterte's reign and the incidence of transwarrant murders is the highest in Southeast Asia. So it is a real challenge to validate this vacation agreement now that the situation of human rights in the Philippines is as bad as it is. In fact, it is incomprehensible to place so much emphasis on the validation of a free trade deal with the country during Duterte's reign and to show no evidence of softening its way of ruling. The minority points out that although Iceland's secretary of state has a new official opportunity to criticize the situation of human rights in the Philippines, it must be a mistake that at the same time Iceland has a precious seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council, it is its goal to validate a non-profit agreement with a state directed by a human rights minister who has publicly criticized a foreign minister. Also, it can be noted that it can hardly be a failure to increase the credibility of a nation by representing the United Nations Child - Court Court of Childhood Committee to validate a social agreement against a land that grossly violates the rights of children, has failed to eliminate child labor, and has recently dropped the criminal age of young people from 15 years to 12 years despite protests of human rights. So, Mr. President, the minority is strongly discouraged from the fact that a vacation contract with the Philippines will be validated by the current right rights position and that the monopoly is expected to wait for Iceland to have its approval until things get better or better. Happily, the Allied Parliament repeatedly rejected the approval of the Congress resolution of free trade due to the mismanagement of human rights in that contract. It happened with an EFTA holiday contract at Colombia. The interpretation proposal of that material was submitted four centuries before she was approved by the Generals. The proposal was finally adopted at 143. In 2014, after the Colombian government had claimed that 720 individuals who were considered at risk had been protected by police and the applications of tens of thousands of victims of land space struggles were in operation. At that time, the Colombian government had set up a serious peace conference with the Colombian Partisans FARC, both in Oslo and Havana, involved in the Cuban and Norwegian government, and a United Nations Human Rights Report showed that there were positive signs of rights and talks of peace in Colombia. A major reason why a free trade deal with Colombia was three times not approved by the General. The employee movement's strong criticism of the extremely poor conditions of human rights and the persecution suffered by unions in Colombia. Advertisers in Norway and Iceland had suggested that a contract with Colombia be made only if all the duties of the country were taken into account to respect the human rights and rights of employees to form and operate unions. The National Association of Iceland repeated its opposition to the free trade agreement and its validation of Colombia, both under the direction of the State Department and at a meeting of the Committee. The same has been true of the National Association of Iceland on the Parliamentary decision to validate free trade agreements with the Philippines. The Community presents a significant question about the validation of the free trade agreement due to the status of human rights in that country and does not recommend the agreed proposal. Commenting on Amnesty International in Iceland, the study of Amnesty International shows that there is widespread violations of human rights on the part of governments in the Philippines and in the name of their government. If we're only going to EFTA regulations, then, of course, we should be able to do that, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, that in its preamble, the parties are committed to respecting democracy, legal regulations, human rights and human rights in accordance with national rights, including principles set out in the covenant of the United Nations and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. It's good, but it's also been criticized. Icelandic senators who believe that these original words are not strong enough and have not been followed closely and have pointed out the need to do so. On the part of Iceland, it must be considered quite hollow to validate a free trade deal with a state that does not respect just what appears in the prehumanities, human rights, and freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights in the Philippines is so serious that when it comes to implementing the contract, it is anticipated that the rights of the agreement will be violated. Therefore, there is reason to reflect on the value of other agreements, especially since the Philippines have already reported on the International Court of Justice to avoid the legal rights. In view of this, it is hardly possible to view the Philippines as a credible party during Duterte's reign. The memory of this opinion also shows that if conditions improve, as happened in Colombia and the terrible situation there, they support, of course, that a vacation contract with the Philippines will be validated. However, we do not feel morally correct in validating a vacation agreement with the Philippines until real reforms of human rights and freedom of the people of the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u161	Mr. President. When a person is in the position to be both a vacation manager and particularly the head of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, a person has a firm belief in the importance of free trades agreements and in the general recovery of partnerships. Nevertheless, I have a minority view of it as a night. paritaprevir That's what Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir was doing. This is because there are a number of other things inside me that would just not be consistent with my convictions if I were to support this vacation contract at this time. In a sense, it is an emotional matter. But I don't like making decisions out of emotion, so I look at the facts a little bit. So I specifically address two of the points presented in my committee study that are, in fact, the main argument against accepting this at this point, apart from natural devastating human rights equipment in the Philippines, is, in fact, two main forms: On the one hand, free moods for free people are a religion in all discussions about the free business. There is not much proof of this ideal. On the other hand, free people seem to be able to make free markets. When society enjoys such captivity, as it is today in the Philippines and has been in recent years, it is not possible to assume that people can pursue free trade in a way that improves their community. Then ask yourself, " Can a vacation store with us improve our community? ' Are we agreeing to this, the words of bacteria, or at least granting silent consent to the violations of human rights? I don't know. It's a moral question that needs someone better informed about ethics than me to answer. At any rate, I feel that open question is obvious, whether we can trust that a vacation contract will help in any way. I'm not aware of any studies that have unequivocally demonstrated that increasing trade results in more freedom and fewer human rights violations. I am aware that studies that have shown that specific movements of the support of the state and democratic support have contributed to a more pronounced business. So you have to say that the way that has gone in the Philippines over the last few years under Dutertes is, in fact, in the opposite direction, reducing the fact that this vacation agreement can do something good. On the other hand, it's my worry. As mentioned in the commission, it is the credibility of the developer. By permission of the president, the holiday contract states that the countries will have their commitment to democracy, justice, human rights, and freedom of human rights in accordance with their national rights, including their commitment to national rights. as shown in the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. Then you have to ask yourself: " If a country, if the government has published it--or perhaps not published it by words--yes, Duterte has precisely stated that he supports mass murder of certain people, but also by his actions and other things. If the government has already shown that this specific provision is of no value to them and that it will not be followed on their part, we will not be able to assume that the other terms of the agreement will also be carried out. As far as the Philippines has gone to the point of reaching out for international cooperation, e.g. The International Court of Justice, once the State has been criticized, leads one to believe that if there were any differences, such as To pay dues on some products from Iceland or even a censorship on the websites of an Icelandic company or whatever they might be, the Filipino's answer would really not be in the spirit of the agreement. In fact, it can be said that the conduct of the Filipino government, under Dutertes, will be only in the spirit of what Duterte once thought of, since that is about what we have seen from the Philippines for the past few years. It may be true to admit that countries do not have a clean slate. It's not that they're perfect. The requirement is that they show minimal effort to improve. We can see that, for example. in the case of a free trade deal with Colombia, where conditions were established and considered in the treatment of the council that they were improving. It was just very normal. It may not always have been like that, e.g. Things have got worse with Turkey in recent years. This may not have been a reason to stop an updated contract on the same basis. It was only an estimate where a contract was already in existence. Even there, though, you might ask yourself: " Is things getting better or worse? Is there a minimum effort to maintain the terms of the contract, especially on human rights? Here, as the committee has tore up my opinion on the matter so I'm not going to delay it much more. I think that in this discussion and discussion of all the vacation contracts, we need to get things straight. On the one hand, we want to increase free shops around the world. We want to make it possible for others to do business and connect and get to know people. But in no way do we want to be an accessory to human rights violations, and we don't want to give dictators or mass killers or others who are in a great and flagrant attack against mankind, a reason to rejoice that they have received some kind of justification on our part. It's not our job. Our role is not to justify the actions of men like Dutertes and the political declaration of the kind of free trade deal and may be interpreted in that way. So I don't support our acceptance of this deal at this time. I support, however, that as the situation in the Philippines looks toward a better outcome, likely when Dutertes' reign is over, that we take this contract back up and accept it and then learn the Filipinos of a good one, as I have done when I've been there. There are plenty of opportunities for further vacations in the Philippines, but I cannot say that it is realistic to enjoy them with a good conscience while this particular massacre is under control. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u162	A respectable president. We'll discuss a contract between EFTA and the Philippines, or, in fact, only between Iceland and the Philippines, where other EFTA countries have signed the contract on their part. I would just like to discuss the opinion of a small percentage of the State Department, which I think is a world of Congress needs to pay close attention, since the people who see this minority party are late accused of being isolationists or opposers of international cooperation. We are referring, on the one hand, to Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörður, who is in charge of the Presidency of the European Parliament and to a Smári Mccarthy, chairman of the EFTA Council. We're talking about people who are very moved by international activity and who know how important it is to have upbuilding communication between countries. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of the president of the EFTA Committee of Congress on this minority opinion, in which a completely justified criticism is presented in the minority opinion of prenatal contracts made by EFTA with various states. I trust that in the light of what happened. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr here in the hall that he will follow this in the Senate Committee, and then we will see some improvement in that field. It's been over here forewords of vacation contracts made by the EFTA countries. This is an addition to negotiations. This is just another one, and it was a positive step at the time that in the preamble, the parties are committed to respecting democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and freedom in accordance with national rights. This is a contract signed before Duterte became king in the Philippines. When he took over and found out that he was headed for being a dog and a tyrant, some warning bells should have arisen from the Filipino treats who have this fine access to their contracts. Then all four EFTA countries would have said, no, heard me now, here perhaps we should stop for a moment, just breathe in the abdomen and see if this is a state we want to raise by making a bargain with. No, it wasn't done at that point. The three EFTA countries have agreed on this contract on their own, and this suggests that Iceland will do the same. Despite the fact that not immediately following the start of Duterte's reign but almost every day of the day, his way of ruling has deteriorated. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned that it doesn't matter, the main thing is not that a state is perfect or quite perfect 100%, but that it showed efforts to improve. Duterte has done the opposite. He has been determined to undermine human rights within the Philippines and at the same time let the EFTA people have something to say. They had nothing to say when the contract was waiting. Still, he was validated by three of them. What has happened since then? Now the deal has been in effect in the other EFTA countries. Has something happened in that area to set on alarm alarms because of worsening conditions in the Philippines? No, it's not. The fact that EFTA has nothing to say about human rights in the Philippines can be seen by reading both the smaller parts and the greater part of the State Department. Here, a number of international groups are quoted. Amnesty and Human Rights Watch are quoted in various other organizations, but there is no human rights watch in EFTA that can tell us whether things are getting better or worse in the Philippines. No, because it is, in the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department, a hole sounds in these preludes of the holiday agreements. This case has been associated with Iceland's state on a international scale because we live in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights. There, the Icelandic government and the highest government have. The minister of foreign affairs repeatedly noted that our hard stand against the Philippines and our criticism of the local government was of great importance to ensure this place of the United States when the U.S. It is hollow to criticize the Philippines with one hand, while it is the right bargaining with the other. Especially when, as noted, it is a violation of financial obligations. There are clear rules and penalties on these violations. There is a crime, and there are entire chapters of this contract on how to deal with capital abuse, but when people's human rights are violated under the same agreement, nothing will be accepted. Because this contract reflects the state of the worldwide system that we expect to be made with a greater measure of speech than the individual. What is suggested by a smaller part of the State Department, and I support, is that this contract will simply be put aside until it can truly be said that it is not morally reprehensible to make a vacation agreement with the Philippines. And that will not happen when we have a tyrant there. Why should Iceland not? For those free trade agreements there are not the same rules as for the implementation of European rules through the EEA Convention. It requires that every state adopt the rule so that the contract is recorded. As mentioned earlier, the three other countries have an active vacation contract with the Philippines based on this document. Iceland doesn't have to do anything to take care of their own. We're not in any way in the way. There's been a press conference in the Philippines where the three countries and the people from the EFTA Free Trade Office have been introduced, decked, and placed on a lot of food and introduced business opportunities in the EFTA countries. It's all in good gear. Iceland does not have to label the Philippines as a suitable government agency so that our EFTA partners can enjoy this vacation agreement, so I will not support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u163	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned what could be done in the field of EFTA. And as for the development of these human rights regulations, I'd like to mention a few things. First, this contract was, of course, finished and signed, not signed, but signed, for the Dutertes'terms. It is natural that matters a great deal about history. At that time and to this day, a standard foreword on human rights is being used, and this is a foreword that has, unfortunately, not had much force. There's a way to make things right. A new section on sustainable development is now being developed that is to be used in the EFTA holiday contracts and into the future. I've put it on the board of the Liechtenstein Commission this summer to discuss what to do with the reality. True, there are very different opinions among the EFTA countries on the importance of human rights matters. Some people just don't want to get them mixed up in business, but at least there's something that can be built on. This new section on sustainable development can be used as a basis for open and better discussions. There was also a discussion on whether some kind of letter could be sent to the Directors of EFTA, requesting that this be adopted by joint committees with regard to the states we are concerned about. There's nothing that's been moving on in this, but I hope that the Foreign Affairs Committee can get along to do that. That would be of great benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u164	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the senator the answer, and especially to bring out the fact that there are conflicting opinions in the EFTA states on whether or not we should be mixing business with better worlds, human rights. Because these conflicting views are not just between us and friends in EFTA. Rather, there are conflicting opinions on this matter here in the hall. Congress officials do not agree on whether to use such agreements to promote our viewpoints about how governments should treat their citizens. I look forward to seeing what's going to happen to the ideas of sustainable development in the future, because there's no one alone there. I know the senator well enough to know that he will exert himself vigorously within the EFTA Committee. I know he will do all he can to make it possible for us to mean things when we say them. That's all it's about. It's about us not destroying ink into some foreword about human rights unless we're going to do something with them. As the senator rightly mentioned in his talk: If we cannot trust them to follow this predestination, why should we trust the Philippines to comply with any of the terms of the agreement? It's just as easy to put it in the shredr and pretend it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u165	Mr. President. I think it's right to defend certain EFTA countries and say that there's a great will to nurture human rights in their states. They may not want to mix it so much. I consider business not to be reserved and different from human rights, but to be part of the normal human interaction of people in human society. So, in my opinion, it's unnatural, and I think it's a common opinion here, separating these things. I believe human rights and business are only very compatible. Sadly, it has not always been common to mix it together, and this discussion always arises. It has been referred often to on the basis of the International Business Organization and in the context of commercial war, i.e. if the carrots and spits are used to wave the yellow root of increased vacation stores in the front of the country and then say, "No, we're not going to do business with you when you do bad things. In that case, it is very easy to get into a situation that allows the spit to be used too much and too freely. This is something that has been often said to e.g. China, who does not have a perfectly clean badge on human rights, and in fact with other countries. I think it's just so with carrots and on its own that it's some kind of balance point. That we can say: No, we are not going to participate now because we do not feel that way. Of course, we are willing to try to promote and strengthen cooperation in the future, especially if people come out better and nurture the rights that we find important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u166	A respectable president. I also wondered when I listened to the senator whether the problem with vacation contracts in the old understanding is not that they are just too tight. Much more than what products we send among the nations, the gathering of the nations goes out. Building up a society of nations is about communication, not business. It's about us changing to save, that we sometimes study in each other's countries, that we travel there, that we know people from there, that we put our faces on nations, even though they're far from us, to know people from there. Businesses are one of the tools that can be used to achieve this success. Business involves communication, but in order for communication to deepen, we need to agree on something more important than goods and money. One of them is human rights, I believe. Another is sustainable development, our common attitude that we need to protect the earth for the future. It is a world problem that is very normal for free trade agreements to take over half the world. It is a conversation that needs to take place everywhere. As I said before, I'm excited to see how it was. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy and the well-wanted members of other EFTA countries that he operates on the Senate Committee are turning this oil vessel, which I think may be called, to put new emphasis on the world's vacation model.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u167	A respectable president. I'm generally in favor of free trade agreements and free business. Here mentioned: Products and money save lives, goods, and money help to ensure people's rights and freedoms. It is money that enables us to give money, e.g. Patches to help. So I view business as essentially a positive phenomenon. I find it very boring to have to be against a vacation contract. But I can't help but be against these, for the simple but moral reasons that I don't feel honest to validate this vacation contract compared with what is presented in the introduction. It contains, by permission of the President, a warrant for this commitment: ▪ Supporting democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and freedom in accordance with their duties as national rights, including in the treaty of the United Nations and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights It is a bad joke, a respectable president, to validate this with Duterte in the Philippines. When I'm going to talk about scurrying and villains like Duterte or Donald Trump or Bolsonaro, who are all brutal and -- here, I'm going to have a problem that I really need to ask a respectable president, what's the worst word I'm allowed to use in a pontu? I'm not going to ask a respectable president for any serious answer because I know that it's an assessment that a respectable president may not want to go to bed right now. I respect that. But I need bad enough words to describe what kind of people we're talking about when we talk about Duterte and similar guys. By chance, all these are guys. Have you noticed? However, as mentioned earlier, in an effort to correct matters, free trade agreements could be viewed as a means of improving the situation in the state of which we are shopping. I think that in some case it could really happen. If we, e.g. we would be coming out of a period where lunatics like Duterte would be in power and in a period of time where they would either be relaxed or someone else would accept, which would likely be in some way different - I think I could support this. But the case is that Duterte is in power, and there is little evidence that it will soon change. If there's anything, he'll just put it in. I think it's so important in the world's atmosphere today that we have maniacs like Donald Trump and Bolsonaro and Duterte that we say no to these guys. That we do not allow them to pretend in some way that they are in power. Whether they were elected or not. Such behavior is simply not acceptable to those men. We're just supposed to say it out loud. We're not supposed to pretend that it's up to us to admit the insanity that goes on in the Philippines to support democracy, legal regulations, human rights, freedom of man. A respectable president. Bad joke, as I say. You can't sign this honestly. I really respect them what they're saying. Councilmen who want to sign in an effort to improve the situation in the Philippines I have respect for it, and I hope they are right. But that requires honesty. It takes them to sign the knowledge that they're signing something that's not true, very clearly not true. [[Up front.]] It's not for me to judge. It's just mine to decide my own vote and I can't in good conscience support this case, as much as I want to. As much as I would like to accept free trade agreements. The only thing that made me doubt--what should one say? I recently wondered if I would support a vacation contract with the United States despite Donald Trump, which is now not quite as terrible as Duterte, mainly because he does not have the authority to carry out all that he can think of in those seconds. Other than that, I don't think there's much limit to what a maniac is willing to do. I haven't seen anything to indicate that there are no limits. There's nothing I can imagine that Donald Trump would do except because the United States is blessed with the formula that a madman could come to power, and that's why maintenance and counterwelvement of a highly established American government system. It is the only thing that can control this evil creature now in power. I wondered, " Shouldn't we agree to a deal with the United States? ' I'd say it's different because we know that Donald Trump is leaving behind sooner or later, in one way or another. As they say to the west of the sea, a respectable president. [[Foreground, I hope.]] Yeah, I hope he's out as soon as possible. But that's because in the United States, I would say that if things were trying to improve, except they're not as bad as Duterte. The authorities are not exactly murdering people on the streets, as they were in the Philippines. To that end, the comparison is unfair. But this is also because the United States is physically different from the government because they have this support and counterweightity because they can negotiate with them and expect them to accept the American system somehow. That it appreciated the introduction to someone. Not as much as you might want, but something. There are some guys here, or there, who read this and then just do differently. People want to do business that looks at this, and maybe they'll pay attention to it. In the Philippines it is simply not the case at the moment. It's just a continue-in-the-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go. There's no evidence that it's going to change. On the contrary, it seems that it will continue to worsen. Under such circumstances, we cannot pretend to be fixing something with this vacation contract. I'm sorry. It would be so wish for a more interesting talk about this vacation contract - which would be nice under other circumstances. Then all I want to do is finish my speech by making it a good thing. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said earlier: "In other circumstances and in the future, when the mad people are considering this to be a reexamination and a bargain with the Philippines, I'm sure. That, in essence, is a positive objective. The deal like that, I don't know better than being nice. It's just these temporary situations that keep me from supporting matters with a clean conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u168	The president must say that he feels that he has a reputation. A senator took care of the princes of foreign countries. First thing. A senator asked for guidance from the president for what is appropriate in this regard will be the thought of a child in his case being used an old Icelandic term for slack men, the term "missy. " You might try to translate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u169	A respectable president. We'll discuss validating a vacation agreement between EFTA and the Philippines. It is true, as mentioned in this case, that this matter is not the first time that this matter is to be discussed at the council Hall or by the hospital. State Department. A respectable president. I'm on the State Department and I'm signing this committee opinion. I just wanted to reiterate it in view of the discussion that has been conducted here, of course, I'm not supporting or measuring the human rights violations that take place in the Philippines, and I'm not supporting the local heads of state Duterte. Whether it is a media organization or a human rights organization, it is totally undisputed to all who have discussed the matter. It's bad, and I really don't support it or any of the people who sign this opinion. On the other hand, I believe that free trade treats in general are good. They can improve the interests of the public in the treaties and work against isolation policy. In addition, treaties like these and opportunities to make a decision. I'd like to mention, sir, a respectable president, because there's a why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, president of Iceland's EFTA, U.S. Senate Department - Yes, the Senate bath, is just past the evening - that we have both discussed in this Senate Hall and on the Committee the importance of this recording at that point and that EFTA used some weight in this discussion. [[Set up in the House of Congress.]] I also think it's important that I think most people are aware, I'm pretty sure that Duterte is very aware that Iceland's foreign minister has criticized, not just once and not just twice, human rights violations that occur in the Philippines. That voice must always be heard. The reason I agree that we validate this agreement -- perhaps because we support the case is a little old and the other EFTA countries, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland - is that we feel that it is a better option and can possibly lead to greater communication and that it is the people and the people in this country for the benefit of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u170	A respectable president. I'd like to present a committee opinion with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, with subsequent changes, a review of the contract on the conditions of sheep culture and prices of balance costs. It's from a large part of the job committee. The Commission has discussed the situation and has been contacted by a seafood and agricultural minister to meet us for a total of 11 people from the Ministry, with Iceland's Farms Association, by the National Association of Sheeps, the Matronauties and the Marketing Associations and Services, the Conspiracies and the National Conference of Iceland. The committee received six reviews, and the bill suggests changes in agricultural regulations aimed at agreeing to the change in the work conditions of sheep raising under January 11, 2019. These changes include: the production of national agreements to assess and define the needs and demand of domestic markets for sheep and flocks offers to create adaptation agreements that enable them to build new habitats and farming practices on their soils. The aim is to contribute to the steady supply and market demand with sheep products, to increase the freedom of sheep farmers, and to facilitate adaptation. This meeting is part of a review of the contract on the conditions of sheep farmers from February 19, 2016, and it was signed in advance to the General's approval of the needed law change and the approval of the National Association of Sheep and Iceland's Bavour Association for a vote. The vote was held among members in March 2019, and the contract was adopted by 68% of terms of pay, which is now fairly safe. The committee generally showed pleasure by the proposed change in agricultural products. This change is considered to serve the interests of the article well, with the objective of improving the work programme, including by making it easier for sheep to cope with fluctuations in the outer and inner parts of the article. The reviews gave a view of the planned demolition at 85 C.E. A, the price balance of the export of full domestic products would allow the competitiveness of the enterprises producing agricultural products. It would be better to simplify the procedure and make it possible for others to use the resources as well as to increase the State's contribution to the jury. The greater part points out that the bill's report shows that the total amount of money available in 2019 is 2.5 million. Thus, the amount is negligible each year. Further, it is noted that measures have been taken to reduce new milk and skimming powder for food production in this country and are unnecessary. The committee was advised that farmers were required to submit legal records so that reporting is conditional for the payment of support payments according to the directive. The majority agree with this view and therefore contributes to a change of 3 mg. 30. g. The law. A greater proportion of these changes are being made to support the sheep flock and help to strengthen the support of their livestock. In this way sheepfolds are given additional freedoms to control their living in a way that is most suitable for them and to promote more practicality in this article. So the majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes. 1st The Newcomer's explanation of 1st par. Put it this way: A newborn is a person, who is 18 to 1940 years old in the year when he wishes for support and is buying a farm or a share in a household for the first time, or who has rented or purchased farms in three recent years since January 1 during the year of application. 2. After 1st. A new article, as follows: Following the words "Uzekiel " at 3mgs 30. g. The law says: participate in a legal report with adequate submission, which is further defined in the Regulation. 3. We're on 2. a. Instead of the date 6:1. September ◯ enter a-party: June 1st. Turn this to the payment goal. b. Adds a new letter, which becomes b-joints, as follows: tel: transfer. c. Instead of the words "borrows, " the 3rd proverb. b-aheads come: for purchase. e. to the 3rd matter b-authority is added: and the definitions of such groups should be implemented in the Regulation. ... 4th issue of the b-joins will be removed. 4. Section 8. put it this way: This law goes into force on January 1, 2020, except for the guidelines of Article 3. which translates into force on 1 June 2019 and on the terms of the c-jaws 3. and 8th pars. of September 1st, 2019. Under these publications the committees of the Professional Committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, chairman of this office, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarson Proppé, Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigurður, Jónsson, all of whom have been known. Councilmen on the pro board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u171	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the case for her review of the committee opinion. I'd like to add a little bit to this matter. It is very important that the agreements on conditions in sheep farms have been revised, and this is a deal of great agreements in this article itself. Since last year, there has been work to achieve a new agreement, which was achieved in January, between the State, and the Land Association of Sheep. Since then, there has been a presentation and then a vote for the article itself. True, everyone is never satisfied, as it goes, but there is still a much greater proportion that agreed on this agreement, over 68%, and considered pretty good. When such agreements are reached in the article itself, it may not be possible for the General to make a big deal with them. The changes here, therefore, are not much in themselves. However, certain factors have been taken into account, such as speeding up the date of change of payment. It was to be banned from September 1, 2018, but it is rushed to June 1, 2019. I think that's to meet certain viewpoints in the article that matter. Otherwise, this contract will show both the change that there will be made in this domestic area to assess and define the needs and demand of domestic markets for sheep and that sheepfolds offer to make adaptation agreements that enable them to build new habitats and farming practices on their soils. Clearly, that is important. These are difficult times for the article. There are many challenges regarding the expected increase in meat import. This article has been having difficulty achieving sufficient profits from its production as well as opportunities for innovation and generation change on farms. These are all the things the article has been dealing with, trying to ensure that there will be generation change, and people look to various factors that could strengthen the article, to continue living on earth, and to go to some of the sides of their living quarters. I think this bill that we're here to discuss and the Commission opinion that came out of the work of the Committee after her work for 2nd. is a big step in the right direction. We just need to continue working with this article, which is of great importance to us to continue growing up and developing, and to have opportunities like other sectors of the country and to raise up young people who are benefiting from rural development and farming, whether in sheep's farm or in other habitats.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u172	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The General and Education Committee for the 2nd. for the bill of the song on communication advisers of sports and youth service. You can find the nominee on the roof. 1460 and the requested changes to the deck. 1461, which I read here because I will review the suggestions found in committees and the changes proposed by the committee. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by representatives from the Ministry of Education and Culture, Department of Justice, Children's Health, Children's Childhood, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, Iceland's Teenage Association, the National Development and Olympic Association of Iceland, the Union of Icelandic Company, KFUM and KFUK, the European Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, Children's Council of Work, the Young People's Council of Association, and the Children's Advisory. The committee received reviews from Iceland's Children's Institute of Child Welfare, the National Institute of Development and Olympics of Iceland, KFUM and KFUK in Iceland, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, Percontinental Protection, the Union of Iceland's Office, the Children's Advisor, the Young Peoples Association of Iceland and the National Institutes, as well as the Commission called it specifically for state prosecutor information. The bill suggests a temporary establishment of a communication worker for the activities of sports and youth personnel whose primary role should be to improve the quality of sports and social services by promoting the safety of those involved in the work of their organisations and partners involved in this work. I think we all remember, a respectable president, by striking descriptions of a number of athletes under # I like. As a result, they ordered the highest order. Ministers of a working group and this bill work on the basis of the work that was carried out in that group and is in order to contribute to the safety of those who participate in youth and sports activities. The committee discussed a number of relevant issues, including role and reporting, neutrality, and access to the service and assistance of the communication counselor, as well as access to bodies under sports law, No. 64/1998, criminal records, location of representatives, and other issues associated with this bill. Apparently, there was no effective consultation with children and youths in the processing of the bill. So the committee specifically called a representative of the child's body and agent, as I turned to the entrance, and it proved to be of great benefit. The committee has the need to consider matters such as these that directly affect the play and activities of children and young people that in early stages of work, they are specifically sought for their viewpoints. Hence, the committee is directed to the government to consider such discussions, particularly in the matters that concern their interests. In 1st. The bill is based on the value of the bill, but it states that the field of communication counselees of sports and youth services includes organized activities by Iceland's National Development and Olympic Association, Iceland's Teenage Society, the youth - oriented organisations that work on the basis of childhood nationalities and organisations making a deal with the Ministry of Development and Youth for the Work Programme due to comparable activities. According to number two, par. The bill is, uh... it's... it's even... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's the bill. the role of the contact counselor to guide those who consult him for incidents or offenses that have occurred in the organized activities of partners and organizations under these laws, or in the context of the measures offered, how complaint is introduced to the right authorities, and after experiences of the services offered by the state and community. The report on the bill then shows that it is important that the communication counselor's instructions include both incidents in and about the activities of those under law. In this way, laws also reach out to those outside the organized business. This means that the law will also cover what happens on spare time. In the opinion of the Committee, the guidelines given by the communication counselor are Article 5. The bill is far superior to the range of 1st par. It is. That's the 2nd count. The bill for organized work, as well as for what happens outside of it, but the field of work for the communication counselor according to Article 1. reaches only organized activities. The Commission agrees with the opinion that it is important that the communication adviser's field also includes events related to planning and thus suggests changes in 1st paragraph. the bill so that the counselor's field of work will also include those outside organized work, and at the same time the agreement between Article 1 will be guaranteed. And number two. The bill. Il. chapter 4 of the bill discusses the work of communication counselors and in Article 4. that it's a temporary job. In 1st. Section 4. The bill says that a minister will set up the work of a communication consultant for sports and youth service until he is five years old. After January 1, 1923, a minister can cancel the work of a communication counselor for sports and youth service at the hands of stakeholders. The committee proposes the 2nd case 1st. Section 4. The bill will be removed. This is contained in the 2nd number as a separate change in the carton, namely. 1461. Rather, it will be a new provisional arrangement, contained in the same Senate document, which includes the setting sunsherder. At the same time, the Committee proposes the correction that will be based on January 1, 2024, in view of the fact that a minister will hire a five - year - old contact counselor, not for four years. The correction is found in the 8th deck. 1461. The committee stresses that with the bill this is a response to a particular problem that has been faced in sports and youth work and that it is urgent to respond. The committee also noted that although a temporary job is involved, it is necessary to reevaluate this challenge with the experience and knowledge that it has developed, and to see if further adjustments are needed if a minister is to support the communication adviser's work. The committee therefore suggests that the provision of the provisional law will also be reviewed after January 1, 2024. At the same time, a minister of experience may decide whether to lower the work of the contact counselor, secure the job, or implement other means of security for those who are engaged in sports and youth activities. In Comb 4. The bill is also required by the education of communication counselors in sports and youth. Two. Section 4. it is stated that a communication counselor should have a university education and knowledge that is useful. In the treatment of the case of the committee, the importance of a communication worker with sports and youth personnel had education in the field of human rights, social advisers, psychology, and knowledge of the affairs and rights of children. The committee agrees that there is a work that needs to be handled in large and large areas. This leads to a wide range of experience and knowledge, so it is important for the individual to have a university education and knowledge that is useful in the work. However, in view of the Commission's opinion, specific requirements for the work are more likely to be shown in an advertisement when the job is advertised. There were some reports on child protection and/or suspected criminal behaviour. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that the special announcement required for child protection in Article 5. The bill involved in the role of the contact counselor and the reference to child protection law in this context. Then the commission was also shown the importance of ensuring that study interests would not go into courts because of the presence of contact counselors in the event of a possible criminal act against a child. Thus, the contact counselor must always consider getting information to the government immediately, such as child - welfare authorities and/or police officers. In the 5th. The main focus of the bill is the role of the contact counselor in his work. The committee claims that his role includes adults. Seven. However, the bill is specifically discussed on the silence of the communication counselor and has to be made known that silence does not cover events to be reported according to law, e.g. when reporting is under child protection law, No. 80/2002. Hence, the committee does not consider it a reason to issue the announcement in Article 5. The bill. However, the committee agrees with the view that in the case of possible criminal behavior against a child, the need to ensure that information reaches the right of the government. So the committee proposes at 2nd. 7. The bill will have the obligation of the communication counselor to communicate the incident to the competent authorities. That adjustment, a respected president, is found in a threshing floor. 1461, in the number 5.c, which says: "In that case, the communication counselor is obliged to communicate information about incidents or discrepancies with the local authorities. The Committee gave a perspective on the importance of counselling the communication counselor on preventive measures to reduce the risk of such an incident and failure as described in Article 3. The bill, an exposé, would appear, such as a discussion on processes that create a common understanding of the unacceptable behavior. In the bill, however, the main focus would be on the response to events and mistakes that have already taken place. In the opinion of the Committee, 1st is 2 mg. Section 5. In a sense, the bill on preventative measures. The Commission agrees, however, that the role of the communication counselor can be considered as a protection. Therefore, the committee suggests that there is an added number that suggests that the communication adviser is for advice on preventive activities in youth and sports. This change can be seen in the 1461, 4th stipulation, which says: 'Counsel advice to those participating in the activities of partners and organizations that are subject to this prevention principle.' The committee emphasized the importance of this transformation. Seven. The bill discusses the confidentiality of the communication counselor. Second mg. 7. it is decreed that the consent of the one looking for him and of the incident of the chief of staff solves the communication counseler for sports and youth service under the obligation of silence. According to a report at 7 st. The bill shows that the article is put in such a way that if a child is not accepted at any age, he should never be given an exception to silence, and if he is allowed to give the child appropriate assistance in some way. In view of the above, the commission pointed out that the report was clearer and went beyond the text of the bill on this point. Thus, the command should be made that the approval of the child to be accepted and, after events by a guardian, be required to give a reserve of silence. It might be assumed that in some cases it would not be the child himself who turned to the communication counselor but someone else on behalf of him. It would thus be possible to make an understanding of the agreement of the contact counselor to resolve the confidentiality and the subsequent events of the guardian but not of the child to be involved. The committee points out that children, adolescents, and adults can consult the communication counselor. Code two. 7. the approval of those who consult the communication counselor is therefore not only to children or young ones but also to adults. The principle is more clear in the case of children. The committee points out that if the law is stated only under the circumstances of a child, then, for example, it can be done. Adult practicers who consult the communication counselor did not agree to release their confidentiality to their adviser. Hence, the committee feels that there is no need for a change in the set of rules, but it considers that the explanation for the discussion in these topics is for the completion of the law. The committee also stresses that the person who consults the child's contact counselor cannot release the counselor's confidentiality, but he needs the approval of the child involved, and after the events of the guardian. Then the commission was made aware that the terms "foresee " or" foreview " are generally used as a substitute for the term "supervisor's. " In order to maintain harmony in the terms used in the legislation, the Committee also suggests a modification of 2 mg. 7. The bill. Once again, I'll show you. 1461, the number 5.a, which says: ▪ Instead of the word ◯foreman, in the 1st speech, 2 mgr. come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Count 5.b. goes on to say: "After the word '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '--' '--' followed the term '- 2s. come: or make a mistake: In addition, the committee suggests adjustments in wording to be consistent with the words of other laws and the changes applied in consideration of Article 5. The bill. The committee was pointed to a so - called Youth scene, which is the cooperation site of KFUM and KFUK in Iceland, the Union of Iceland's Union, the National Institute of Youth, and the National Accident Control Association. The field of youth is working on the common interests of children and young people in sports and youth. At these sites, there have been some of them. has been created to report harassment or sexual harassment or abuse, but such issues are being carried out by neutral professional advice. Many tasks entrusted to a communication counselor with the bill would be the same as those performed in the Youth scene. In view of this work, the committee suggested that the contact counselor be located in the youth field so that he could have access to all that work on these topics and could use it as a basis for his work. On the other hand, a viewpoint was presented that a communication adviser for sports and youth activities was a neutral professional. It would be important to establish a measure of neutrality and trust so that the sea would be covered with interest care and a relationship that could be tolerated when reporting any unwanted behavior or incident. The committee feels that it is important that when preparing a communication worker's work, they will consult with the youth scene and be considered the possibility of building on the experiences that have developed there. However, the assessment by the Committee is that it is necessary to highlight the neutrality of the communication counselor, so the Committee does not consider it desirable for the counselor to be located by members or organisations to which the bill is to cover. The Commission therefore points to the Ministry of Education and Culture to guide them in the setting of more detailed rules on the work of the communication counselor, i.e. about the location of the job, as in Article 8. The bill. Then the commission suggests a change to 8. In order that a minister should put in command, the Commission considers that further implementation of the work is necessary. The Commission also points to the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that the communication counselor can seek support or advice at his job, especially in the early stages. In this context, the Commission also points out that, according to a proposal for a conference resolution of a 2019,2022 strategy on action against violence and its consequences, all school schools and sports and youth services are scheduled to be implemented. That's Operation A.4. in that suggestion. The Commission aims at the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure harmonization between this bill and the procedure and to see if there is any basis for linking both parties together. These suggestions may have been discussed in the Committee. Eight. magazines on available services and assistance. In the treatment of the situation, there was a perspective on the importance of ensuring that the service and assistance provided by the communication counselor will be especially available to children and adolescents, while at the same time such a bioavailability will be simple and that there is clear evidence of how it should be handled. It was thus discussed the possibility that youths could communicate with their communication counselor electronically, such as online chats, or by sending anonymous inquiries, while also having the possibility of being able to arrive without booking time. At the same time, there was a view that a communication counselor could handle all the tasks entrusted to him under the bill. The committee agrees with the opinion that simple access to children and adolescents is necessary, as well as electronic communication. This committee therefore points to the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that this will be and that the above views will be considered. This is an example of how helpful it was to invite and consult with the Children's Children and Youth Council, the Association and the Children's Agent. There were many ideas, and that conversation proved to be of great benefit to the committee in the processing of this case, a respectable president. That's why the committee suggests a change of eight. the bill that the Minister shall be in accordance with Regulation, including make further rules about the procedure of the counselor. This adjustment can be found in the sixth count of sk.1461. The committee considers it legitimate whether one contact counselor can produce a work that involves the vast range of sports and youth. Therefore, the Commission aims to investigate immediately in preparation for the implementation of the law on whether there is a basis for increasing the number of communications advisers to ensure that the role of the communication counselor can be performed according to Article 5. The bill. Then the Committee will also refer to the Ministry to review the above regularly when the communication counselor gives a yearly report to the minister for his work, as 2 mgr. Section 6. the bill, but there should be more experience in the job and more information on the communication worker's job and the reports that have received him. In the 9th. The bill is suggested to gain the value of the law on April 1, 2019. The committee points out that there will be a change in the terms of the bill. The Committee believes that the price of the Ministry of Education and Culture will be sufficient to prepare the hearing of the law, including to organise the work, hire for the job, or hide the person to take over the job and take up the job. According to this, the Committee suggested that the law be valid on August 1, 2018, but that provision for temporary I take effect immediately. There was a talk on 9th. The bill that makes a change in sports games, No. 64/1998. Comments on the law show that it is forbidden to employ or obtain volunteers who have been convicted of sexual abuse according to XXII. in the general penal code. The same applies to those who have been punished for violations of legal laws on addiction and drugs, No. 65/1974, over the last five years. This law includes employees, contractors, and volunteers. The head of the members who agree to the regulations of the bill and who perform sports jobs is entitled to information from a criminal record to whether a certain person who intends to work on their behalf, whether it is a paid job or a volunteer job, has been judged on the basis of the above violations, according to his consent. The committee was told that a vast number of individuals were involved in sports and youth activities. However, not all activities involve intimacy with practicers. Therefore, it would be important for the law to be effective, thus ensuring easy processing and access to criminal information, e.g. electronically. There was also evidence that it was unclear why both proofs of good conduct and evidence from a criminal record were asked. In addition, perspectives on the need for a moderate outcome from volunteer work were observed. Thus, it would be a step further in excluding individuals from work and volunteers than in youth law, No. 70/2007. It's 4 mg. 10th par. Patriarchs have the right to inform members of a criminal record as to whether a certain individual who has applied for their work to care for children and young people under the age of 18 in their youth service was judged on the grounds of a given violation of his consent. The committee calls attention to the fact that in the childhood laws, children and young people 18 years of age and less than 9. The bill includes all sports functions regardless of age. There is no requirement for proof of good conduct in youth; it is merely the right to obtain information from a criminal record that allows the candidate to accept it. The committee considers it desirable to harmonize wording with Article 9. The bill for the Youth Act and suggests changes in its content. When these changes are found in the number 7 on the deck. 1461. Therefore, in view of this, it should be sufficient for the head of the Member States to agree with Article 9. the bill and the sports job, get information from a criminal record on the individuals who apply to do the work of children and young people 18 years of age and younger. The committee also feels that it would be desirable to set this standard, as it would put a lot of pressure on the state prosecutor's office if information about all sports workers is provided, but it can also be made up of comments of 9 g. The bill that the purpose of obtaining this information is to protect young ones and put their interests first. In addition, it is important for the committee to make a special agreement between the individual who receives information. The Commission noted that in a proposal to conclude a plan for the 2019◯22022 on action against violence and its consequences (409th case) it is assumed that a team will be appointed to be assigned to identify existing sources and members of society who work with children to collect information from the criminal record and to assess the need for potential reforms, which is marked by B.3. in that matter. Then there is the possibility that electronic solutions on access to a criminal record that has only access to a so - called private certificate, such as Article 8. The rules of the State Attorney No. 680/2009, of the criminal record of the state. The committee considers it important to continue to examine electronic solutions or solutions that can greatly simplify the procedure during the prior procedure B.3. in a synonym to action against violence, as well as to see if there is a possibility that such solutions will include more types of criminal evidence and/or evidence from a criminal record. No consultation seems to have been made with the Ministry of Justice and State Attorney on the grounds of Article 9. The bill. The Committee highlights consultation within the Council of Management Board when a bill has something to do with other advisers' issues, as in this case, as well as with a professional member within the system, when appropriate. In the treatment of the situation, there was a view to whether support for sports and youth should be made to organizations that would have made an equal and security program in their work, how to deal with issues related to harassment and violence, and how to work according to the United Nations Children's Convention. The committee points out that similar views have been discussed on a 409 case, a proposal for a synopsis of the 2019◯2022 strategy for action against violence and its consequences. Operation A.3 is scheduled. which deals with quality requirements and proof of exemplary activities in youth and sports. A paper with this synonym shows that it is important to set public standards and criteria for equality and healthy communication in which violence cannot survive. It shows that it is particularly important to follow up on effective monitoring criteria and establish central certification. There is a need to consider the possibility of halting public contributions to enterprises that do not meet the quality requirements and putting the clear principles of the material into all agreements. The commission is to be called after extensive consultation on the basis of the above views. The committee also emphasizes the importance of providing the children's covenant with the future work. In addition, the committee suggests a few minor changes in wording on Article 2. The bill, its objective, for correction and explanations. Is found in the number 2 of them. 1461. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in this special Senate document that I have mentioned so many times in the talk, No. 1461, and I've been really good here. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was absent from the case. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Páll Magnússon, president of the past. General and Education Committee, Willum Thor Thor Þór Þórsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir Ármannsson, Guðmundur And Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Árnadóttir Thurna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u173	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The General and Education Committee for this work that I see has been very thorough and I intend to thank you too. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the very detailed history of this committee. I think that on the basis of this, it's a very good thing to do, and as the manager came in, this is a result of the #meto revolution and the terrible stories we've been given about sports society. I just wanted to come up here and give special commendation to the committee for dealing with children and young people. I think it is entirely exemplary that the committee called for such a discussion. I think it's very important that members of Congress do more of this. Of course, we're supposed to do it everywhere, and so are we at the Board of Directors. How important it is, too, that there is not what can be called mere formalities but real communication where children and young people receive a voice and get opinions on the subject. What I wanted to say, and I may therefore only refer to the representatives in the hall and sit on a full-scale and educational committee, made known to the proof of good conduct. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson made it clear that the committee proposed a change to the youth law, and I think it's good. Nevertheless, I wondered, a respectable president, and I have also mentioned it when discussing matters related to the schools, whether this is carried out in all cases, despite the legal authority, i.e. whether or not they call for proof of good conduct when hired by employees, whether in preschool, elementary school, high school, or at sports companies or any group that falls under the childhood laws. I would also like to ask myself, " If I am called by proof of good conduct but the person who has a job to deal with the legal requirements we are specifically referring to, surely is there a process that makes it known to the institution? ' Because there is only a discussion with the Ministry of Justice and the State Attorney, and it is a good hearing for the Committee to emphasize the importance of consultation on these factors. Then I think it's important that we keep this up and make sure it's being followed forever. And if the employee breaks off, there is a clear message that gets in to that partner or school, that can also be true in those cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u174	A respectable president. I'd like to have a little chat with the senator about the discussions with children she came in with. Because I think it's important that we have had that on this matter, and that's something that we're following along on the council committees. In this winter, I remember our calling to young people, e.g. when we changed the children's agent's law on this case and on the case referred to by a messenger, which is a matter of action against violence for the next few years. I'm here making a sound to be told that this is something that we should start to be more careful with. It's usually been very good for us. The young men we receive at the meeting of the committees are very impressive and have a clear perspective on matters and have important inputs that benefit us from the progress of the situation. But what we've come to realize is that we, as members of a Senate committee, are a wrong environment for people. It's just for people in general who don't need to appear to the Senate committee, they're the committee's rooms and these environments, they're almost threatening. When we talk about people who may have no experience in arriving before a Senate committee, this may be quite unpleasant. It's our experience why. I believe that in the winter, I believe that we need to establish specific guidelines on how committees prepare the groups of young people who attend the committee meetings, how spokesmen work beforehand with the person, and then we as a group create an environment that is receptive to the message we are calling on. Because we want this to be a positive experience for the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with that. And where I have, like a dog. A senator, representing children here at the council, has given me the opportunity to meet with the wonderful youth councils, to form an agent of children's children, children's boyfriends, and UNICEF. There are very powerful individuals who have been trained to express their views and to gather young viewpoints. I think it's important, I agree. It may well be, and I think to why. A senator would be right to appear before a Senate committee, perhaps not all of them. We may need to adjust our slightly softening appearance and train people to do so only. But I want to reiterate it, and it's very important that after having spoken with children and young people who have participated in such activities, they will definitely come on their terms, that they are not controlled by some adult with instructions that it would be a good idea to say this or that. It's such an important thing. Once again, I say, I think it's a perfectly good example for the General and Education Committee in this case as well as for anyone else. A senator mentioned, and I believe, as well. A senator, that we should do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u176	V.E.G. President. We talk about alcohol in a camp or, as someone said, burning wine is a camp. Is this a continuation of 1st? Which was here a while ago. I would like to quote only the reviews I was reading, which are actually from 2017. In fact, nothing has really changed since then. So I'm going to read from these comments a little bit. I'm here first with a review from zero percent of the movement. It's a abstinence organization. By permission of the President: According to the World Health Organization, alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for public health. The financial cost of alcohol consumption, including alcohol consumption, is shown in many areas. For example, in the health, law enforcement and justice systems, the insurance systems, and the commercial systems. To minimize the influence of individuals, children, families, closer to society, and the rest of society. A recent book in which leading alcohol and drug scientists compiled the available data from alcohol and drug studies found that increasing bioavailability/exploitation of alcohol results in increased consumption. Of this, it is clear that alcohol is not a standard commercial product that can be discussed and placed only in a market and business context. It shows that alcohol is no ordinary product. That's what I'm saying. So I came into my speech here earlier that alcohol is not just a product but a mental changer. It is also an addictive substance. As a result, they cannot be considered normal products. It has been said of those who follow this issue to get alcohol into the grocery store and other things, that we should not be overly concerned. It is so strange, though, that many things are borne on our table here at the High General Assembly, and some of them may be classified as "foreseers. " I share it for this reason because of the fact that alcohol is addictive, mind - changing material. I'd just like to quote another report from the state's alcohol and tobacco trade by permission of a president: To help control the harmful effects of alcohol, this should be referred to a 2014 policy, in alcohol - and - alcohol prevention policies to 2020, but among active measures, alcohol control is required by price, private sales by state and high age limits to buy alcohol. Indeed, studies show that the business of government monopolitans is one of the most important elements of a conservative alcoholism. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), it is strongly emphasized that policy and action should be based on scientific conclusions and public health standards at all times in the foreground. It puts it this way: ▪ Through established and practical measures, the harmful effects of alcohol and other drugs can be reduced to the individual and to the community as well as to ensure the well - being of a community where everyone is created the best initiative. Policy and policy measures should be based on the best available scientific data on efficiency and efficiency. If scientific data do not determine opinions, be careful and take the lead in promoting the health and well - being of people. So many were words. V.E.G. Mr. President, I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u177	V.E.G. President. Saling alcohol in private commodities would not be a career for an Icelandic country. In many lands the production and sale of alcohol are a source of revenue for farmers, producers, advertising agencies, media operators, and investors. Alcohol is also commercial. It's a profit of currency on account of exports and state funds through the pressures of alcohol expenditure. Thus, alcohol is economicly important, but the benefits of selling and producing alcohol are expensive to society. Some years ago, a high - quality board of directors of the Northern Council took a close look at data from a number of researchers. Following that view, the commission agreed to make a suggestion, which became the official policy of the Council of the North, with the expectation that it would be followed by the Norwegian states. In this area, the Icelandic government decided to set over-targets in alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020. One goal was to limit access to alcohol and other substances. Thus, a bill is a complete disconcerting of government policy. The package leaflets with the proposal of the National Health Committee clearly show that bioavailability is important for consumption, including the consumption of young people. Sadly, prevention is also thought to be less important than the general population. In order to be fair when it comes to a planned bill, more money is expected to be taken in advance. Good thinking, but unfortunately, it will not serve its purpose if we examine the results of the above - mentioned tests on these factors. But what is said to matter most about consumption is the following: First, the transfer of taxes to alcohol, secondly, the State's liquor store, thirdly a rating, fourthly limited access, i.e. limited number of sale sites and opening times. Fifthly, direct and indirect marketing restrictions, sixthly relative to driving under the influence of 0.5 or 0.2◯ and visible and unexpected follow-up by law enforcement personnel. Finally, advice on health care and intensive treatment is given to those dependent on alcohol. The surgeon general has, among other things, an official of surgeons. It is noted that as alcohol consumption increases, community costs, which are consistent with foreign research and statistics. The association between alcohol abuse and injury is clear and clear, especially in cases of violence, traffic accidents, or other accidents. According to the World Health Organization, in the year 2000, 4% of all deaths and disability were caused by alcohol. Alcohol thus proved to be the fifth most harmful risk factor in the 26 surveyed. The figures show that alcohol causes as much health damage as tobacco, but there is a possibility that tobacco could be less harmful, since it is considerably less likely that a smoker would be responsible for e.g. Car accident, physical violence, or an accident yourself, compared to a person who is drinking or who is under the influence of other drugs. Over the past few years, there has been a targeted effort to make tobacco less visible in stores, to prevent access to it as well as to improve label on a package indicating the health and danger of safety. Similar information is not marked on bottles of alcohol. It has been observed that one of the best ways to stop alcohol use is to limit its sales to specific places and checks, similar to what is being done in Iceland today. In addition, foreign studies, including dyslexia, have also been conducted. research, which the National Council's Health Committee has used in its work, as I have mentioned, suggests that with increasing access to alcohol, alcohol consumption and alcohol - related road accidents have increased, as well as increasing violence. There is also a link between alcohol, sleep, and university performance. Drinking alcohol can have a significant effect on the duration of sleep and sleep disorders and alcohol consumption has a significant effect on the grades and academic outcomes. Therefore, the conclusive results of a number of existing international studies all in the same direction, i.e. an increase in alcohol consumption and an increase in alcohol consumption, as well as an increase in alcohol consumption. We're in a hurry. Madam President. I'm gonna come in for a little bit. Socially expensive. Since alcohol sales have been suggested to be done in stores rather than on government grounds, the cost of personal sales has been investigated. Research and articles of this material are based on data from various countries of the United States. It shows that when the State sold alcohol, alcohol consumption was about 123/45% lower. So she increased by this percentage by going to the store in her own time. There's strong evidence that the state is a more responsible source of alcohol than private sources and possibly less motivation for marketing and demonstrations when selling at the hands of the State. Then there is another study from Canada. It included assessments of the social cost of personalizing with alcohol sales. An analysis was made that if the entire Canadian state were to pursue a private supply of alcohol, alcohol consumption would increase by 10◯20%. We can easily transfer these numbers to ourselves. They're all the same, whether they live in Iceland or Canada. Would that be a step in the right direction? I'm sure that's not the case. In discussions with the case at the General Assembly, there have been valid reasons for my opinion that the services to the citizens of the country that want to shop in alcohol will not improve, we accept an existing bill. Not at all. There is an overwhelming chance that the use of alcohol will be reduced and the price will rise. The number of stores selling alcohol will also be reduced. As far as I can hear, when I discuss these matters with people living in the country or in the more scattered areas, let's say that they are content with the current alcohol trades and will not change them. So it is not that there is a demand for changes in alcohol sales laws in people, especially in the more scattered areas, and actually in a very small number of Icelanders when further checked, at least the surveys carried out in the later years where it is asked. It is evident, therefore, that with the contributions of this bill, the public interests of the country are not being cared for, either for health and social benefits, if permitted, or for services to the people throughout the country. In fact, I do not see a single advantage of this transformation unless it remains that I do not provide extra money for the prevention. As mentioned earlier, the problem is that such measures have very little effect on consumption. Then, of course, we might as well give extra money for prevention without changing the alcohol law if we want to do so. Obviously, this is only the profit of the store, nothing more. We have a good system that has no reason to change since there are no benefits to change, only wonderful defects, as this is available. This has been received by the General and by comparable bills several times before. In this hall, the language has become classic. On the contrary, this does not make it better. It is as bad as it was when it first occurred, although changes were made. The argument is against it, and it becomes the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u178	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir said that we were discussing an caused by the government. I think that's true. I'd like to think so. Þorsteinn was thought Víglundsson be the 11th time a case of this nature is presented here at a council, though always by some small change. What I'd like to do here at the short time I have in place is to do a little bit of an explanation for the outcome last time it was brought here in the audience. It was in the General and Education Committee until shortly before the end of the 146th Parliament and was released with the majority of them, and a long time later the member of the Committee proposed a smaller opinion - but neither of these documents reached this room for discussion. In a paper with the bill we discuss, the panel referred to a panel of parts from the 146th Parliament and the readers are encouraged to examine where the views that the greater part considered were considered. I'd like to add to the fact that people would benefit from studying the less opinion of the part to see the views that the greater part ignored. This can be done by looking up a spell. One-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. There are a lot of things to do there, and I'm not going to go through it all. Perhaps there was first some of the preemptive tactics that were employed in the General and Education Committee, when it was settled from the Committee. The committee took visitors during a period of April 6, 2017. When those visitors were finished, you now felt that the matter was somewhat low for a period of six weeks, for most reviews had been negative. But then, in one of those cases, a representative of the greater part of the committee hung up with a structured commission and a modification proposal, quite extensive, which the majority of the pieces were supplied with the off May 19, 2017. These adjustments are actually the basis for the language we address here. So today's case is the case two years ago, along with adjustments in the terms of the rest of the section. I have to read a book as a smaller part of the General and Education Committee requested on this occasion, with the permission of the president: ▪ The smaller parts of the General and Education Committee protest that a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee have settled No. 106, a store with alcohol and tobacco, out of the Committee on May 19th, without the permission of the reviews of any health and financial committees requested. In addition, the Committee has not received an answer to the prime committee's request for a report from the Economic Institute for an assessment of the national benefit of the changes. Because of the large modification proposals of the larger part that you want to do on the bill, the smaller part feels that it is necessary to get new comments on them. A committee cannot be resolved without a new discussion. As the president hears of this publication, my section of the General and Education Committee brought up the committee with a somewhat ambitious discussion on the subject. Because as we have seen in all our discussions, there are many ways to look. It's a matter of government income, it's a matter of public health and it's a national interest, for example. The effects of drunk driving that may alter the bioavailability. What effect do we not know, since most of the objects were not to be investigated? What may be the worst of these efforts - and that's why I think it's important for people to learn about the smaller parts in their time, not just the one - sided coverage that the greater part published in their own eyes - is that a part of the report was sent to the welfare committee. A panel received a meeting for prevention at Reykjavíkurburg, met Iceland's Cancer Society, met the group, met a group of members of the Association for Prophylaxis, received education and prevention and someone else, and reminded me. So the public health program of this case was sent to the committee that is taking public health care here at the council in hopes that it would produce a review to the General and Education Committee that could be used as the basis for the decision-making of this committee. That statement did not work out, for the greater part felt more comfortable to ignore the common health, and that is what was done when the case was taken out. A little bit more public health, I'd say. Now, the President has to forgive me, it's been so long since the first day of this matter, which I think was March 6, at the time of the transfer, so I don't remember exactly what it was, but I thought it was a little bit taken away from what professionals say but a little bit made of the emotional activity of tourists. A man like that heard, e.g. Often regarding the effects of this bill, it will be accepted. It seems that two years ago, there were reviews based, not on the emotions of politicians, but on the studies of public health experts and other experts. What may be the most important and the most strange thing to have been ignored was the idea of the Ministry of Health. We're not just talking about some member of the community in town, we're talking about the welfare department, which the first secretary of this matter actually sat in as a minister at the time, so I hope that he is not the worst in the rocks that he has started speaking down the Ministry he controlled in part at the time it wrote this review. The Ministry points out what has been presented here during this year's discussion, that these differences, availability, prices and prevention, are being held together in Iceland's public policies in alcohol and alcohol abuses. You can't cut one out of it without being turned around. So I'm not just saying what I think, but what the Department of Health said, that's what the President's permission said: During the past few years, interest is a factor in success, and alcohol abuse has fallen to the point of reducing its success. This does not mean that increasing prevention can compensate for the negative consequences of alcohol abuse and detoxification of one of the most powerful operating systems in order to reduce the total consumption of alcohol and thus harm to society. It is important that all government decisions regarding public health, alcohol and alcohol control are guided by public health, along with the best knowledge of effective and effective measures. I'm going back to the fact that this isn't something I think. This is something that the Ministry of Health for Þorsteinn Víglundsson, then the highest. Minister, said. This is one of the many points of the critics' bill at the 146th Congress that was swept under the carpet when more of the General and Education Committee tore it out just so that they could challenge some level into the ledger. Now that the case is back, I understand why. A messenger wants to send it to the Economic and Business Committee this time, which is quite surprising to me. I hope that there is some chemical argument, not the fact that the carrier himself is on that committee, and perhaps the most convenient thing to do is to keep the case in his own hands. Like I said to what. Víglundsson For the beginning of this discussion, on March 6, I believe, of all that I've traced above and also because the public health issues are stronger than the last, that this matter is clearly at home in the welfare committee. So I propose it here again, as I did in opposition to the senator on March 6, asking that the president take his stand on that statement in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u179	A respectable president. I wanted to throw up one test in connection with the trial on this matter. This case has a somewhat colorful history in the matter of treatment, especially during the last terms when the person present was getting to know it for the first time. In fact, the commission went to steak, the government business went to steak, the government business went to steak, the whole thing got fried. It didn't work here at the Council with this case. Just as a short book could be written about it all. What's really left behind, after all that Hawaii, in my mind, because I have so half a mind about this matter and intend to keep one speech to explain exactly how much I don't care, though I support it, just wait; but I have wondered from the time if opposers of the matter would not get their best by trying to get what goes on through the council. Now I'm gonna figure it out. A senator is not trying to slow the matter down. This is a very important matter, and it may be discussed long and long in various committees. I don't make any comments about it, and I haven't seen any planned language in this case -- this time, though I've certainly done it before. I'm not trying to use this idea as some bat. I'm trying to use it more like a carrot. Wouldn't it be best to speed up the matter over the council and strike it down? I'm telling you, there's more to it than that. If that's the case at the council, I'd say why. A senator would be at peace with that for ten years. Just an idea like this. I wanted to throw it up because it often seems that it is an automatic tendency to want to take more time on a case that is contrary to people. Maybe it's just the wrong thing to put it in the cooler for a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u180	A respectable president. In general, I think treatment should be based on something rather than on rhythm. I think it's obvious that the bill that's about, as the Ministry of Health said two years ago, to replace one of the most important control tools in public alcohol and alcohol defences, we're not going to do anything about it. I don't care if this case doesn't cover up a year after year, I just have to admit that I'm working on it and serving it in committees, not from myself, but out of public interest. The general economy does not require that we be in some sort of gymnasium to get this issue out of the world. Rather, we work it carefully and professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u181	A respectable president. I find the answer very interesting at what happened. Senator. As I said earlier, I'm sure that people get the time they think fit. However, since the last term, I have not heard any new evidence in this case. It was just a question for those senators who consider the matter to be a fairly well examined case, and I think it is. It's been a long time since I heard a new argument or new evidence. It's literally years, a few years, at least a few years, what should you say? I respect the answer. Senator. If he wants to take a closer look, it's only a little small, nothing to do but support it. However, I would like to throw this forward to those members of the council who might consider the matter to be investigated enough to make a decision. I don't think there's anything given that would get more. There is also a complaint at the council that this will take some time. Every time this case is presented, we complain, here and in the community: Oh, is this case again? Some of them what? Congress officials complain that, as they say, they have to be doing their own time. I think the time of the council is important, so if it can be avoided without sacrificing any treatment, I would think at least some members of the council would be in favor of it. But then I give it up in a certain sense of irresponsibility because I don't particularly want to finish this matter quickly. I'm willing to talk about it, but I'm willing not to. I wanted to throw it out just in case someone else had a problem. Councilmen thought of holding matters here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u182	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to take action in this second answer to that question. Senator. First of all, the demographics of 2017 included whether or not the greater part of the General and Education Committee was important. The majority of it wanted to mean that these were smotting changes, which did not call for any further investigation. So in our memory, we disagreed, thinking that this was a major change. It's the norm. This knot has been cut by a carrier. In the beginning of this discussion in the winter, he said that this issue was very different from the last edition. In this way, I feel that it is risky to transfer the case two years ago to today and that it is an adequate payment now. This matter needs to be investigated from the foundation of a Senate committee. Hv. A senator has no new argument about the matter. That may well be so. I object, then, that there were many arguments two years ago that were ignored to form the public health issue, as if to form a statement from the Ministry of Health. So even if we get all the same lines back now that we had the last one, we can come to a different conclusion if we listen a little better and try a little more than that particular part of a universal and educational committee did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u183	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come up here for a minute because I think it's time for me to go to the Hall for a bill about changing the law on liquor and tobacco shops. I've followed up on bills submitted to last Parliament to increase the bioavailability of consumers to alcohol and to increase the source of the store's liquor market, i.e. to improve the potential of the store to earn money through the sale of alcohol. I've been observing the conference here at the conference and joined in the General and Education Committee on the matter more than once, but I didn't get a chance to appear on the platform before. Before a discussion of the 144th Parliament began, I did not have a very clear opinion of the case, but the more I work with the case, the more reviews I read and the more views I learn about it, the more I would be opposed, primarily because of the pre-and public health issues and because of the child's interests, direct and indirect. In the reviews and reviews of previous cases to the General and Education Committee, much more reports have been contrary to the transition to the mini-alcoholic system. Public health and concern over the increased consumption of alcoholic beverages have been a dominant attitude in the comments on the bill. There is evidence to suggest that alcohol increases consumption because personal shops will strive to promote the use of alcohol for profit, as is generally the case with ordinary consumers. Children's agent and child support have multiplied their opposition to the bill and are concerned about the effects of such legislation on children and young people in Icelandic society. A child - welfare agency has opposed the free gift of a small drug dealer to suggest that this will put an increased risk for children to approach alcohol. Previous reviews have also shown the importance of further analysis on the effect of a change in retail method. Studies from other countries indicate that consumption is increasing and the costs for individual, home, rural, or state funds have not been assessed. I'm gonna go over history fast. I point out that alcohol isn't like any other consumer product. As the law on alcohol - tobacco trade is now intended to define the setting of drinking and selling tobacco based on improved public health and community responsibilities. Their aim is to limit and control access to alcohol and tobacco, thereby reducing the harmful effects of alcohol and tobacco and to protect young people from alcohol and tobacco abuse and to limit offer to unwanted products. It is very important to maintain these goals. So I strongly oppose the law of the bill. After a large discussion in society, especially among experts and amateurs on prevention, there is evidence that a change in the spirit of the bill had an extremely poor social impact on individuals, homes, communities, and state funds. I'll take the suggestion. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's report for the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u184	Madam President. We will discuss the alcohol bill, which will be done at regular intervals. When you read this bill, you wonder if we really go to a better place than we are today by laying down the NTVR and removing the ATVR patent of alcohol sales. You wonder, " Who is it that draws the chariot in this case when it arrives at such regular intervals? ' Does this not primarily apply to the fact that it is in someone's best interest to cancel this patent, which is in line for those who are going to sell and make money? Let's do it. There are a lot of friends on this, and I'm going to take a national friendship. Because I don't think anyone who went out to a little store on alcohol would open up like the ATSVR did on Kopasker. I'm not sure. And if he did, maybe he'd offer one kind of bonus beer. Let's do it. I'm sorry, but I think there's something going on. A lot of people here have gone through public health problems. You wonder if the next step is to reduce your age from 20 to 18. Is it the next step to make more money? There's a good target group for alcohol, because - and I haven't heard it come up in this discussion - I think the situation is even better access to drugs than to alcohol, unfortunately. I think that's what's happening in the community with young people. Whether in Facebook groups, it is easier to get rid of such substances than with alcohol, some closed pages that are used to sell drugs. I'm just going to point out the results of the 2018 Young People. Research and analysis represent a very extensive and professional field testing of young people's dispositions. By 8th grade, 2001, 6% of young people had drunk for the past 30 days. It's down to 1%. And in the 9th grade of 2001, 16% of youths who had drunk in the past 30 days were young people. It's down to 1%. In 1998, 42% of youths had drunk alcohol during the past 30 days according to this study. It's down to 5% now. Clearly, somewhere we are doing what is right and right, so we should not compromise. Because alcohol isn't like any other product. It really is a drug of substance. Then you wonder: I'm going to a drug dealer or any other drug store to buy my medicine -- why don't I just go to the U.S. A TVR store to buy my liquor? I don't think there's anything wrong with the system we have today. There I get a good service, and I'm going to let myself say that I'm not sure I'm getting as good a service, a living outside the capital area, as it turns out. This has now been investigated and measured. 75%. plus, minus, the population is generally opposed to violating the NTVR patent of alcohol sales. As has been properly pointed out, however, this case is regularly introduced. It is only on the part of those who have to take the wagon to show off for the store. I'm sorry. Because once again: we are in that good place with alcohol sales for having left it in the hands of ATVR. In many parts of Europe, we strive to reach where we are today. It doesn't mean shaking your head over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u185	There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u186	Yeah, yeah, that's just the way it is. [[Up front.]] It's just that way. Many people wanted to see the results that Iceland has had in reducing alcohol consumption in young people. I also agree with you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson reports that the bill goes to the welfare committee for further recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u187	V.E.G. President. It struck what else on the corner of this lawsuit. We've been so successful that people look to us in reducing the consumption of young people. Do they believe that it depends on whether they are government employees or others who sell alcohol? I just want to point it out. According to a senator, the availability of alcohol has increased very much over the past few years. Yet, the consumption of young people has been reduced. Why should it be normal for you to have children? A senator can walk into a drug store and buy a drug that is certainly not ordinary products? He can do it with some privates, but he can't buy liquor there. There's something wrong with this statement. I want to point 'em. The senator here, almost every day, starts a new party, a private member, selling alcohol. Hv. A senator can go to bakery in Akureyri at 7:30 p.m. and have a white wine with the cords. So all this evidence, this public health argument that our people are better than others because ITVR sells alcohol, of course, does not work out. That's what it says. I agree, however, that the service will surely get worse on Kopasker. I'm completely convinced of that if I have stopped at least a TVR. No private person is going to sell it, not just countries in their shed. To me, it's not a big deal, and I don't care if it's just the same thing, really. I just criticize this argument because it doesn't work. I want to buy from private drinks just as much as I can buy from him my antipsychotics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u188	Madam President. There was no particular question in the counter, except for the senator's recipe that I wake up early in the morning and get a white wine that I've never done. There may be a question about us seeing each other in the morning in the bakery, so let's try it. Another question was addressed to me unless the senator himself said there was an increase in alcohol availability and still a decrease in consumption. Then I guess we're doing something right. What is it then that we are not doing or what it is that we are doing? It is as if the senator himself correctly pointed out; there is an increase in bioavailability. However, it reduces its consumption. Then why? So I'm just gonna use the answer to the counter, because I didn't get a question to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u189	V.E.G. President. Yes, bioavailability has been increased. The consumption of young people on alcohol has been reduced, and each day we get a new drinker from a private one. It's just a fact. Something's doing right? Well, that may well be so. I don't think it depends on whether a state worker in ATVR sells me alcohol or anyone else. Well, I'm sure that's not why this has come together because it's a government worker. I argue that there are other factors that determine whether alcohol consumption is increasing or contracting. It's a lot different than whether I've had ATVR sells me alcohol or anyone else. [[Foreground on, fallacy.]] - No, no. It is quite different from whether ATVR has a liquor deal or someone else. There are far more complex factors that make one misuse of alcohol or drink more than the number of sales places. That's what I'm sure of. Of course I'm here wrestling with a return to death, like a whale. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson would say, probably. [["Not in... "]] There's nothing to do about it. People here often refer to some poll. This poll is filled with people who don't eat the product, who have no interest in selling it. We're not going to take any notice of it. I view this as part of a legitimate sale of business freedom in the country that others can sell if government officials can sell it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u190	Madam President. The Senator said he wanted to be able to approach, for example. his psychiatric drugs to a private person, I think he used that example. He does not just shop at any person at the grocery store, as is the case. It's not like that. [[The point is: I'm not sure.]] Of course it will, when they say A then B comes next. It's just that way. The Senator is well aware of this, just as I am. As soon as we sell alcohol, this wine spirit, goes into private, the hall just increases. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u191	The sales are in private.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u192	No, we can go to the hairs on terms. As soon as alcohol goes to the grocery store, all the grocery stores, which will happen. It doesn't mean shaking your head over it. That's what's going to happen. [[Up front.]] No, that's what's going to happen. The Senator is well aware of this. Because the consumption of alcohol in total has been increased. That's it. Not in young people, it makes them less. Likely, we want them to stay in such a way that young people stay away from this. To say that, I could naturally tell a joke that we should just get into the bar. But I'm gonna let that joke go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u193	A respectable president. I know that if I start by saying I'm not going to give a long talk first, it's gonna be a long talk. So I'm not going to claim it, but I'm going to tell them my wish. Let's see what kind of mood they're having. I gave a talk during the last term in support of the case, as it appeared then and was proposed. 9th. South, Vilhjálmur Árnason. I gave a talk in support of the case, and after that, I spoke up at that point. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. He said that he was in favor of the case before he heard my speech, but he had basically changed his mind. The reason, I claim, is that I think alcohol is drugs, no less drugs than anything called drugs in society. I don't know what's supposed to be so sacred with alcohol that somehow less drugs or less drugs than cocaine, pot, or aminamine. What exactly does alcohol not do? Is that not the case with physical harm? Is that not the case with spiritual harm? Is that not an addiction? Isn't that death choice? What is it to make alcohol so amazing? Yes, it is their cultural situation. Identical. The only thing that separates alcohol from illicit drugs is its cultural status, its historical situation, not its impact or its destructiveness. The effects of substance are generally variable. Cannabis have a completely different effect than aminamine, which has a completely different effect than heroin, which has a completely different effect than cocaine, which certainly has a completely different effect than alcohol. It's just the nature of the fool, the chemistry. For a long time, people have tried to put alcohol on someone else's chairs, even speaking about alcohol and drugs that I find strange because it's a drug, it's a drug, it's a drug, and it's a drug. This wasn't what I was going to be upset about, but I think it's important to remind the Senate of this because of the context of the freedom that I'm going to go into after. I'm going to save it at this point to explain exactly why I'm in favor of the material situation. I'd rather explain why I don't care about it. I don't care exactly about that, but I basically don't care about that. It is totally indiscriminate to me that it will not go through, nor is it totally without cause. I'd vote with that vote. I wouldn't bother to sign it, be with the importer on it, but I'll press the green button, I'll vote with it. I like to start with arguments that are often referred to against this case, which are that the ATVR provides such a good service, especially in the country. In fact, I feel that in that argument, in reality, it is quite crystal clear how strange this arrangement is. How in the hell did the State become a place to ensure a good selection of drugs? I'm sorry, but at what meeting was it decided that it would be important that in the country or wherever there was a huge selection of this amazing drug called alcohol? I just think it's ridiculous that the state carries them or that it's the job to ensure a selection of some drug, whether it's alcohol or something else. I don't understand the logic. I've heard them many times, and they talk a lot here, but I actually leave less and less of them in them as I spend more time with them. Normally, I assume that this is bullshit. The reason why I really don't care about this is because people start talking about it in terms of freedom. Icelanders up to its ranks think it's a terrible liberal, and Iceland is supposed to be a terrible, free country. I couldn't agree with that. Iceland has never been a free country, never ever. It's like a lot of other Boy Scouts. We've just finished banning the blasphemy of 2015. Pornography is still banned in Iceland, and I know that there's a Tabu subject, which is closer to an isolated case in Western democracies called. It's a discussion I actually think the Allied Congress isn't quite mature enough to handle properly, at least without the upstart and booming. We punish people for possession of drugs. Despite the obvious fact that personal consumption is involved, let us punish sick people for their drug abuse. Even if it is absolutely clear that the person needs it so as not to experience hell's dissociation in liberal Iceland. It is a six - year prison striped beer for personal consumption. The only protection is that these laws are generally not carried out. Speaking of which. Pirats and I presented a bill my initiative to change that crap, because of the impact it has on the city's security rights. It only takes one police officer somewhere in a bad mood who decides to start following these laws, and the right security of many people is being shaken by the fact that we have laws that impair freedom. Freedom of business is important, not just because people want to make money. This is important because economic relations are part of the human existence and good society. In Icelandic discussion of freedom, what always provokes a measure of irritation is how low my individual freedom is on the list. Freedom of business is always the top priority. When it comes to stopping forbidding individuals to do something in their own private lives, Icelandic politicians and actually Icelanders in general have no particular interest in freedom at all. It's mostly about selling something and making money. Not being able to act on your own personal life without being in danger of punishment, some of which may be very cruel in some cases, such as in our home brewing. That's what's irritating this matter. If we're going to increase our individual freedom, this is not the point. Here we begin by stopping telling people what they may be called. Let's start there. I advertised the answer to which meeting it was scheduled, probably here at some point in the early 20th century like many other nonsense. Our name does not even bring us peace as adults. I'm not talking about children, I'm talking about adults who make a conscious decision to change their names. No, it is not because everyone else feels that it should be somehow different from the person who bears the name himself. Then we'll talk about freedom here, a respectable president. I just get frustrated by saying those things out loud because I find it so hypocritical. I think I'll let it go for now. There is only one part to follow in this discussion, and the question is, What should the committee do about it? Classic discussion. It has been proposed to the Economic and Business Committee by the prime minister, the first member, and the welfare committee by others, and I find both committees to be objective. There is another committee that deals with judicial matters. It's called the General and Education Committee. I suggest that the case goes to her, not formally, but because I don't really want to vote for it. I don't really care about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u194	V.E.G. President. I think there was one sentence for that speech. It is the sentence that there has never been any liberality or freedom. If you think Iceland is a free country, that's a big misunderstanding. That's right. On the other hand, the debate is very far - reaching that the only difference between alcohol and then ametamol and cocaine is culturally different. Senator. Although these substances are well - known and have long been known to have long - term consumption of alcohol, they are quite different. Men taking cocaine and aminamine could simply die of one dose in one night. There's a big difference. It's like equalizing dangerous drugs, which are life - threatening if you're taking them wrong, and then it's full of shit. It's just not comparable. I think that when people get on this path in this conversation, it's just confusing the discussion, okay? Senator. I think it's about normal market competition, normal business freedom. That's what matters. It matters to the consumer. And if people think that they're going to be involved in the use of alcohol, there's no evidence to that effect. I wanted it to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u195	A respectable president. In fact, I said more things in my speech than that alcohol is like drugs. That's why I didn't say alcohol was like all the other drugs. I made it very clear that all drugs are very different. Cannabis act differently than cocaine, which works differently from heroin, which works differently than alcohol, which works differently from LSD. These substances vary greatly, and the dangers of them vary from one to the next. Hv. One senator said that long - term consumption of alcohol could lead to addiction. It doesn't take you long to eat anything. A lot of people are going to be very dependent on alcohol just for the first sip. It's a very common story of those who have had trouble with it. Also said "wow." Senator that a single dose of amikamine and cocaine can kill a person. No doubt this is possible. But is this not possible with alcohol? I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has heard stories about ecstacy, MDMA, sometimes called Ecstacy, and said that one E pill can be killed. All that discussion can be very harmful because if it is not consistent with consumer experiences, they stop heeding all warning words. By the way, if people want to talk about one dose, I don't know that one dose or several doses due to marijuana smoking caused death, possibly cancer after decades of smoking. That may be, and perhaps. People question that, I'm told. At least no one gets one ion and dies of it. No one gets one ion and beats someone downtown, though there's real danger with cannabis, like all drugs that work over their heads. I just want to reiterate it. I didn't say that drugs are the same because they differ. Even within each category there are different strengths and combinations, including alcohol. I mean, vodka isn't exactly like beer, though the same substance is active in it. I just want to remind you that people can just die from one dose of alcohol. It can totally blow one piece of land in one night. Can't this lead to death? Of course it's drugs. It's no less drugs than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u196	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator concluded that it was no less drugs than the rest. Yeah, it's less drugs because it's much more dangerous. [[In what way?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u197	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u198	- Yeah, that's a lot more dangerous. It is much more used than other substances. It's a drug, of course. To get high, you have to drink a lot of it. However, as the examples prove--and then I'm not talking about the E-tablet because the E-tablet is probably remembered by all these agents outside alcohol. She's not even addictive. Of course, not everyone knows. That's perhaps the option of the E pill. All these theories of dying of one tablet - I don't think there's any evidence to that effect. I even think that's wrong. A senator, but there is another discussion. I'm saying it's not just cultural, it's important to get high. She's a very different date. It is less destructive, unless, of course, one can be very hurt by long - term drinking. To compare it in this way, I think it's the wrong way and I'm confused about the conversation and the confusion of the conversation. I don't think we should link this up. We may be able to relate this to some extent to cannabis smoking, not to LSD, amine, cocaine, heroin, or morphine-related substances. It's just a different arm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u199	A respectable president. I don't know how to be any clearer than repeating things, maybe two times. These drugs are all different, as I say this third time. However, there is a reason. A senator may not be entirely honest with himself about the harm caused by alcohol. Whatever you call a dose, it doesn't take long to be very serious about the first time. I mean, a little bit of land, don't you think? Isn't that a dangerous dose? Or just a vodka pulse in enough short time, if you're poaching one vodka pulse in a half hour? I haven't asked a doctor recently, but I would think it would be a serious health problem and could possibly kill someone. One dose, so called. Also, alcohol is a mild drug. I just want to pray. A senator - I know I don't have to ask. A senator about this - to go out to the pub sometime and see how people behave on alcohol. Really speaking, the main symptoms of alcoholism are poor judgment, better known as foolishness and self - control. These two qualities mixed together are one drug of substance. It's alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u200	It takes overindulge to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u201	There's no need for overdose, a respectable president. I think it's incredible. After one or two beers or a stronger drink, you feel yourself. It does not take too much consumption, as if it takes a lot less consumption of other substances. If you were to drink cannabis or drink mushrooms, as they do, I would think it was a very similar amount. It depends on how strong it is. Which reminds me that I find it a little strange to be talking about one subject being in its nature stronger than the other. It is always a matter of how it is mixed and how it is eaten. It's the same with alcohol as with LSD. It is recommended in micrograms to cause high levels of substance, which is also not addictive. In fact, it is more common for people to test LSD once and never again because they don't make it worse. LSD is recommended in micrograms. I can only repeat again, since I've been saying three times, all these drugs are different. They vary according to the way they are consumed and, of course, obviously. What I'm saying is there's nothing we're against drugs that don't like alcohol. It's an addiction. It is damage to organs, spiritual harm, insanity, and death. That's the facts, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u202	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to have a pleasant talk, which was naturally not on the subject but on a very small scale. Therefore, rather than discussing names of men or blasphemy or pornography, I plan to direct the light to the brief chapters of the talk that discussed the subject of the evening, i.e. the use of alcohol in retail stores. Hv. A senator said something about himself that no matter what happens to this case, whether it would be approved or canceled, but he himself said that he would accept it. In other words, he intends to accept a matter that is more effective in selling substances that cause mental illness, death, and health problems. In other words, even though he knows that this is the result of a lot of alcohol, he is willing to accept this matter. It has been observed that since the last time we made an effort to change alcohol sales in Iceland, in 1989, alcohol sales have been multiplied, measured in a mere wine cane every year. All that I've had. A senator claimed here, i.e. The insanity, death, and sickness have grown in those days. In fact, wise people have said that now we Icelanders are eating clean wine on a man about 8.5 gallons [8.5 L.], something like that, probably 11 gallons [11 L] a man on this bill approved by this bill. With related health problems. That's why I'm a little surprised. One senator said that he would likely agree with this in view of the fact that, on this matter, we agreed that there is an even greater level of alcohol consumption here than it has now done in recent health benefits. That's why I want to go for it. A senator to see if this is really what he is thinking of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u203	A respectable president. Yes, I realize that this can easily appear to be a contradiction. I had the same problem the last time I gave a very similar talk, during the last term at least. It is true that the consumption has increased, but it has been reduced in her youth. To me, the key to all of this is that I'm against custody. I'm against people's health as a measure of community success. I realize this is a rather radical idea in this room. But just taking health information and stuffing it together into statistics, I don't think it's automatically something more important. I make decisions in my life that affect my health, which are not necessarily reasonable based on health issues. It's just my personal thing. I decide what I set as a goal in my life. Some want to be extremely healthy, others want to be athletes, or both. Some people have no particular interest in it, and they choose some other way in their lives, and that is the freedom that I hold to so much. That's why I'm against custody. I sometimes describe it, so I sometimes wanted to be able to register from the public health department because I don't want my health to become someone else's assessment of how to manage society. I'm not saying it's a role of public health. It's good that this is tested. It's good that some positive, upbuilding measures are taken to increase human health, but to control society by it, I just don't agree. I just don't want to do things that way. That is when it comes to the children. The reason I'd accept this bill is because it's come to meet them, including. with increased protection. We may be effective in reducing the drug use of youths. That's the main thing. If people start at a reasonable point in their life, at least 20 years of age, using drugs, whether alcohol or anyone else, they will cause the odds to get into trouble. That's why I think that's the main thing. [[The president calls.]] I believe we can achieve both goals at the same time. By increasing business freedom and by reducing teen consumption at the same time. I believe that goals are realistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u204	V.E.G. President. Hell of a people brain, yes. She even tells us. that the nations that now consume an average of 11 gallons per person of pure alcohol per year, such as the British, Dani, German, usually live two years less than the average Icelander. I don't know if it's good or bad. I knew a good doctor who's dead now and he was smoking. They said, "Are you a doctor, and are you a smoker? And he said, If I stop smoking, I will live a week longer, and it will rain all the time. But it's not quite that simple. And, of course, we can choose a life - style that is not healthy, as we say. A senator came in. If he's very unhealthy, someone will eventually take the check, i.e. If we, me and what. A senator, if we live our lives so unhealthy, whether we put on a chocolate cake or drink alcohol or we smoke grass or what we do, and suffer damage by it, at all times the Icelandic society will take us in at some point and with the appropriate cost for others who do not. According to this, I want to say that in itself, I agree completely with the reason. A senator says that alcohol is no less drugs than any other drug, no less. There's been some evidence that alcohol is more dangerous than heroin, and I'm willing to buy them arguments. This doesn't make any difference because we know that if we increase the availability of this drug, we'll have a wave of all kinds of problems over us, health issues, etc. etc. There is also something else that is right to state in this matter. Too much alcohol is not a personal drinker. She lays her family down and casts a shadow over the entire environment of the family. So there is a measure of effort to reduce this effect by controlling consumption, as it is done in the northern worlds and by the World Health Organization (WHO). [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u205	A respectable president. In itself, I don't mind controlling my consumption in some way, as is suggested in the bill. She continues to be controlled despite the special shops that can be sold. There's a permit unit and that sort of thing and a lot of conditions, and I think that's all right. I don't think it's a great obligation that it touch a person's freedom of choice. It's only business freedom, but you know, it's just the world and, of course, Iceland. Hv. A senator gave a very interesting argument that they are saying if someone is very sick, someone else will pay the bill, and that's exactly right. In fact, I wish I had a whole speech to discuss that point because it's the only point I've ever seen between being a socialist and being a custodyist. This is the only connection I see there. That when we begin to acquire Kingdom dragons, or government funds, our health systems, and such matters, all of a bit of a personal matter, just to be of concern to everyone. The only way I feel is to separate the left man inside me, who is half of it, or so, maybe just a little more, from custody, is by making decisions, I'm saying to myself: I'm willing to finance and pay for my health with my taxes, with my money. They are happy to pay, proud of it, and are willing to raise them even. I'm left-handed enough to do that. But not with my freedom. However, I would like to make a personal decision that affects my health and that I still don't want anyone else to do it because I'm paying my taxes, and that's how I want to finance this central drinking system. I understand the point. I just firmly believe that we should not be guided by him when it comes to how we define a system or what freedom people should have, whether for business or for personal life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u206	Madam President. I would like to recommend a interpretation of the meaning of the lips from the occupied areas of Palestine. Transporters that this proposal is accompanied by me. paritaprevir Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Ólafur Gunnarsson, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir, and Valdimarsson Steindór Valmisson. The text of the synopsis itself is not long, but it sounds like this, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from resorting to necessary measures to mark the origin of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine by proper means and by making it possible for Palestinians to take advantage of the benefits of their EFTA and Palestine. To discuss this subject, I will review the report. The text of the synonym itself is short, and it can be said that the meat on the outside is included in the report. The proposal has previously been moved to 141,◯145. The Council of Justice, as well as the 146th legislature, was not finished, and now it is remanded. The report has updated business statistics and tried to work with the latest information available. The political alliance between Iceland and Israel has a somewhat long history, and business between the nations has been significant. According to the Habitat figures, import was 1,020.7 million from there. K. In 2011 and 774.1 million. K. In 2015, 631.7 million. K. In 2016, it reached 92.4 billion. K. In 2017. According to Iceland's Habitat, this is some strange text - nothing was brought in from Palestine. There's something to look at, Mr. President, I'm sorry. In many parts of the world, governments and consumers have come to realize that parts of Israel's exports are to be attributed, not to areas within the international accepted borders of the State of Israel, but to illegal settlements in the occupied areas of Palestine. They are primarily on the west bank of the Jordan and in the eastern part of Jerusalem. These settlements have increased, although they are at war against internationally established borders, the World Court's decision to the Hague and the number of UN conclusions. Understandably, this trend has affected the standard of life of Palestine, but it is not to be underestimated as much as it is among Israelite citizens. The present government in Israel, however, seems to follow the policy of taking up increased land and water supply from Palestine, under the land mines. As a result, they have proved to be one of the main barriers to further discussions in the Mediterranean waters, as well as regular conflicts between settlers and Palestinians that must be seen by their farms. Iceland has no more than the United Nations recognized the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel. Therefore, the kingdom of Israel should not be recognized as the homeland of products produced in the settlements. Several countries have undergone regulations that the origin of these products will be tolerated, not Israel, but the land. The European Commission has included: Send away instructions for such markings. Governments in countries that have gone into such markings have included: has begun to react with accusations that are intended to reduce business dealings with Israel. This has even been true. South Africa's secretary of trade and trade, Rob Davies, refused and pointed out that it is the obligation of the local government to enforce the laws on consumer protection in this way, as the source of the products should be specified. Of course, we've discussed this in a completely different context here in Iceland, in connection with Icelandic agriculture, where we want to know where the goods in the camp are made. It is the most common agricultural product involved when it comes to the production of land in Israel, and it has a share. magazines are available for sale in Icelandic commerce. To mention again to South Africa, it has been suggested that as a member of the United Nations, South Africa cannot accept the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel, so it cannot be defined as the source country of products produced there. It may also be added that in Switzerland the big - market chains of Migros and Coop have taken initiative in identifying land-infested products and informing clients that there are adequate information about the products available, to make their origin clear, not to encourage the shunning of Israelite products. By the measures made by this Parliamentary proposal, the Icelandic consumers would be able to decide for themselves whether to support the economy in the occupied areas of Palestine. The special meaning of such products would not have a major impact on Iceland and Israel's trade; they might even argue that they would rather make the products listed as less suspicious to the Israelis. On July 1, 1999, the European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the Palestinian Freedom Association, PoLO have made a provision for a temporary free trade that went into effect and is accompanied by this synonym as a document and is printed. The purpose of the PLO interim agreement was to ensure a equilibrium between EFTA and the European Union in trade with the countries of the southern Mediterranean. At that time, the treaty was considered to be an important link in support of the peace process above the Mediterranean Sea. The most exciting thing is to say that the contract has not been active and that the EFTA business with Palestinian habitats is limited. The overall deal was only 23.3 million dollars in 2015 and was, in effect, only exports of EFTA to Palestine. It has been claimed that Israel, in effect, will prevent Palestinians from completing this contract and will enjoy the benefits of the land of Palestinians being torn apart by walls that prevent them from tilling their land and normal transport. As I mentioned earlier, the contract between EFTA and the Palestine Freedom Association follows this synopsis proposal and is printed here as a document with it so that it can be studied in the Senate. As I also mentioned, this is not the first time that this council proposal is made. It has been sent to review, and in 2017 a statement from the State Department stated that the Ministry of State considered it normal for consumers to be generally informed about the origin of products. It also applies to products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine, which must be appropriately defined. It also discusses that Israel's rural areas in the occupied areas of Palestine violate international law and international human rights laws. In addition, the settlements are in areas that are not recognized internationally as members of Israel. In fact, the General Assembly of Iceland has decided since 2011 to accept the independence and sovereignty of Palestine in that region. The Free Trade Convention for EFTA treats Israel only territory within the established border of Israel, to be clearly stated, but not the settlements. It is also in this statement by the Ministry that efforts are made to enable Palestinians to make use of the benefits of a preliminary agreement between the European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the Freedom Association of Palestine, PLO, on behalf of the National Council of Palestine. It is noted that Palestine has been the largest source of strength from the EFTA Community Cooperation Fund for years. It backs up that the business side of that case has not worked well enough. So came this positive review from the Ministry of State and, in fact, other organizations that I'm not going to trace from this speech. I believe it matters that there is a discussion on this matter that the review was given when it was presented at the 146th legislature. I'm not going to have that other word for it this time. After this discussion, I suggest that the situation be resolved. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. I hope, of course, that it will eventually be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u207	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for making this suggestion here and making a recommendation for her. It's not the first time she's done it, but remembered. The speaker in his talk explained that this suggestion was now offered for the sixth time. It has been moved before it was finished but is now reassigned unchanged with an updated number of articles. Although my name is not on this council decree, of course, I support it with all my heart, hoping that the General Assembly of Iceland will remove it as a full-scale pact proposal, for we have waited a long time for it to be taken care of. It's like the first shipman, huh? paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, traced here in its speech, is the reason for this synonym, of course, that some exports from Israel from their origin were not to be attributed to regions of the internationally acceptable border of the State of Israel but to illegal settlements in the occupied areas of Palestine. The present government in Israel seems to follow the policy of taking increased land and water supply from Palestinians to the land's settlements. This controversy is naturally almost eternal, and we saw it flare up in a terrible way some days ago when brutal conflicts broke out between settlers and Palestinians, with tragic results. Such cases always occur regularly with the loss of innocent citizens, as we know well. As the report shows with this synonym, Iceland, like the United Nations, has never recognized the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel and should therefore not be recognized as the homeland of its products produced in the settlements. It'll lead to it on its own. By the measures made by this Parliamentary proposal, the Icelandic consumers would be able to decide for themselves whether to support the economy in an illegally occupied territory in Palestine. As the first shipman, Steinunn Árnadóttir Yearnad, mentioned, this concierge proposal has received support from not omerier organizations than the National Association of Iceland, which has supported this synopsis proposal every time it has been submitted. For decades, the National Association of Iceland has condemned Israel's occupation of Palestine and has supported the international union of labor unions for the rights of Palestinian workers and opposition to the illegal occupation. Of course, this is also part of the fact that Palestinians can make livelihoods and receive prices for their products, they are not robbing it, as well as all the human rights violations that take place on the part of the kingdom of Israel. I'm not here to give a long talk, but I also wanted in this context a reminder of our achievements in Iceland when it comes to accepting Palestine as our sovereign, independent state. This body of interpretation is in perfect harmony with local government policy when it comes to that recognition. It may be correct to assume that for years Iceland has supported the autonomy and independent states of Palestinians, underlining a peaceful solution to the issues of Palestine and Israel, and making it necessary for the international community to make an agreement. The Icelandic government has always supported the outcome of the issues of Palestine and Israel in negotiations and has supported a course of peace that leads to that conclusion. Like a snooze. The senator mentioned the opinion of the South African Minister who has given a pretty good answer to the fact that this synopsis proposal and other similar injuries are not to be reduced Israel's business, but to ensure that products, origins, or sources of products are correct. It is also true in this context to remind the government of this country that in word and deed, it has given full support to the security and rights of the kingdom of Israel. Thus, on May 18, 1989, the General approved a synopsis of the disputes between Palestinians and Israel, which, in fact, were held in hand. that the Council emphasizes the acceptance of the Palestinian self - determination rights of the nation and the existence of the kingdom of Israel. So it is right to think that this may not be the threat that the government in Iceland is reducing Israel's trade, but it is to ensure that the source of the products is clear and all consumers aware of where they come from, and thereby ensure the security they deserve; and also to ensure that consumers can choose in an enlightened way the products that they feel are falling in support of the righting manufacturers of the defense. As I said in the beginning, I'd like to thank the traveller of this council resolution for presenting it here once again, hoping that the General will have a chance to accept this body of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-07-101.u208	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the insurance policy laws and the business of pension funds. This is a matter related to the social responsibility of pension funds and their equality policy. The bill was submitted to a Council of 148, but it was not granted, so it is reassigned here. This is a case involving all of the Parliament's Conferences, as well as those of three other categories, Björn's son Gunnarsson, Helgi Hoffns, Helga Hinns, Vala Helgadóttir, Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir, Andrés the Jónsson of Ingi, and Guðmur of Andri, son of Thorsson. The above adjustment is largely biphasic, at 1 mg. 36 st. The law adds to a new number, as follows: The Pentateuch shall set up an equal policy that covers the fund's investments. 36th. has a general discussion of the investment policy of pension funds, which contains several factors to be considered by pension funds, including the setting of financial interests and the setting of moral standards in investments, to name just a few. This is suggested at 2nd. 41 st. The law, which includes the reporting of the administration, adds up to a new number, as follows: the implementation of the fund's equality policy. According to this report, along with an overview of the quality of the fund in the year and other information, information on how the pensions have been conducted in the process of this equality policy. Before I go into the subject of the bill itself, I'd like to have a few words about the situation in which it is already in the process of inducing the power of Icelandic financial life. I'm going to give a witness, with the permission of the president, in an article from the central core since February. It says about the survey: This year, like last year, it reaches 90 top managers of business banks, savings, pension funds, registered associates, unauthorized insurance companies, loan companies, stock companies and services, revenue funds, energy companies, deposit companies, Kalulls and loans. The conclusion now is that 80 of them are men, but ten are women. Women increase by one - year - old [...] This group that falls under the bill of assessment controls thousands of billions of dollars and chooses which investments they make each time. When the nuclear medicine was first performed in February 2014, the total number of jobs covered was 88. At that time, 82 men were in that position, six women. In 2015, the number of jobs was 87, 80 men, and seven women. [...] In 2017, 80 men and eight women concluded. Last year, she was 81 men and nine women. [...] The conclusion is that during those years, little or nothing has changed that should be considered the most progressive in equality. The impact of pensions in Icelandic business life is considerable, as the fund is now the largest member of the Icelandic financial market. There are 22 of them, but they are directed by the 16 individuals. Of these, there are 14 men and two women. Pensions of the Pension Fund at the end of December. 4,440 billion dollars were evaluated. The Pension Funds hold a large proportion of bonds and registered shares, either directly or indirectly through a fund they have invested in. They have also invested a lot in unskilled property and have gone to a great deal in mortgages to real estate, as it is known. According to the law on the mandatory insurance rights of pensions, which are referred to here and the operation of pension funds, all employees and occupational employees and/or independent activities are obliged to ensure their pension rights as part of a pension fund. The Pension Funds are thus assigned to promote public funds and therefore have a social role. This role is reflected, including. of the year 36. The law says that pension fund should guide society's interests and set moral standards in investments. This bill suggests that the community's role in pensions is played out in terms of equal status and equal social rights of men and women by staging that funds should set up an equal policy that reaches the individual's investments. Similarly, the annual report of the fund shows how the implementation of equality policy has been done, how investments of the funds fit in with such a course. Thus, in accordance with this, it is necessary to explain specifically the grounds for investing in enterprises with a sex accord that is largely high among the highest rulers, for example. In fact, such policies should be self-recognized and natural in view of the role of pension funds in the community, for many studies have shown that enterprises with a more balanced gender ratio in the management and executives in general are improving. Thus, this should depend on the social responsibility of the funds mentioned above. In view of the situation in Icelandic business, however, it is advisable to give special consideration to this obligation of pensions by law. Mr. President. Although much has been achieved in the fields of equality, certain areas of society seem to be a little bit on the boat. An example is the financial sector. The figures are striking, showing that more than 90% of those who control money here are men. Among them, the funds are different, not according to this proportion, but because they belong to all the people. Everyone must pay in the pension fund of their wages, men and women alike. Pension funds have it, so I'll stake it, a social function to play. They're managing our money. In their investments, they are extremely active in their business affairs. The bill suggests that the pension funds so shoulder responsibility when it comes to promoting equality in the community. In this way they carry out their social duties in the best way and the role they are assigned to play in the community. It is therefore suggested that this social obligation be legalized so that pension funds are made to set an equal policy that reaches their investments. As I told you earlier, research shows that companies with a variety of management groups, including Due to the presence of gender substitutions, a better effect is observed. In view of the fact that the funds are meant to maximise the survival of their investments, this should be a matter and a debate. This has simply not been the case. Hence, it is logical and vital that the next step be determined by this obligation. The law on equality required in Article 1. This bill, however, is not enough. The way it is carried out, there must be transparency. Therefore, it is also highlighted and suggested that the pension funds be legalized according to the annual report on how equality policy is conducted. That's how the funds, for example. need to explain why investing is in enterprises that do not meet equality criteria. I think it is important to learn that this is a matter of validating the duties of the funds to support your choice and decisions, not the intervention of decisions in other ways. Thus, this cannot be described as a major limit to their freedom. Rather, it is simply a requirement, a normal requirement for the owners of the funds, and those of interest, that choices, decisions, and actions are supported. It is the political duty to watch for ways to change and improve the system of things for the benefit of the common people. We are not to allow certain areas of society to be left separate, nor are we to let certain areas of society get caught in sexual misconduct. Mr. President. Just at the end of that discussion, I'm going to mention that after the first statement was given here during the last council, much of it was divided in two. On one hand, there were very positive comments, many and others, in which the main problem was that the budget did not apply to all founded investors. I can say that in time you can look at it. But the difference between pension funds and other institutions is the person I've spent a considerable amount of time explaining, i.e. That pensioning is legalized, and it is natural that more and more community members and government officials are resting there. I've concluded my case, Mr. President, and I wish the case should go to the Economic and Business Committee, and my hope is that there will be good and quick progress.
