ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u1	A respectable president. I just think it's a little key to a budget board that we don't have a clue. We're just the right amount, and we're told, "This is what it takes. I remain and watch official financial laws, and I am to monitor the quality of the ministry, etc. and what benefits are there for the use of public funds, and I don't even know what to start with, except for the big question, "How's this gonna be? But then I don't get any answers. This is what I try over and over because the more you ask, the more you get no answers, the foolish he seems to be who is asked not to know the answer to what I would consider to be a very obvious question: Why does this cost so much? Why does this not cost 100 million more than 100 million less? What am I getting for this money, because the extra contract looks exactly the same as the pay deal? It is said that the total amount, 90% of that contract, will be updated according to the pay number. We're paying for this. It's not supposed to be that way, but the deal looks like it. Then we come back for service in this congregation, and then we have to pay extra. Wait, haven't we paid yet? You see, I don't get this connection, and if I want to criticize the amount, I don't know where to start, and that's why I have a problem with this bill. It's about the transfer of personnel from Part A into the contracts of the budget and then the transfer of the funds. Then I'm buying services from these members of the National Church, not the state, and I want to know what kind of service I'm buying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u2	A respectable president. I see why. A senator quite well, that it is difficult to speak for or enter a case that cannot be explained well enough or to tell us well enough and to provide evidence that this is so gay. I also, not only in this matter but in general, that there may be a better explanation when the government negotiates or decides the sums of the money, and that there are often more to the point of what is behind the contract, what is behind the exchange and the like, as it were. A senator spoke of the agreement with the National Church. In fact, I think it would be in the interests of the Church that it all worked out, that it would be well clear how the switch is between individual teams or how people do this, what is really pay expenses, and what cost of other businesses, etc. I think that would in the end be for good. I think the Church simply needs to be in a more positive light because there are so many positive things to do in my opinion and taking steps in the direction that the senator is talking about, and maybe taking the initiative, I think it would be an improvement for everyone. It's not good if someone thinks it's a cover-up. I don't want anybody to know that there's something weird in there, but I'm sure it's not. I know why. A senator will undoubtedly follow up on it and ask about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u3	Mr. President. I just wondered where the minister disappeared. There is one speech, and then I give a talk full of questions for the Minister of Justice. If she could see fit to be present, that would be most welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u4	The president believes that the highest. A minister is still in the house, but the president had in mind postponing further discussions on the 7th topic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u5	Borist has received a letter from the Minister of Justice requesting every appointment to provide a written answer to a covering query. 535, prison cases and judicial punishments, from Ómar Ásbjörn Óskarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u6	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, is the proposal for president, with reference to the long program in which we live today and the fact that according to the World Congress Work Programme, this should be the third last day before Christmas, that a conference can last longer than it is scheduled today. This proposal should be considered approved if no one moves objections and no vote is required. I do. The president also wants to inform us that the end of discussions about the Senate and the votes will be suspended for a brief recession for a meeting of the president with members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u7	Mr. President. Tomorrow, on the second last day before the Christmas break of the council, a month will have passed since the person mentioned here for the sixth time asked for a sale of the ideals of the Substitute Fund. The answer has not yet been received. As I say, this inquiry was submitted for the sixth time. It has been submitted to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Child Affairs and is now assigned to the Ministry of Justice. These two ministers have chosen to ignore the council completely by failing to respond to the inquiry. It is likely between 18 and 20 years after the first appearance. I must say, Mr. President, this is an entirely disturbing performance of the European Commission against the Council. My name is President to make sure that this inquiry will be answered before the council goes to Christmas pass and that it will not be lost in the Christmas Book Flood. That's why I'm going to make a request to the president and ask him for his help one more time that he will help answer that inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u8	If it isn't right, then what? A senator, that we reveal that this case has become a long history? The president and the Presidency Committee have contributed, as per our discussion of this during the summer, a detailed report made by the Senate law and a letter sent to the council that is taken in a somewhat decisive way by the Council's Office to answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u9	Especially that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u10	I believe it may be true that the president and the Presidency Committee have left it. A member of the council is very much involved in this case. I am as interested in seeing the answers coming from the problems I have learned from the problems I have faced in view of the work the Parliament has put forth to make clear boundaries in this matter. Of course, it places a guard on the important rights that its members have to obtain information through inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u11	Mr. President. I must say the bottom with the bang. Senator, we must be able to demand that ministers do better and answer questions sooner. I am here on a list of some issues that the Group of Congress has requested, and they have not yet been received. Of course, I trust the President of the Ministers to do that. You see, even though the answers to written inquiries are sometimes in the blister section, they are at least More precise and satisfying than the answers we receive in unsubstantiated queries, where ministers may allow themselves to come here in a few times and kill matters and completely ignore answers. Therefore, these written requests are important and, of course, also about reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u12	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with this request, and I thank the president and the Presidency Committee for exactly the initiative to follow this request. I would also like to remind you that it is a reply time of 15 regular days, which is beyond the time given here. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that people can monitor queries in later activities in the council. I'm just going to give a talk about it, so it's gonna be very exciting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u13	Mr. President. I'm living up here for the second meeting manager because, of course, I'm grateful to the president for what he and the prime committee have done on this matter, but that's also why I'm concerned. In spite of this and despite the fact that the Directorate of the II Parliamentis has made a decision in this regard, Ministers still struggle to answer that same inquiry. Then I ask: "Who are we here when it is not enough for even the president and the prime committee to conclude a case like this, that the general lawyer of the Council gives a paper that is sent to the council as well as to the highest authority? Prime Minister? In fact, if this is not even of the European Commission's concern, what would the General be doing to assist members of the Parliament in caring for their necessary surveillance duties with the Commission?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u14	I think the President will have to say that if this inquiry is not to be answered in accordance with the unambiguous conclusion and duty that the General concluded after a thorough review of the case, then there will be a major incident in the relations of the Council and the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u15	Mr. President. We are here now with a government that boasts well of environmental success, a government that places great emphasis on a peace profile that is often based on over decades of law. It's fine, but, in the same way, it seems like it lacks the courage to take on serious action in climate. While talking about things is positive and good, it also comes to that point that it is actually harmful to allow yourself to talk about things without action. The Swedish youth Greta Thunberg, who has initiated a debate wave and incentive for action in environmental and climate systems around the world, has now been selected as a person of the year by Time magazine. She has even. Repeatedly pointing out that words need to be carried out, including by rejecting various privileges that have been bestowed upon her, preferring that action be taken. You see, we need sleeves, not empty words, but sleeves. The lack of action of those who understand and acknowledge the need is more dangerous than the inactions of those who deny it. We also have people who require action, young people who have met weekly outside our councilhouse with their demands. We should listen to those words, and then we should take action. In fact, there are those who feel that there is a hole in the criticism of young people and that older generation has moved more, it has contaminated less, not as much bridges, not as busy with consumerism, that the packaging and plastic community has not been known during her childhood, that milk mail has been replaced by milk, and so on. I grew up at this time, and I can totally agree. But why was that? It is the environment that I and my peers were offered by the adult population. How, then, do we today offer young ones who have grown up? That's what this is all about. We are now faced with the issue of who will care for our responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's kind of been answered. It's the kids and teenagers. That's why it's great to see Greta Thunberg, the girl changing the world, being chosen as a person of the year at Time. Now it's time for us to get out of here and do some real surgery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u16	President. I just want to talk about Malta, a country like Iceland. In 2017 a reporter named Daphne Galizia died when a car bomb exploded in her car. Daphne discussed people in positions of influence in Malta, and just before her death, she was discussing the prime minister of Malta and his association with deportations that were used to sell maltian passports to powerful parties. In addition, Daphne had discussed in detail the information that appeared in the so - called Panama Documents that should be well - known to us and that would remove the veil of corruption that reached up to the highest level of maltonne government. In July, three men were charged with the murder of Daphne. During the past few weeks, protests have been made to the maltian Assembly Hall, where prime minister and other officials have been required to resign because of ties with the accused. The Prime Minister of Malta has published that he will resign in January. Daphne's family has published that it is important to be able to investigate the matter without interference from a minister. We need to keep our media tight and to ensure their independence. Like Daphne Galizia, Galizia are an important part of a democratic society. Not long ago, corruption has been removed from the United States, which appears to be at the highest level in the Icelandic government. As a result, the discussion was slandered and the individuals involved. There's no place to pass in this country or anywhere else. We need to support the media and the people behind them and ensure their safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u17	Mr. President. The climate pattern we people are living in these days shows how important it is to secure electricity and have a powerful transport system. In the capital area, people may be concerned, not that electricity falls out, but other concerns that are understandable, to move around, but in many parts of the country it is different. Electricity goes out for a long time and needs to be relied on spare power at diesel stations in many parts of the country, both in the West, and in the North. We are often told about the importance of building electrical transport systems. It is important to make better use of the energy contained in isolated parts of the system, but it is also important to increase electricity delivery security for the population. The workers of electronic energy companies such as Richard and the West have been able to work along with other receivers, police, rescue teams, and others, often miracles under difficult circumstances, in old ice lines that can't tolerate ice or snow, and this work is usually worked almost in the dark and in the mountains under dangerous conditions. It is important that the distribution systems tolerate pressures so that they do not need to be sent to an extremely dangerous situation in order to ensure that there is electricity in entire communities. You need to improve connection. In some cases, the earth's base lines and telephone lines may need to be checked, thereby using electrical energy more practically and intensifies the safety of the user. The main thing is that we need to ensure that electricity security is available to all the people in the country, that electricity will be delivered anywhere in the country. This weatherver reminds us of the urgency of our ability to secure funds to build up the transport system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u18	A respectable president. During the last few weeks, I have tried to explain why people in general are indiscriminate with a Christmas bonus. Why is there one group with which the Christmas bonus is restricted? If we look at how a Christmas bonus has been distributed year after year, and now in the administration of this government, it is clear that the parents of long - suffering children receive 59,748 sums. For Christmas bonus, the unemployed get 83,916 bucks. But the poor and older citizens of this country receive 44.654. What is it in the nature of the government after the administration of such things? Why is discrimination taking place in this group? I also ask, "Why in the world is one taken out and gets a little Christmas bonus, down to zero, if there's a difference between this group? " Place these micro-piercing lice, 44,654K, in conjunction with a negative 180,000K. which we get. It's reduced to zero. It sucks to know that this is also done with holiday pay, and it's done year after year. I don't need to be told, as a minister did, that because it's always been this way, it should be this way. This is the will of the government. It is the will of the government today to have it like this and it is a disgrace to her to leave one group behind. And where is it all counts of equality? This happens most in women and children. Where's the equality at Christmas bonuss and holiday pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u19	Mr. President. I have been at the General Assembly of the Icelanders for just over three years, and I often think about the work of the Parliament or the effectiveness of the council and how we could use our time better to play the important role I know that all members of the council here have a rich desire to do their part. Now the usual time for life is to end things that are often very late, and poorly prepared, with little time to make it better, since it has to be completed before the end of the year. This seems to be quite a routine of the council, both at Christmas and in the spring. There's a lot of things in my mind that we could do here in this room and in cooperation with the executives to make a great deal of it better. First, there would be great effort to strengthen trust between more parts and smaller parts of the council. A lot of the dukes that take place during the election, both spring and Christmas, are based on a deep, long - standing lack of trust between parties, which I think all of us might be able to work to correct. That much might be considered in the Senate, to shorten and make the session more specific, not spending long hours discussing matters that we may agree on, in general, but at the usual time, both in discussions here in the hall and in the processing of committees that are equally important, on issues of great controversy. I think it would be a lot to work to make up for and improve our work environment, to improve the effectiveness of the council, and to make sure that the most important work is being done and that there is plenty of time available to it, especially in the committees where the most important work is being done. [[The president calls.]] It would be wish to see real changes, not merely repeated discussions and traditional arguments at this point in the matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u20	A respectable president. DV is about Will's anonymous fist, claiming that the person standing here is incompetent in the church business because my wife is the chairman of a philosophy of life. In this regard, I'd like to mention seven things, if I get it in time. First, Pirata claims that she never sees herself as incompetent. This is wrong. I personally declared my relationship with interest stakeholders on the right subject a week ago, and I stayed by vote because of it. You have a good reason, too. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson did the same because of his involvement, in his view, with the Ministry of Education at a vote. Second, it does not take my wife to demonstrate my relationship with a developing life - style. I am, as I have repeatedly pointed to myself, the former manager of the fine company. Third, the church meeting and the case discussed here are not the interests of other religions and principles in any way in my knowledge. It is news to me if this matter is not for the National Church and State Fund. Here I fight for the rights and interests of the taxpayers first and only requires that we work with equal terms under the law. Fourth, my decision was primarily political. Even a person's real relationship does not justify the will of another. Fifth, I'm fighting for the law of equality. Is the obligation to fight for the rights of a minority to be entirely unrelated to the same minority? Is a man unable to fight for women's equality if he is married to a woman? Of course not! The idea is preposterous. sixth, I abhor unfair and dishonest agreements that give one religion more privileges than others, not the same as the worship of the religion itself. This should be clear. I don't want to be put in my mouth, and I don't hate the National Church because it's not there. I just want Iceland's religious and biological organizations to be equal, to have the same rights, and to have the same obligations. At the seventh and last, I just don't hold back from acknowledging ties and incompetents, reporting them to my own initiative and sitting by the votes of events. It also includes no shame but, contrary to responsibility. Finally, I'm just saying, I'm happy if we're going to talk more about incapacity and interest. I'd say there's a big improvement in this council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss some questions with the minister. If written reply is requested, the President's minister usually sends it no later than 15 days after shipment. The situation this morning was that the total number of queries was 154, i.e. Five to a month's secretary. The number of responders per month is 91. It is the effectiveness of our administration in response to the inquiry of members of Congress. The mean duration of response for active days is 24 days, not 15. Three ministers will preferably step aside, a travel, industrial, and innovation minister with an average time for active days of 33, education and cultural minister of 29 and foreign ministers up to 27, with only one inquiry. The President is one of the best at this, he's also answered one inquiry. I don't know if that counts completely, but that answer came in nine days, i.e. within the delay. He is the only one who has answered within the 15 days expected in the council. Well, woe for that. This situation is somewhat better than recent conventions, but the situation in these matters has been relatively good around me. Yet, as the council has experienced its disaster side, there are several ministers with unsatisfactory inquiries that have become relatively old, as noted in the recent discussion of the chairmanship of the president of the past. I was thinking about something else. Relatively recently, over ten years ago, changes were made from ten active days to 15 active days, yet we see this difference of about ten active days and up to 25 effective days during the previous council. What should we do in this case when the administrative efficiency is three responses to the Minister of a month, but we send a request for five? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we consider fixing this problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u22	A respectable president. The weather that had crossed the country and is still crossing the land affects its fields and has been difficult to predict. I hope it opens our eyes here in this room, and others who have to take it to themselves, for the importance of infrastructure, e.g. the distribution system of electrical energy, and the importance of response. I want to make this two things a special topic here, because there are now tens of thousands of Icelands without electricity and communications, without basic services that everyone needs to have access to. The energy companies, the rescue teams, the fire departments, the police, the U.S. National Guard and the rural communities, could continue to count those who are trying to cope with this situation. In the meantime, we'll just see out of the window that it's gone down. We have our electricity and everything is going naturally. But that's not exactly the case. It is filled with production companies, farms, and others without these important infrastructures, and all of it is stopped. We always need to consider, even when the sun shines, that the receivers are there, that we have enough receivers, that they are trained enough, and that they have the equipment they need, and that the distribution systems of electrical energy need to be strong enough that even if one new and powerful line falls down, another must be taken in. This is of utmost importance and has a broad impact, and I hope that the storm and the slide of the country opened our eyes and sharpened our view of the importance of these structures.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u23	A respectable president. First, I want to commend our respondents in the country in light of their circumstances. It's safe to say that these good people have been working through the bad weather and have been thinking about it in the last few hours, and I've wondered where we are. I'd like to name our rescue forces and encourage us to continue supporting these good people all over the country. I come up here, a respectable president, to discuss education in the South. According to a recent PISA survey, our students are very active and have faith in their own ability to succeed, which is especially shown in the survey. Much of education is about strengthening the students'belief in their own abilities. This is clearly seen in those graduates from Keilis's university bridge on Ásbek, where many will have second courses for study. By graduation, students will be told how their education has increased their confidence and changed their outlook on life. Mr. President. I work with great teachers every day in the South, and I can say that it's a privilege to work with such hardworking people. In our basic schools in the south there is a very high percentage of children from a foreign background. We need to give full support to our teachers and make sure that their work environment is good. Minister of Education, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, is doing a great job in the seminary. Senator Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter has proposed policies and plans for high school studies in Southnes, supported by nearly all the members of the district council. You could say that everyone here hangs on one thing. I am optimistic that with cooperation, we will succeed in advancing education in Southnes and in increasing the level of education permanently. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u24	Mr. President. Now it's as if I can in my speech, I may be shocked by the routine and agree with a talk given here on the part of the Pirata Parliaments. On the one hand, I have to say that I agree with the Council of Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that he is not incompetent to discuss the national religion that is on the program, since I believe that members of Congress will in general not be incompetent to discuss matters at the council. It is clear that members of the Parliament must not participate in any of their own financial defenses against them, as it is said, but the general members of Congress will not be incompetent. Senators are elected for all kinds of reasons. We do not ask why they are elected, whether they are elected to care for certain interests, parts of the country, classes, or others. It simply does not have to do with their background in this regard, so members in general will not be incompetent to discuss or take part in handling matters at the council. Of course, it is different with the Ministers who are bound by the rules of the administration, but at times they have been inclined to confuse the terms of the administrative rights and then the state of the senators, who, of course, are all others as elected representatives, they make a decision on the basis of political views that they are elected for. Then I wanted to agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson in that I believe it is only natural that it is considered whether due time rules are in harmony with inquiries. I think the Ministry can do better in that regard. [[The president calls.]] But I also think that the council and its members may need to be a little more careful to ask questions that are easier to answer in a short period of time than to inject much distance into the Ministry, as we have seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u25	President. Thirty years ago, when I first heard of the Persian Gulf, I thought it might be near the Gulf. Then, great relief came when things did not turn out that way. Today, children are more blessed with enlightenment and are more involved in community discussions. It's admirable. Aside from the fact that children may have opinions on the earth and their future on it, I have wondered, " Is my care sufficient for all the discussion and responsibilities I give to children? ' We have taken various steps to protect children from outside ideas. The media advertising, school market bans, and social behavior standards are some examples. Of course, while listening to children, we may well agree that today they do not need to see and hear everything we have to do with complex adult life, especially if we consider what distance they have to digest ideas, ask critical questions, and make their own decisions. Yet, it seems that the practice of putting children in a position to have a firm view of complex social issues and asking them in the media about anything that has to do with man and serious matters. President. I put a question mark on this trend, and I wonder if we are sometimes ignoring the rights and protection of children in this regard, perhaps when and because it suits our opinion at times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u26	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with the weather that has crossed the country. There are many serious places in the country, the lack of electricity, the lack of communication, the quality of weather, and bad weather. Unusual levels of weather, high elevation, and temperature have all worked together to make the situation serious, especially when it comes to electrical transmissions. In Skavetir, power has been out for 24 hours. There is a serious concern regarding communication in the northern part of the West. Like all our wonderful people, the storm is still at work. Police, distribution workers, rescue teams, and others are doing important jobs all over the country. For this, we can be grateful. Actually, I was going to talk about customs. We often talk about customs in imported foods as a special phenomenon, such as Grýla and Leppalúði. But is that so? No, like other countries, we do certain products. Toll protection is important in Icelandic production and is its support for the competition for import from countries where there is even another form of support for such production. Tolls are and will be here as long as we are not living in the perfect world of free trade. The time will soon come, for the competitiveness of nations differs from that of relative superiority. Iceland isn't easy in breeding on vegetables. We have clean water and clean energy, but the manufacturing process is quite expensive. At that time, countless numbers are one of the biggest factors involved. The United States government wants food production here. We want to lower the carbon track, so we're buying domestic production. You are often forgotten that thousands are doing food production in this country. They pay taxes and duties as well as the companies who do their manufacturing work here. A foreign company don't pay these taxes on land and they don't do jobs for the people of Húsavík and Hagmanga.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u27	A respectable president. Today you can see anything but the weather of the last 24 hours, as many have done here today. Not everyone has fallen to the grave regarding damage in the current weather. I am grateful for all the preventive work that prevented much damage, such as good weather forecasts, clear warnings and the response of people on the scene, both the responses of people who do their daily work under difficult circumstances, who work to keep the interior parts of society walking from day to day, who are working to ensure the safety of the population and of all the volunteers who have helped others these days. All these people deserve to be commended. A lot of people have a lot of work to do, too. The weather is followed by many challenges, the repair of power lines, the opening of roads, the repair of houses, the repairs of buildings and equipment, the maintenance of heat and heat, the restarting of sensitive computer systems, intelligent equipment, whole manufacturing transporters, flotation, the return of ruts on farms, and the use of cows. The damages needed to be evaluated, to determine what is guaranteed, and to gather information as to whether any of the damages fall outside insurance protection. While we live in Iceland, we need to assume that natural disasters can affect our daily lives, but we also need to take advantage of such events as those and governments to consider where we can take further measures to prevent harm. The government needs to identify where something went wrong, assess possible reactions and plan for infrastructure support, e.g. to ensure improved communication and distribution of electrical energy. While the situation will accomplish much during disasters, all of us need to work together on the consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u28	Mr. President. In response to the industrial and innovation minister's inquiry to Þórarinsson Thorin's son of the Middle Party council, it has previously been reported that the cost of a tunnel and a transduction by the plant of Bakka was costing the state of $3.3 billion. Clearly, then, it is something of great value. Yet, when it comes to operating and maintaining the tunnel, there is a catch that no one wants to know the problem. This one needs someone to take responsibility for his existence. The road has not been assigned money to maintain the road connection between the docks and Back. Hence, it can be reasoned that this is yet another example of government construction. In his day, the so - called then wrote the highest. Minister of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to end the project for more use than PCC and the implementation of the government. Therefore, one would assume that maintenance of the project was not at the hands of the Northern Council. The Kingdom has already declared that its way through the tunnel is responsible, subject to the government, and submit to its supervision, including the government. in response to the EFTA monitoring agency from January 2016 Now, this matter must be cleared for all time, settled a dispute between the Minister and the Council in this matter, if any, and provide funds for the road to allow service to be possible in this important way. The matter is in a knot, and the cost of the road - the main road that falls mainly in winter - affects those who need to use the road. But it points to one another. Mr. President. I hereby challenge the government to treat the Country Council as promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u29	For a time, the president feared that a speaker would agree that the president was responsible, but that was not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u30	Mr. President. The parenthood is the most responsible role in the world. Parents are giving children security, love, and recognition. What, though, if parents fail to do this? Iceland validated the 1992 Children's Covenant and legalized it in 2013. 3 mg. 76. g. The constitution also says: The law of protection and care required by children should be ensured. All too often, however, serious cases arise in the matter of child protection and realize that the vital role of protecting children is, unfortunately, not always cared for. Who will intervene and protect the child? It is obvious that children are to be protected. The role of the Children's Protection Agency, according to the Child Welfare Act, is well defined for both monitoring and management. However, requirements for members of the Children's Disease Control Committee seem to be open. It says that the members of the committees are familiar with their integrity and are well aware of the issues covered by the Children's Protection Committee, about 6.5. It is also to seek that people with special knowledge of child - care issues and the lawyer are members of the committee. Mr. President. If those requirements are actually being followed, how can such issues be compared to the Seltanenes discussed in the media? The fact is, these requirements are not sufficient. If we compare the demands of financial institutions with those on child - welfare committees, however, it seems that we care more about money than about children. I'm not down here minimizing the role of the FDA. Rather, I'm suggesting that the same demand should be applied to those on the Children's Protection Committee. Child welfare committees play a vital role, and we must make a requirement for them, for they are the ones who have the final hope for children who are troubled and in need of help.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u31	A respectable president. In a projection currently located on the General Information and Education Committee, there are things I call the big b- team that I'm very unhappy with, and I'm across the street. It involves legal permission to place limitations on the network, e.g. not host to host host host hosting web pages or anything like that, not a domain registration company hosting a domain, but a middle party, such as phone companies, Internet companies and such companies. I'm against it, and that's why I don't object to subtracting a governmental notice on this matter. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u32	Mr. President. The government is now taking the lead in raising laws on the public, thus increasing index and inflation as shown by the examples in this bill. The public's tax burden is too high, it should be further destabilizing. The Central Party will promote an overview and series of articles showing that there is not everything that seems to be involved in government tax declines. The public is entitled to know what the net tax reduction is, taking into account the many increases in the government in various expenditures. So the company does not vote, but it should be held out that we support December's compensation for disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u33	A respectable president. I just wanted to draw attention to it because a good deal was made, since the budget had been prepared from the Council at the right time, and it was historical, that in the law on public finances it is precisely decided that the payment of the income-employment bill, the ones we address here, is to be completed before any financial settlement is finally paid to the councilroom. We're going to win it with the wrong badges here. We finished the budget first, then we'll take the income part. It's kind of preemptive because there's no way for the council to take any action in terms of government funds after approval of the outposts. So it would be fine if we had a future practice that we followed the official financial laws and finished these income arrangements before we finish the spending gate. It's kind of awkward to talk about finishing the budget on time when we're finishing our income arrangements in mid December.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u34	V.E.G. President. I call attention to the changes inish fashion. 662 submitted by the heads of budgetary and economic and business committees, the addition of a new provision for temporary proposal in the UN budget of 10,000 credits. In addition to December's remuneration for micro-energy and rehabilitation pensioners who have the right to pay such. This is to ensure that the payment of the payment will be tax and inaccessible; further, it can be paid out in December, end-of-the-arts when values such as it sounds and that the bill approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that exact matter as a matter of course. The chairman of the budget committee was talking about. We're talking about a change in bill to legalize various laws because of the budget for 2020. This proposal is about 2019 C.E. due to contributions from budget 2019. I simply want to say, regardless of the subject of the transition, that this is an example of how this government operates. It's a dirty mix and a reding of something completely different from it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u36	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this, mostly because it's under 10,000 bucks. tax and inaccessible to those most in need. I hope this is just the first step in making sure that those who are supposed to get holiday pay and other minimum pay get tax and inaccessible. It's a small amount, but they need every cent. That's why I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u37	Mr. President. I support the cohesion of states, savings, and departments in government, and therefore will support this case, but I have certain comments to that effect. First, I don't think it was enough to decide whether it would be compatible with the traditional standards of modern society whether it would be reasonable to hide one institution so much power as this, to cover up, collect, surveillance, and, in some respects, a ruling authority, customs, maintenance of fines, tolls, and other sources that all are on the same hand, will receive the exercise of the day. Second, I'm concerned about the customs guard myself, which is largely ablaze on the border, keeping an eye on the goods to be viewed and placing on the import fees, and thus preventing the introduction of illegal drugs of any kind. My main focus is that the custody of the border of the state is subject to responsibility. The practice and lack of consultation with the preparation of this case gives me some concern about the results of these unitys. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u38	Mr. President. I rejoice in the efforts of the government and the support of it. This case is not working well. It's done in a hurry. This is done without consultation with one of the future classes to work according to the law. I'm most concerned that the share of customs on the border will not be as good as it will be after this union. I'm worried about that, too, because the Central Party has repeatedly offered proposals to further customs on the border without being cared for. V.E.G. The secretary of finance and his team have submitted all the suggestions, though they have been wise and well-finished. For this reason, because I'm worried about customs on the border after I'm reunited, I can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u39	Mr. President. This is a bill for a change in the law of state, government, and conduct of the National Church, with a lot of things to say. First, I'd like to say that I like the goal of the bill, starting with the way of breaking up the National Church from the State, that the church will be in its own accord and also separate from the state. That goal would be fine unless I had wanted to see better explain how to do this, in what steps, rather than just take this step now without any further explanation. This is especially so because some people are likely to be mistaken, and this would be worse. For example, by reading the bill, it is primarily a matter of not allowing the members of the National Church to be classified as officials and therefore not the employees of the State. It is a very good step in the right direction, one of the steps that must be taken in order to separate kingdoms and churches. However, it is obvious that when we talk about changes in this form, which in many ways rests on the so - called church meeting, there are certain questions about where the rest will be, and in whatever way the State will continue to finance the Church for the long term. There are some questions that need to arise on the surface in connection with this conversation. Since we talk about the church meeting and, in a way, the country's additional agreement about it, we need to ask: Which earth is part of the church meeting? On this question, I understand that the answer was never completely complete. The best attempt to obtain some sort of index was in the 1992 Church Committee report published by the National Church already known as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. Although this report has to do with the property involved, I understand that there is no record of unsurpassed lists of property that should have been transferred to the State by the church meetings and even that it is not even that the state and the Icelandic state agree on its properties. So there is a problem that needs to be resolved. Then there is the next question: How much was the property that the State obtained through the church meeting? It's hard to appreciate. In fact, we have little to base on, except perhaps what appeared in reply to the highest. Economic and financial secretary for a question from what? paritaprevir By permission of the president, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson at 149 C.E. There is no particular list of the lands and churches left behind by the Icelandic State, and the state was signed on January 10, 1997, although it can be referred to church committees as church members. Since certain property or land cannot be considered as a fixed library, it is unavoidable that [...] i.e. inquiry will not be possible to answer. the subject of the inquiry about how much they were worth. So we don't know. The best guess is that it was about a billion years ago. worth it. It is based on this report of the 1992 church property committee, so if these were only 1 billion years old. Well, well, well, we'll look at it today, and it's 4 billion today, that's an interesting conclusion. The question is, What has been paid for these assets for this purpose? I haven't taken it together. Then comes the fourth key question: When will people, especially those who support this arrangement, feel that they have paid enough for those possessions? It is a very independent, totally valid view that some people just want to support the National Church, whereas it is a view that I find normal for us to separate from payment for these assets. This is because when discussing the nature of a contract, the contract must include that something is changing in exchange for a specific amount. If not specified, there is always a problem with having a contract break of some kind. It would be much more neat in every way if we could say: Okay, these assets have been paid for, but to continue with the State Church's position is an independent political decision. I think it's a lot more neat. So, of course, why should only support the State church, not other religions? True, we do so by parishes, and all religions and institutions have access to parishes. They say: Okay, the Church has a cultural role, a inheritance of over a period of 1019 years. All right, but I would say that even then there is reason to support the Association Society in which it tries to promote certain cultural value in Iceland. From then on, we can ask ourselves another question about independence and separation. Today, there are members of the National Church who have spoken for segregation of Church and State, including The Bishop himself if I don't forget. She has said that this could be a good step and that even the independence that the church could receive in full separation would do them good. Of course, the question should be what church members want. I don't think I, who's not a member of the National Church, should have anything to say about that. Because of this, I find the strange expression in the 17th C.E. The bill that says, by permission of the President: ▪ The staff of the National Church [...] maintains the right and duty that the order brings out its appointed time, but in the rest their rights and duties under church regulations. There's the chance that the State can limit what it can do about the duties and rights of its employees, at least For some years, even in an unfair way. At the same time, it could also be a limitation to the State. So also says, by permission of the president: ▪ An Amnesty Act of National Church Priests [...] authorized in Article 3. law on the cost of office for parish priests and their extra works [...] shall hold their value until March 31, 2020. It is saying: Okay, the church is supposed to be more independent by this legal process than its steps are taken, so the nations themselves are not allowed to control certain things, including. of his will, until some time later, but not much later, there are several months and still some time. I feel that this shows the view of the National Church that they are still to submit to authority, including the U.S. General Assembly, which I don't think is positive for the National Church or for the Icelandic State. To put this into perspective, we also need to focus on the new reality of participation, and membership in the State Church has decreased by 25 percentage points between 1998 and 2019. The proportion of people falls from 89% to 65% of the population. I think these numbers are from 2015, but they might be just new. This shows that the importance of the National Church in the minds of the people has been reduced, perhaps not among the individual population. I believe it, and I know that many people are very religious and have strong conviction for the importance of the State Church, as do others with comparable feelings and conviction for the importance of their religions. A major factor is this reduction in something that we must take into account when deciding whether and how to make significant financial arrangements each year toward the National Church. Today, atheism is becoming a more popular attitude, and life - making organizations have developed the weather. Aside from the cultural role of the church, we certainly need to look to an ever greater degree of equality between religions, taking into account their size, history, and other factors. We can do this through the parish account system because parish fees are the means we have decided to finance the business of churches. True, it would even be normal to go one step further and say: Okay, since these are societies, organic societies, and religions, but above all, it might be reasonable for them to have a measure of independence just to collect membership fees, such as other societies and associations. I'm in a lot of my own pals with membership fees. That might be a normal way to get up. All right, we have a parish system that we will use and maybe create some kind of appendix to what supports the cultural importance of certain religions. In any case, we need to keep in mind that these steps are in the direction of an independent State church and that a segregation from the State is good. I must commend the highest. Minister of Justice for daring to begin separating state and church because there will be no easy matter. As I said in the beginning, I would have wanted to see it in a collective way and, in any case, in any case, that information had been made to the council about how it would be done, in the steps and how it would be handled, but I still think the step is good. If we are to take that step, one of our next steps must be to find out how much was to be paid for the churches and what the churches are because we have not yet been paid and what is left to pay. If we have paid too much, it's fine, it's only government support this cultural heritage, but if the government hasn't paid enough, we'll just cut it off, we'll finish it, and then we'll take the political discussion that matters about whether and in what way we're going to support one religion above others. It will be far more interesting than the endless talk of the church meeting because we will no longer have to talk about whether a contract was made 22 years ago was based on the absurd idea that it should be paid indefinitely for a very limited resource. They need to be separated, and we can do it best by finishing this separation and finishing paying up the churches if necessary, then breaking off the church meeting and turning it into a normal political discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. That's exactly what I'm wondering. A senator is getting in. We are here making an enormous amount of contributions to the National Church on the basis of a church meeting where the opposition, i.e. The ground being covered, it seems, is not anywhere defined, either exactly which land is involved or what they were worth at the time of the contract. Then, on the basis of this agreement, a logical contribution to the National Church is made each year into eternity and a comfortable amount of money. Counts 'em out. A senator that if we were to make such a deal today, would this be an assessment of good business practices and government financial laws? We are acquitted and holy to accept this agreement with the reference to something that was done decades ago - but could we make such a deal today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u41	Mr. President. That's a pretty good question. Now I do not recall the wording, but it is under the law on public finances that treaties that do not have specific guidelines for the quality and the like that, which would actually include. to prevent the State from becoming involved in treaties that are thus inadmissible. We have talked about it in this hall that it is perfectly natural that the state and the Council sometimes make decisions in support of political issues. But doing it through such a weak deal that wouldn't resist the law if he were made today--that I understand best, of course, I'm not a lawyer--is just a bad way to win. Of course, we should try to twist off such tactics and try to renegotiate or end this agreement so that it can turn into political support, if we want to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u42	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. I don't think this agreement would pass the government financial law today, in any way. So it might be compared, in effect, that we would decide to change our support to The Kingdom News from annual financial contributions to buying up the residence at undefined prices, but the counter would be pay expenses and cost of the Kingdom News for the future. I can't see how this should in any way support evidence or in any way that can be considered a reasonable way to support the Kingdom Hall, no more than our decision to support the State Church. I think we should rather take our stand on what form we will be supporting the Church rather than living it in the play that this church meeting really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u43	Mr. President. In a way, I have to start by giving commendation. A senator for a good analogy. I've been looking for some analogy that worked, and the thing about buying a house of RUS in the Top Search for an infinite amount of money is perhaps the exact metaphor we need. But I have found this in the government laws on government finance. For 40th. says, with permission of the president: In the work programme agreements according to this article, this shall include: Determine the extent and quality of the work involved in the contract, contract time, conditions for contract payment, monitoring of their implementation and handling of problems. I don't know that any of these things are at the church meeting. True, I do not recall that it was published in a complete way, so we have actually just met and this from what has happened over the years. Maybe someone can fix me if I'm wrong. But at least we have the added contract. He does not solve the problems that exist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u44	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech. I felt that he was a good prisoner in his statement about the state's supreme position toward the church at the time of the church meeting, i.e. that there should be an agreement without a precise identification. I'm sure the price would have been controversial at the time too. But there are two things I'd like to ask. A senator about. First, if he thinks it's a good idea to bring the church meeting together with RUSV, are we going to pull the church out of a commercial market? Second, where it is. The senator said that there would be a need to separate possessions before the written process, at the same time. A senator speaking of a form of property? Does he really want to take possession of the property of those in the church meeting by means of a form of property? I want him to shed light on these two things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u45	Mr. President. Perhaps I will begin by saying that I was corrected by someone else. Senator. The church contract was published, but none of what I mentioned was mentioned in it. With regard to the supreme situation. A senator speaks of them, I see them just the other way around. The church certainly gave up all its possessions, that I understand, without ever having to specify who they were. I feel like there's a higher standing with the National Church back then. And not just that. Not only did she not get to reveal the properties involved but she was signed on an infinite amount of money, i.e. A fixed payment to an infinite number of years in that contract. So, yes, take the church out of advertising markets or rather, at any rate, try to limit the religious inculcating of children in particular. [[The president calls.]] For property review: We're not talking about property recordings, these assets have been paid for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u46	President. Well, that's a good thing. A senator spoke about inculturation, for perhaps the greatest missionary in Iceland today is an unbeliever. But that's another story. Hv. A senator repeatedly spoke of cultural roles, but he did not speak of assignments, roles, or services. Hv. A senator said that the church went so uncondemnedly out of handing these assets over. Then I can point it out. A senator has one example. It is earth in the Valley of the River, which is now under government custody but was in church custody. When it was the time for Crumbishna to be built, a price of water rights came to this earth, where the State was actually making deals with itself but had agreed with the church before. The water - rights convention is such that not one person with these rights would think of selling away such rights for the reproach specified there. [[The president calls.]] So I'll give you one example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u47	Mr. President. Yes, this case from the River Valley may well be another case of negotiations that would not pass the law on public finances today and should be a reason to consider this. The government has not always protected its interests properly if a developer is correct. With regard to service rendered by the National Church, this is absolutely correct. The church provides a great deal of service, as well as other religions. In recent years and this year, I have had religious practices with many religions, both here and abroad, where there is some form of service. Of course, it is normal to be paid for that service as well as normal, for example. As has been said about funerals, there is even room for private people to enter that market. But I have not yet seen any example that the church is necessarily better equipped to perform all this service, such as the United States. Salvation. [[The president calls.]] It is usually in the hands of psychologists far better than clergymen, with less limited experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech. The fact is that there is an acceptable discussion that Piranus offers about how they speak of a so - called church meeting. I get into it in my talk later in the discussion. But I'd like to direct two questions to a Smári bit more than that. First of all, because I know he's a very amateur of mathematics: what do you think? A senator who would be -- this, of course, is a very informal survey, to be said in a mild way - a normal price for 1% in Iceland? It's nice to remind you that it's not long since there was a funeral shop in the East where about 1% of the land was under. What does that count? A senator worth 1% of the country all over? On the other hand, the simple question is: What? Senator for negotiations?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u49	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to be careful of correct comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u50	Mr. President. I wonder what language it is that Pirats and I stand for that won't hurt. A senator so much. I tried to be as perfunctory as I could in this discussion, and I'd like to be if that were true. A senator would do the same. As for the question of 1% of the country, we both know, and that I think all of us, that land is very different according to what is in the country and where it is, e.g. may not be as valuable as a four - foot [3 m] Malarferi on the central highlands as a square - foot [3 m] in the Qunos, on which a tall building has been built. This means I can't evaluate this one for 1%. However, it has been done. This was done in 1992 by a church committee that evaluated all the property that the Church then possessed at just over a billion dollars. Perhaps it would be the opening point for this price. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u51	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy will just answer me later on if his position is that we have a deal. As the senator rightly points out, of course, a country is indiscriminate. Randomly speaking, the whole park town, I think, stands on an old church site, Acdine, where I live, stands as it lies on an old church earth, and so on. Hence, there will be an interesting recycling if one is going to take that step. But at the same time, I want to make comments. A senator spoke of earlier with reference to the current legal law on public finances. It just doesn't matter in this discussion whether the contract made in 1996 or 1997 is a law of public law today. What kind of bullshit is this thing that's being offered to us? I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why would he want to take the discussion into consideration? [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that the law on government laws today is of no importance to this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u52	Mr. President. I'd like to point it out. A senator is to read 40 st. the law on public financial matters, which clearly list the conditions that contracts need to meet in order to be legal under their laws. The government needs to be careful about negotiations - and, of course, treaties. Of course they must stand, including Review regulations of agreements. They must also stand. When there is a review law in the contract and the contract is illegal on the basis of the government's legislation on the agreements to follow, it is the role of the government to ensure that the contracts are legally updated. I don't know exactly what I'm being accused of when I'm being told that I'm dragging this into some mess. I'm just saying, the state isn't supposed to pay an infinite amount of money for some particular land. We're supposed to pay normal, moderate, fair price, and then be done. [[The president calls.]] Then we should turn it into a political discussion whether and how we support the State Church.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u53	Mr. President. It's interesting to listen to what's happened. A senator, and I thank him for his speech. He's obviously been thinking about it. Of course, it's a very important step being taken here. If the stage that succeeded with the 1997 church meeting was a cohesion, perhaps we can be talking about legal separation now when the employees who are at risk are hired by the Church and the order is no longer spoken of but is employed. But because I noticed a word exchange regarding the fact that contracts are being held: the pay that the church is set apart by the church meeting, which has often been mentioned here, was reduced in the wake of the collapse. Counts 'em out. A senator, in view of the view that treaties are to be held, should the government render what is lacking because of these limitations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u54	Mr. President. It's because I understand that I made it up to a considerable degree. This is also a strain in Part A, if I don't forget, so there are certain conditions that fit in there. Perhaps the most important point is that a full understanding was in the collapse of the National Church that it was being reduced in this way. I understand it was done with their consent there. They were not made up of. They may just have been shouldering community responsibility by accepting a little contraction for a while. Now that it's been rewarded, I think it's been made up to a great deal of it. So I think it might not be important in this regard. It remains what is important in this, that perhaps, this is a separation to the table and bed that was made in 1997, but I'm not sure that this is a law-enforcement in which one person is in fact paying for everything, all the other person's expenses permanently, and that is not a proper legal divorce in my opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The amount of money involved here is naturally very significant. Hv. A senator pointed to a particular source, perhaps a good thing to know, and especially because he says that in 1992, I don't remember what year it was, if the church people in question were evaluated in their time value, probably in 1 billion. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason reviewed it to Gardens and Skakki, i.e. That is why Aranesp, standing on a church site, could be added to the localnes. In case of a moment. A senator would just consider the real estate fees paid in these rural communities, how reliable and realistic does he consider this estimate to be $1 billion? Which every man sees is just absurd. [[The president calls.]] I remind you that the Þingles are in there, and what's the value of the Þingur?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u56	Mr. President. I think I have to agree that this evaluation is unlikely to be highly reliable. But the other thing is, I'm not a valuator of property. I don't have a basis to determine if your evaluation is correct. But the other thing is that the park town was, I think, sold from the church long before the church meeting was established so that it should not be included in this, and also on none of the increase in prices in the country after the church meeting went into effect, except for the benefits, i.e. price updates, in part, because they are something that was done on the part of the State after the possession of the land moved to the State. Naturally, we don't count them. As far as the other point is concerned. A senator - I drop out a bit, I don't remember who he was. [[The president calls.]] [[Set up a contract.]] Yes, we have contracts, that would be good, and if we did, we would imitate them. Yes, the revision is every 15 years according to the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u57	Mr. President. First, I want to say something about it and criticize the lateness of this matter into the Senate Hall. The government had to rely on variations to set up the matter, and I feel that it is critical, as we would draw attention to the occasion when we were looking for variations. Now the Church isn't new, and this additional contract doesn't hold, it's from September 2019, and it's still a church meeting itself, so I find it very strange that such a big matter is presented on the final days of the council just before Christmas break. These are the practices that I hope we won't see much more in this room because as I have pointed out, we've been guilty of a dramatic error in the legal process. I think we need to take the time we need when it comes to these matters as well as others. In addition, we are asked to accept two types of expenses on one side of 5.4 billion because of laws that do not last, and then 800 million on non-law projects. It's no small numbers, and I think all in the audience can agree, because we just need to be careful, and that's what we need time to do. Mr. President. This bill suggests changes that are thought to be necessary to cover the above - mentioned additional contract between state and church, where the contract puts the main difference between the Church and all its employees and employees, as well as the pay paid on January 1, 2020. The changes, according to the bill, are primarily aimed at achieving that goal. Since the employees of the National Church listed at 1st. Section 60. law on status, government, and conduct of the National Church will no longer be considered officials or members of the State. Rather, the members of the National Church are being proposed to number four. Twenty-two. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/96, are eliminated, which states that the bishops of Iceland and the consonants, the testers, and the clergy of the Church are classified as officials. I, however, wondered about administrative laws in connection with this change. I don't know if anyone has answered this question: Will government laws apply to the decisions of these employees or not? We know that administration laws take place, and according to them the law can make decisions made by private citizens if these decisions are essentially administrative decisions. Thus, a private member who has received official authority may fall under the regulations of government law. I wondered if by this change government laws will not apply to these members of the National Church. It would be informative if someone who knows it answered it. I wondered about the decisions taken by the priests. It may have to be considered specifically, but is it by nature administrative decisions or not, choosing and rejecting who you are married to, or whatever the nature of that decision? It is a question that I do not know the answer, even though I have learned my administrative rights to Páll the Hreinsson of Cleans, and he taught it quite well. It would be interesting to know whether these decisions were essentially administrative decisions, which, of course, are essential to making such decisions. Government law has many rules, and especially the rule of 90. That's a moderate rule, that's a rule of study and direction, etc. It would be interesting, then, to know whether priests in the first place are already under administrative law or not and whether the change that the bill involves changes in some way or whether these are unnecessary questions on my part. Second, I would like to mention some financial matters. We see that the church's financial affairs, whether in the budget or in the budget, may always seem to cover up. Economic contributions to the National Church increased from budgets 2019 to the budget bill by 2020 by less than a billion dollars. The explanation for the expansion can be sufficient to meet an agreement, but here I am considering a change between budget 2019-2020. I know, however, that it was added to the Church of America last year to financial aid. But as we have often discussed in this hall, there are funding, in contrast with budgets, only to deal with temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget. In recent years, for the past 2016, 2017, 2018, the church has received funds. We are often told that this will be the last year that the Church hangs up in financial aid, but somehow it always does it again. It's much cleaner if they think they're fulfilling this agreement - and of course we're supposed to have an agreement, I'm not saying anything about it - but at home, in financial terms. In other words, money came when the budget was submitted in the fall, but additional coins came in place of a greater proportion of legal committees in a special legal arrangement that says, on the permission of a president: A new proposal for increased contributions to the National Church totals a total of 246 billion. K. based on an additional contract of state and church. It is not a new agreement. It is a further development of financial relations between State and church. As a result, there is no overlap with public financial laws. The arrangement ends uncertainty in financial relations between the state and the church, but for a few years the donations have been corrected. - We're getting a little reimbursed, as they say. The best part of the agreement is to make changes that meet the changing environment to make decisions at the church's salary associated with changes in the Council of Elders. Then in the agreement it will be expected to be reviewed after 15 years, including because of the number of members in the National Church, its role in society, and its ministry. All right, the state was responding by contributions from the budget and then by making a change. But that is not enough, for there is also money in budgets that are on the schedule later today or at least This week. And it's time for the budgets, but the budget bill says, by permission of the President: The amount of money available for the seminary is estimated to increase by 1,072.7 million. K. which can be divided into three groups. First, 800.6 billion. K. increase in contributions to the National Church, and thus a church meeting is performed in the same way as in 2015-2018. This is an increase in accordance with the results of a calculus used to calculate donations according to a contract made by state and church. The amount of money that corresponds to the pay of the bishops of Iceland and the dedicated bishops, the 138 active priests, and the highest test of the National Church, as determined by the U.S. Council and the remuneration of 18 employees of the Bishop's office, should be paid. Second, 306.9 million. K. increase in contribution to the National Church to meet the impact of a court order in the clergy's pay in 2017, which went back on January 1, 2017. Third, contributions to the seminary are reduced by costs of 34.8 million. K. in association with a reassessment of the number of subjects in documented religions. The unit price of parishes was determined by law at 930. This year, each person 16 years of age and older, is unchanged. I'm just explaining that the church's budget seems to be a regular hanging in this room and in various ways, whether it is in the budget or in the budget or in the budget or in some other way. I hope we won't see any new funding on the one that's been made here. Investment is not intended for this phenomenon, in my opinion, because the terms of budgeting are very clear. Mr. President. I would also like to call attention to the most interesting answer to a question asked by a justice minister. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, of the 1997/1998 church convention. That's where the question is. Senator: ▪ What has been the total cost of the state funds at the 2017 prices of the 1997/98 Congregational Conference? And the Minister of Justice answers: ▪ In agreement with the State and the National Church's Convention on Churches and Pays of Priests and Peoples of the Church, these contributions are set apart from the Episcopal Office and the Christian Funds. The overall production in 1998-03/2017 has reached over 39 billion dollars. (For fully formatted text, see publication) I think this number is now 42 billion, in new response as well. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson received 42 billion 2018. It's not short numbers, it's fascinating, and it's nice to have them in front of us. The senator also asks: ▪ Has the decision to evaluate the future debt of state funds, and if so, what is it? As indicated in the answer to the 1st will be made by the Church Meeting of 2.4 billion in 2017. The Senator continues to ask: Is there anything to eat of the property that's changing according to the agreement...? The minister's answer is: ▪ There is no assessment of the assets that change according to the agreement in view of the payment of a government fund. ◯ Otherwise, I just refer to this answer and another answer that is new to the answer I'm talking about here. Yet, the point is very interesting. In the minister's answer, there's a difference. until it is impossible to determine the value of all the agriculture, estate and land that belong to the state's funds according to the agreement. This is true not only of the value of these assets back then but also of their value today. Mr. President. So many were words. I would like to say before I open my case, of course, that I love the National Church. I have enjoyed her service through good times and bad. I can appreciate its role and role and the unselfish work she has performed in our society, whether it involves culture, religion, or the well - being of people. Of course, I can say the same about many other religions in our community. I also want to point out that the church has indeed made mistakes in its work and language, and perhaps it is difficult to remember how the church reacted to the discussion of homosexual rights. But I would like to quote only at Hjalti Hugason, professor of theology at the University of Iceland, in the summer, by permission of the president: ▪ Following the 2008 economic collapse, many were badly affected. The Southnes became the worst outside, but many people lost their jobs in the area. The Church of Cheflavík helped people through the worst of times and set up a powerful welfare fund. ▪ She grabbed the people who were in the greatest trouble, and that winter, about a hundred schoolchildren received free meals in school every day of the week, for some month, paid by the church, answered Hjalti Hugason [...] In modern times, we often find it difficult to determine the role of the church. Is it supposed to be part of the welfare system? Should Christianity be emphasized in schools? Do we have any need to exercise our faith? Are the people of Iceland no doubt many people ask themselves. We cannot live up to the fact that the Church has been part of the culture of the Icelanders for a long time. Christianity has been a part of Icelandic culture since the birth of the populous idol Ljósvetningagoði of Light, saying that the Icelandites should become a Christian nation. A little over half a century later, the Reformation took us from the Catholic religion to the Protestant religion. The church was the first source of education as well as health care in this country. She also had the role of being a pillar in the social life of the people and was the churches of the country's most important meeting places. Times change, and the people with them, and now the church doesn't have the place in society that it did. Said the church came into the lives of most people in quite a variety of ways. Since then, there has been a fairly rapid change in that subject and no doubt the role of the church varies from person to person. He says that individualism changed the church's place. During the interview, we also speak with the President Henry philosopher Henrysson by permission: ▪ During the 1960's, world attitudes became a big change. Alexander Henrysson, philosopher and scholarly philosophy at the University of Iceland, says that Western communities began to rely on the church to a lesser extent as a moral compass. ▪ We see this in so many areas, and what has to do with the church's former belief, in so many lands, a guiding role, was regarded by the church's moral teachings. Around 1968, all of this moves on. This view is formed in Western lands, where society has its own values. We see this in many areas, such as in equality, in animal attitudes, and in sexual orientation. The new criteria do not originate with the church, and religious leaders are not prominent as publishers of the standards that eventually come to be on top of it, to be known as Henry. Henry says that the church is primarily one of the subjects in the discussion, but he does not allow it. The church participates in discussions over a number of matters that will not exist in any church relationship, such as equality and environment. Mr. President. I see my time is coming to an end. I'd like to finally say, of course, we won't be able to finish this discussion today about what the future of the Church will be. That's a discussion we have to take anyway. Freedom of religion and equality is guaranteed in the constitution and must not be empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u58	A respectable president. In this year of 2019 C.E., the amount has reached about 45 billion. It goes up by 3 billion or so every year. At some point, our comments were made in the Committee's inquiry that the reason the church was always entering the funds would be for the State to maintain a fixed contract with the church on contracts at this point. Very interesting. But I would like to discuss this strange arrangement, administratively, as well. A senator went out earlier, that the Church as an A-part agency has an exclusive deal with the state as part of which it is part. It's such a certain ring-in-the-box thing. I was wondering how this works. There's the state with its own exclusive contract with itself. There's some sort of circle-infestation in there, that you only have to scratch your head over how things work out when everything goes down and especially if you go out into these changes, go into church independence, how the commitments that the State really makes to itself really go along with or without.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u59	Mr. President. I don't really know how to answer that. Of course, the church is just an independent legal body with which the state is making such a deal. I haven't really gone into the agreement in particular. The church itself has called for this independence. But as the situation is today, we have a national church, and according to national law, the majority of the people want regulations in the Constitution of a national church. In fact, there are differences of opinion, and I think it would be most successful for the nations to become independent. We see that the religious and religious records of the Icelanders are changing. I'd like to mention, too, first of all. A senator mentioned the money raise, that I simply think it's abused in this case, and I know why. A senator may agree with me on that. He's been very busy discussing these matters on a budget committee and good if he's not on the so - called subcommittee of the church meeting I'm not in, I'm not going to go very far into it because I don't know exactly. And either way. A senator is talking about a deal with himself, which may well be the way the state is using glasses. A senator is in. But there is an agreement, and as we have been told here, there is, of course, a agreement. The agreement can be viewed in a way that makes it practical. These are high numbers and peculiarities, that men make these agreements without having some kind of food or price worth of the assets that were under them. But this was done in 1996, 1997, and 1998, and that is what we may be responding to here. Of course, we, as guardians of taxpayers or taxpayers, need to view these Greek eyes as all the other government agreements that are involved and financed by tax dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u60	A respectable president. You see, it's not like the Church is an independent lawyer, you can't find the church in a company file. All church employees are government employees, and it's interesting, I think, how the deal is, in the end. The Bishop comes to, and gets all of this, and divides it here and there, not under government supervision that certainly carries out tax money when it comes to all things and concerns them, for example. Especially today's official financial laws and the government obligations regarding the issue of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u61	Mr. President. I just need to be taught. I thought the Church was an independent legal body with a social security number like any other religion. Such communities are expected lawyers, but it may well be that I am wrong in this regard. But I'm not sure they're legal, maybe a lot of lawyers, yes, but good. [[The point is, maybe a lot of lawyers.]] First thing. A senator mentions the position of employees, making the bill exactly the change that the church's employees no longer become government employees but the staff of the National Church, as it says. That's why I was only considering this in the context of the administrative law. And again, I just ask the sacred questions, "Will the administration laws not reach the employees?" Did they not get it at first? It is interesting, then, to wonder in this context that the right environment of the workers is being changed in this way by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u62	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Unlike other speakers, there was trouble. A senator something about the bill, not just about something else and old. Because of the question that this is not enough time: I'm not defending it. I wanted to have a better time. But to me, it's very simple. It's just that this connection is being cut off, the church's employees won't be officials. That doesn't take much time on my mind. However, in terms of the administrative law, it is this way, as in any other matter, that we do not always know how it works with non-political government employees, public employees. Some of their decisions can be heard under administrative laws. We know about Landsnet. At times, they are assigned a special task that is directed by law. It depends on the law on the institution or company. But we will never understand exactly what decisions can be considered administrative decisions in that sense. It's appreciated every time, I guess. Besides, I'd like to thank you very much. A senator for mentioning what others have not done here in a previous talk, what activity is being carried out in the National Church, and the duties of the church above any other congregation. It doesn't matter what congregation older citizens are as church help. They're all cared for. This is an enormous work I didn't know about when I was a young man and, of course, just wanted to separate state and church and just completely rule it out. My attitude is greatly changed when I get to know the activities of the National Church and other Christian congregations that you know. [[The president calls.]] Great and noble work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u63	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. Senator. I've had very good experience with the National Church, as I could in my speech. I've sought it both in good health and in war. I can clearly see the role she has played in my life as well as in others. Of course, others may have experience with other religions. All right. It is freedom of worship, and people are to exercise their faith only in the way they choose. I don't intend to get involved in other people's religions. The Church is an important part of our community, whether it is in religious life, culture, well-being, etc., as I could about it, and I don't want to agree with that word, has anyone told those who do down the work that the Church has done in Iceland. It's very important, and I think we should keep it up. Only the administrative law. Yeah, I think it's so interesting. Maybe a what? A senator, a prospective lawyer, informed me: A senator that the government law applies to members of the National Church? Government law states that when governments decide about the rights and duties of humans, the law applies. But then we know - Páll Hreinsson taught me - that this field of values can reach private people if they take administrative decisions, use official authority. The doctor in a private room may need to submit to a administrative law or to a set of values. It is interesting to wonder: " Are the priests in that position too? Suppose a priest refuses to marry a virgin couple. Is that his right? Is he breaking the government law? It would be interesting if it were. A senator might respond for one minute just after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the one minute. I don't think the government law is in general relevant to this case, but if anything in the National Church can protect rights and duties, that decision can be considered a administrative decision. This is true of many institutions and societies, I called Landsnet. It was now only a court decision at some point, I think, that a decision there was a legal administrative law because of its nature in relation to the legal obligation of the society. There may always be boundaries in this, and it will measure each time. But I'm not worried about handling this bill. I think it's relatively simple and clear. It's breaking off the connection that I feel is all right with, and it can even strengthen the Church of America. But I am not ready to give up support while she has these responsibilities and cares for these responsibilities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his thoughts and answers. I find this interesting because a large part of the bill is just about not letting National Church employees be government employees anymore. Government laws need to be met by government officials when they accept administrative decisions. Are we making some material adjustment in this regard? That's why I said we might need more time because maybe experts need to be able to inform us on this matter of government law or not. This can be important. But don't forget, we don't just have legal rights, we also have unwritten rules in government rights and 90s and things like that and, of course, tie up regulations that are found in the Constitution of priests like everyone else. In this context, it is interesting to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u66	A respectable president. I'm not sure I understood why. The senator's relationship with Church and State is complete, and I especially have the contact that appears in the constitution. Hv. You see, a senator said that in a constitution freedom of worship and the equality of religion or religious organizations is guaranteed, and I disagree. It's equal to law 65. g. often in conflict with 62. ..... The State Council itself. More than once, courts have been involved in judging and actually evaluating the two branches. It seems to me that it contradicts having a special national church that enjoys special privileges beyond other religious groups at the same time as it is supposed to be equal to law. It doesn't sound like a senator's attitude to me that this special position should be taken away. Hv. For example, for the same reason, a senator went out specifically in the 2012 National Bank and, for the same reason, that national pay. I vote - and hope that I get to vote - with a bill to a new constitution that contains a national law because I believe that it should be completed. On the other hand, I have a sincere view that it is totally unnatural and unacceptable, really, that one religion is receiving special support. I want a clear answer from what. A senator as to whether he accepts it. No matter what his obligation to enforce the national willingness of 2012, I would like to know what the senator himself feels about this strange relationship in 62rd. The constitution. I especially mention it because people here speak well of the State Church and its activities. That's good and good. I'm not making any comments. I just don't think it has anything to do with whether it's supposed to be a special constitution support. It is filled with other religions that also perform wonderful work, Christian, and Islamic, faithless, and God - fearing activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u67	Mr. President. I've supported the separation of state and church. The union has a policy list to support the separation of state and church. But also: If the nation wants to be a member of the State Church, it is probably entitled to do so. The results of the vote show that 57% of the nation wanted regulations on the State Church. Of course, we submit to them. I agree with it. One senator said that it would be wish for a man to comply fully with that vote. There were other things in this national payment than just the church. About an equality. Of course, there is freedom of worship in Iceland. It matters. It's freedom of worship, and I totally understand why. A senator is talking about a violation of equality. There is one important factor, however, when it comes to the standard of equality, there is a conflict between people when they are dealt objectively. It is a misunderstanding to think that whether it is found in the Constitution or in the administration, or in the unsurpassed system, there will be one way or another, an equality. We stand apart every day in this room, both in tax law, in the reform system and in other matters so that there can be discrimination, that is not a violation of the Constitution, if it should be done objectively. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is here saying that this discrimination in religious groups does not last. That's a good point, and I'm listening to that argument, and I can say that it can be a question of whether the special relationship the state has with the National Church, one religion, may be a potential violation of equality in an indiscriminate manner. Yet, I believe that few would rely on them to claim that the current political system of the Church is a violation of a political system. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u68	A respectable president. The political system in Iceland is not a violation of the Constitution today because of 62rd. The Constitution says it's a national church. If it wasn't a law, I believe that the arrangement we have would be broken by moths 65. gr. ... whoconsequences for the law, regardless of to the belief. But that's why I want to cancel 62rd. I don't think this discrimination's okay. In terms of substance discrimination, I think a senator is absolutely right. On the other hand, I still have no sound reasons for having a national church over my head. Her life is quickly filled with important and satisfying activities. Of course, she does care for the people who want to use that service, and I don't belittle them. It is important, just as the service of the Association Society is important for people who believe in superstition, just as the mosque service is important for people who embrace Islam, etc. I'm not gonna slow it down. There is just no reason to discriminate against a particular religion. The same would be true of the majority of Icelanders as a Christian or more part of the Icelanders'will - if we were to put the same thing at a fair trial or who should enjoy freedom of expression, it would be very obvious that there was a very gross violation of the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's so important to get rid of 62 degrees. From the Constitution, in order to establish the same value as religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u69	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, I have so far supported the separation of Church and State. I've been thinking about this, maybe you're only becoming more conservative in this regard, and I think it's important that the discussion also speaks of the important work that the Church is doing. But I also know that many other religions do likewise, as do non - religious societies, but they do some values or beliefs that are invaluable. But you can also wonder whether the church itself should not just fight for the separation of State and church. I once heard that argument. A person who did not want to separate State and church because he felt that the church would then be too powerful in his missionary work. That's a view in itself. I think it's fine that we live in a secular society. I'd rather not see us in this hall mix a great deal of religion in our politics. It's not good, and I think the majority of political parties agree to try to keep religion out of this room in one way or another. [[The president calls.]] Nevertheless, the Church is still that fact in our society, and this agreement exists. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a debate that we don't finish today, but we need to keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u70	A respectable president. It is important to say that we are discussing the status, administration, and practices of the National Church, while the additional contract in the United States and the National Church is a larger context in this matter, and we need to paint the big picture in order to understand exactly what this is all about. At first, it is necessary to keep in mind the laws on public finances, especially those of 1 and 5 mg. 40. g. The law. How Would You Answer? mgUnable to connect to POP server In Part A it is permitted to agree to the minister and the local minister, to make negotiations for construction, business, or other fixed tasks for longer than one year, but no longer than five years. 5 mg. says: In the work programme agreements according to this article, this shall include: Determine the extent and quality of the work involved in the contract, contract time, conditions for contract payment, monitoring of their implementation and handling of problems. It is very important to keep this in mind because it is the firm that the government is to respect when it makes a deal on behalf of all. In its work form, a church property committee, in Iceland, 1597•1984, has a detailed review of church meetings committee analyses. There is a long, detailed list of church property, which has not been found evidence that was legally sold from the church. That list is about 350 pages. long with the disintegrated church property by county and an account for the division of land between church, farms, and partnerships and after real estate evaluations in three different ways; church barns, housing, and breeding. The total income is then put together for each county and for the whole country at the end. It shows that the entire church, which has not been proven legally sold from the church, is evaluated at 1,072,774,128k. The price is not highlighted, but the report is published in 1993 and may be assumed at the price of 1992. It means, based on the prices of 2018 at 45.8 and the prices of 1992, that the balance of church property estimates is less than 3 billion. in 2018. In my inquiry to the secretary of finance and economics, it was stated that from the approval of the church meeting and through the year 2018, the Icelandic state has paid 42 billion on account of the agreement on an updated price. So now we have some 45 billion. This is a total of 3 billion church property at an updated price, 42 at 2018. At the beginning of the discussion of this matter, we discussed the principal seat of these churches and the way the church meeting was just growing from them. However, considering the church's headquarters in 1992, 1 billion were challenged by anyone who is justifying an increase of about 3.5 billion per year, which is now in the additional meeting. With 4.2% of the interest in the apartment loan fund, it meant a headstay of over 83 billion. Although real - estate evaluations are not completely accurate, this is the most accurate assessment we have, and although various experiments have not been made, there has been no reply from the Ministry of State on the difference between real estate and real value in general, despite the fact that it should be easy to see the difference between real estate evaluations and plagiaries as to the sale of the land. No answer. It must also be remembered that while the church had 25% of its land at some point, the church meeting of the remaining holdings of the church at the time of the accord was turned. The most accurate information we have on which land it is found is found in this church church headquarters article on the property of the church. All other lands were legally sold in one way or another. So in 1992, there are still billions of real estate assessments, and no one is about to tell me or anyone else here that the world has been selling at 80 times its real estate value. Even though we are talking ten times the difference, 3 billion real value now or 30 billion at the price of 2018, we are still far from the interest load paid for the church meeting. So that argument simply does not think. It must also be noted that the value of the ground could not be calculated today because it would be regarded as an increase or a loss of respect from the time the State received possession of the earth. It is not fair for the church to make money on the increase in prestige or loss of repercussion. Thus, we are always focusing mainly on the list of ground produced by the Church Committee and their expected value in 1997, why it is now, that has not yet been answered despite repeated questions. The fact of the matter is that the state received property at the time of the church meeting, and despite repeated questions, no Ministry has been able to answer the property given on account of this contract, despite the opinion of the Church Committee. As far as we can see, these assets are listed in the Constitution and in the state's founding interest accounts without commitment. It is also discussed in the reply of a minister to the question of why. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. With President's permission the question was: Did the Ministry consider the real estate profile of the Earths from a real estate file for the signing of the earlier agreement...? The answer, by permission of the president, was: A record of the properties of the agreement was given. - Refers to church owner's product. This is extremely clear. This makes it even more interesting when this list of further inquiries is further addressed that no one is ever able to know the properties of the church meeting. It's just really weird when it comes down to it. There's something pretty rotten in all of this, I have to say, and we've got to figure this out. The result must be based on several factors; taking into account official financial laws, taking into account the 62rd paragraph. The Constitution, taking into account the renovations of property and other government service. The result must be divided by these factors. It is inevitable that it will end with the complete production of property. Then there will be church service, and the Kingdom will be fulfilled in the year 62 C.E. The constitution. That was the future agreement. Many of these church meetings have been screwed up. It has not been kept in mind the obligation of the earth. The Ministry of Economics should have kept in mind that account, and Government thought should have made a comment that the obligation to make a commitment to that property had to be stemmed. Added to this, there is an additional challenge that is being done in a new and more strict legal environment. Yet, it is somehow the old way. A comment on this continues to be made in the Court's Review Report of 2018, where it is stated, by permission of the President, by the National Church's request to the State's Office of Accounting from May 17, 2018, on the evaluation of financial commitments of the Icelandic Convention and the National Church from September 4, 1998, and on its impact on the founding of the Church and State Fund. It also states that these aspects of public financial legislation should be completed in 2019 C.E. As everyone sees, that year is about to end. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to try to cram a contract into the throat at the General Assembly, which has a 15 - year revised law despite a five - year maximum contract of 40 c.E. it's a government law. The Subcommittee suggested that there be some details to be considered on this contract that would be considered by the General before it was granted. This bill we're discussing here is one part of that deal. These factors include: A financial committee is given a clear view of how the additional contract will pass on public financial laws. Don't come. A financial committee receives memos on the promotion of the Ministry and Government Reviews as a result of the 1997 property transfer. Don't come. The financier receives a memo on pay rates in the state of the administrations and how to support 90% of the pay ratios in the additional contract. The answer has been answered orally, not exactly. A financial committee receives a memo that explains why the requirement for maintenance is not expected. This too has been answered orally, not in detail. A financial committee receives a memo that explains why the contract length is longer than five years. Don't answer that. A financial committee receives a memo on the commitments of the State to 62rd. The Constitution will be. Don't answer that. A financial committee will get a memo on how the contract costs are in line with the financial agenda. Don't answer that. A financial committee receives a memo covering the scope and quality of the work involved in the contract, contract time, the terms for contract pay and their implementation. This is determined by a fifth mg. 40. g. it's a government law. Don't answer that. Since the church contract, a financial committee receives an overview of the land that the State has given to the church. I suppose we all want to be good public money in this room. Based on the content of the church meeting and this additional meeting and the inability to answer questions, there are a number of issues on this agreement and on the content of the secondary meeting and on the law on public finances, members of the Parliament must pause and ask whether we are doing it well. We must want to know how much of the agreement goes on making up the assets that moved to the State with the agreement. Surely we want to know how much the State is suggesting because of the constitution of the laws to support and protect the Church. We must want to know what the State's service is buying from the National Church so that we can monitor that we get what is paid for and that other people may be able to offer to do that service in a less expensive and efficient way. As noted in the Official Review Report, the Church also wants to know this, expected to be able to record its commitment correctly under the laws on public finances as an official agency in Part A. Of course. These are the minimum requirements for modern living. The government simply cannot offer this additional contract to the General Assembly, especially on such short notice. As mentioned here in the discussion, there are various opinions about administrative and rights in exactly this bill that would definitely need to be discussed before the year's completion. It's not to be offered to the Council, it's perfectly obvious. Similarly, if the additional contract was scraped out, the government will not be able to offer a private church agreement. This agreement was adopted in 15 years, and now we are in the new legal environment of public finance, and the State is simply obliged to renegotiate according to current requirements. Of course, negotiations are to be made. The church meeting was performed by law but is now in effect. That contract has 15 years of revision. Those years have passed. Now we have a new law on public finances that puts new obligations on the State, and it is simply a matter of obligation to negotiate according to that law. There is no law against the addition of the meeting. It's just that way. An additional meeting does not meet the requirements, and it is illegal to invite a council and a nation to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've been thinking about the law on public financial matters in connection with this additional meeting and, in fact, the rest of my life. on the conditions set out there for the agreements made by the State on the implementation of defined projects. It contains, for example, one of the small details of the agreements requiring that contracts be no longer than five years old, apart from, of course, various details of these agreements on the agreements, on how to get paid, on the basis of what are being paid, etc. It is critical in this discussion that the discussion of the original church meeting and this additional contract is being made up of this legal bill. I wondered, then, at which point we should discuss the church meeting if we are always adding to that agreement. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. At least a member of the body agree that the agreement such as this would not be a law on public finances today. It must be an independent reason to discuss that agreement, and why it was not adopted and reassorted in accordance with official financial law, as well as in the particular case that we are making a contract, in the last fall, to 15 years, on the basis of the General Assembly when the civil law clearly states that such agreements should not be made for more than five years at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u72	A respectable president. This too is expected in 40 C.E. The law that the contract period may be longer in terms of large investments. This is not the case, and it is not an attempt to argue that it is being used as a separate authority. So this is where the five years go all the way. In the meantime, you need to ask yourself, " Is this an illegal agreement? ' Even if it's on the paper and everyone's signing it, it just doesn't mean that it's overwritten by the law. You can't have a contract on pay, that's illegal. Even if you sign such a contract, you are not bound to that agreement. Indeed, more is involved in this section of the law on public finances, which, after all, makes it impossible for the council to be in control of this matter. Of course, it's awesome for governments and governments to be able to throw 3.5 billion in there every year and just forget what they do with them. But we are responsible that we are getting the kind of service we are buying, as we have been talking about here in our discussion. Of course, we want to know, and the public should want to know what it means to support and protect the State Church according to the Constitution. It is a highly political language that we can discuss, which is the scope of it. We're not going to know because it's not torn apart. Not being able to ask and get the answer to the tremendous simple question of which properties these assets are astute, especially in view of the completion of public financial law in the 2019 making of all of this. 2019 is running out, and it should have been done with what it looks like. But it's clearly not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I know why. A senator is better acquainted with public financial laws than with a number of members in this room and, although more recently, has studied them and taken this very seriously, including some of them. on the part of the legal committee, with the implementation of public financial legislation. Then I raised the same question, and I asked another question. In this discussion, a member of the Parliament, listed earlier: A senator that if we were to take over such a contract today, as the church meeting is, he would pass laws on public finances in light, on the matter of negotiations, etc.? And if not, is it not an independent basis for accepting the agreement, ensuring that the future will be a law on public finances in terms of clarity? I wondered specifically, like what. A senator in his first reply, that the National Church is given various tasks, we can totally agree, but they could certainly be somewhere else. We are referring to a particular social service that is actually carried out by the nations, the salvation that can certainly be provided in other areas, including the rest of the world. with increasing support for psychology services, which have been called upon repeatedly in this hall, but unfortunately, more part of the body of Congress seems to oversee the costs it might fall but be less concerned about the cost of this. Is it not a minimum requirement that such a contract be made clear for what exactly is being paid, and how can monitoring of this service be carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u74	A respectable president. That's exactly what I went over about the dissociation of this. On the one hand, we're finishing property transfers. It is clearly an exhaustive quality in relation to the best data we have. The 1984 article and the 1992 credit list are both extremely successful, reviewing earth books and church books, and I don't know what it is from 1597 and everywhere it was traced: This is where the church owned an earth, which was legally sold. This list of 350 pages. is what stands out. There's a real estate evaluation of all of this, divided by the benefits, houses, apartments and whatever, and it's a billion dollars at the time. It is impossible to see anything other than the final completion of property. Then there are laws that concern the church, about certain services it provides, and the cost behind it, absolutely definitely, and we should have it at the table. It also remains to support and protect the National Church under the constitution, and it may involve the purchase of these services or the implementation of the laws, etc. and maybe it's nothing more than that. Maybe it's something special, as I suggested in the budget right now, just a hearing in the Bishop's office, that having an Episcopal office that is run as an independent unit would be to strengthen and support the Church and that it can do anything about it, when it all comes down to it. If the State feels unable to complete this case, as it is to try to do in this additional contract, which is a complete failure, and does not comply with the laws of public finance, the state is simply to negotiate this agreement, and it is to be judged that it must bring all the data of the case, and then the real cost will be made if the people are unable to negotiate it, under the present circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u75	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in the law on status, government and conduct of the National Church, the rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the law on the staff's Pension Fund. This is in view of an additional contract made by the United States and the National Church. In its core it is a matter of organizational change, but the organizational change is that certain government workers will be employees of the National Church, they will be hired and not appointed, etc. In a slightly larger context, however, it is taking steps that include the complete spread of the nations, not national, but national. With a suitable simplicity, the 1997 church meeting that has been quoted here may be viewed as a means of separation to the table and to the bed, but the organizational change here would include a legal separation between these parties. Nothing new under the sun. This discussion about the position of the church and the relationship between Church and Church is by no means new. Let us remember that we are at the scene of the oldest organization in the country, and the church is naturally secondest, as humans know. I would like to quote through the life stories of Bishop Þórhallur Bjarnarson's son. This book is entitled The Pioneer, by example a noted writer and scholar, Óskar Guðmundsson. He says in one place, with President's permission: In the latter part of the 19th century, a great change of attitude toward State and church government became apparent. Ideas of civil rights took on a clearer form, a requirement for human freedom to determine, as well as the right to form an association, became louder, and the government gradually accepted this right by law. This is true of the demands of civilism in Denmark and Iceland. This had been true for example. Einar Ásmundsson was one of the first humans who joined them in requiring religious freedom in the legislation. In Iceland, too, this trend was increasing, and it was accompanied by social development. With the Constitution of 1874, freedom of worship was recognized, but the church continued in many ways, in a far greater sense, than the church, in the opinion of many. During the years leading up to the turn of the century, there was a great debate - that of the turn of 1900 - ◆ the separation of state and church, of free church, and a request was made that the law should be changed toward recovery of the congregation's self - determination rights. As the turn of the century approached, the number of churches and religious groups increased outside the local church. With the increased self - determination rights of congregations, they were made easier to establish free churches as both zealous and cooperative with the Church of the Priests. A quote on page 16 concludes. 259 in this fine and grand book. Mr President, we may be aware that the discussion we have here is not new at all. Here's an important development. I can quite agree that it would have been desirable for this bill to have appeared a little earlier, that it would have had a little more time at the Council to cover it. But like a dog. paritaprevir The newly arrived armoured Brynjar of Níelsson reminded of his excellent talk earlier today of a very simple change. As in the report, it was September 6, so it was. that representatives of the Icelandic State and the National Church signed a further agreement called on to review the agreement between the same parties on the churches and the remunerations of the clergy and the personnel of the Congregation from January 10, 1997 - that is the popular church agreement and the National Church's contract on the practical cost of priests and testes, the office of the bishops, a contribution to the Christian Fund, and a special contribution to the National Church from September 4, 1998. In addition, this bill that we are considering here is the controversial addition of this agreement between the Icelandic State and the National Church since September. and the will of the same party that followed him. According to the contract, the Church shall include... will pay all of his staff from January 1, 2020, after three weeks, instead of the bishop of Iceland, initiation bishops, 138 active priests, and testees of the National Church, and 18 bishops' departments staff will receive a salary from a government fund. This, it says, will lead to no longer being counted as government officials or employees. Rather, they will be the employees of the National Church. This is the very essence of what we are discussing. It is mentioned in the report that the bill suggests changes that are considered necessary to cover the above additional agreements between state and church, and it says that where the contract involves the major change in the Church itself to take care of all its employees and employees, as well as pay from January 1, 2020, the changes proposed to that end. In addition, it is noted that since the employees of the National Church who are listed in the above - mentioned laws on status, government and conduct of the National Church will no longer be counted as officials or members of the State, but will be submitted to the staff of the National Church. That's even. suggest that, instead of a word or a related one, the word comes to be "temporaneous, "" service, " and "Service. " Similarly, it is suggested to withdraw from the wording to position, or ship, and to take in the expression "to work. " Then it is announced that further changes in national law, government, and practices will be made in order to establish national standards on the matter rather than on the law. This is followed by an announcement. An article with the bill will discuss how to meet the constitution and international commitments. This may not have to do with international commitments, but it has been reviewed, such as in this discussion, in 62 C.E. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, says that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is a national church in Iceland and is to be supported and protected by the State. This is the wording of the 1944 Republic Constitution, which, as it has been known, was under national regulations and accepted by all the majority of the people. You should know that in 79 C.E. The Constitution says so, by permission of the President: According to 62 C.E., according to the General Assembly, a change in the State's church order is now adopted. g., and then it shall be signed by the vote of all the voters of the land for approval or for a demonstration, and the vote shall be secret. The Church has a natural unique position here. The Church has special protection in a constitution adopted by all the majority of the people in 1944, and there is also reason to mention that there was a national legal fee on October 20, 2012, on the recommendations of the Council of Government, asked, by the permission of a president: ◯Do you know that in a new constitution there will be a law on a national church in Iceland? Of those who took sides, 57.1% were yes and 42.9% were no, so it is completely secure, secure more in this national law, and naturally shows the church's strong position in the minds of people. Various fine speakers have mentioned and considered the role of the church. It is entrusted with a highly responsible and delicate substance that does not have to be traced back. But of course, the church is interwoven with the history of the nation, culture, and lives of the people of the country over the centuries to this day, so in a sense you feel that this is a little historical. Especially is the church's initiative to become independent, to become and to be a nationalist rather than a State. I've been reviewing a discussion long ago, which has been in exactly the same tone as we'll discuss here. It is now a pleasure to visualize this matter in the historical context. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u76	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, yet he does mention that when he read up 62 C.E. The constitution only read the first paragraph. The second paragraph, by permission of the president, is: This can be handled by law. This is an important point in this discussion, though, of course. A senator mentioned how these laws should be changed and the particular case that it should be a national agreement, of course. With that. A senator speaks of this as a legal separation of the church and the State makes it clear that at this point we are not going to change church orders in a manner specified at 62 C.E. Constitutions. Yet, there are certain things to be resolved. As in all divorce matters, there must always be complete elimination of all disputes over property and property exchange. A decision must be made whether and how children should be treated, if any, and I do not know that the State and the nations have children together. Of course, parishioners are spoken of, but this is not quite the same. I'd love to hear from it. A senator on this point. Does he feel that at this point the government's ownership issues and the National Church have been adequately solved? Counts 'em out. A senator said that there is any reason why the State will continue to favor its national church?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not exactly sure what to do with it. A senator refers to a holding argument. Are there any issues? I hear that here are very interested people - and some of them attended - on accounting points, accounting, relating to public financial laws, fine nuances in reviews, accounting, and so on. There's nothing but good to say. The 1997 contract is unfashionable, and that is very clear in this bill. It is interesting to contemplate something valuable, but it is also essential that we have a clear view of history. History did not begin 1997, and neither did it start in 1907 when the great deportation of the church site took place. [[For example, it could be 1874.]] I'm getting a nice frontal call, and I'm happy to mention, too, that when I was discussing the Constitution, so I answered that, I had that in mind as well. A senator mentioned that this can be done by law, i.e. The church directive, then the result of its underground votes, and that is what really matters. This church order, the government's support of the National Church, and the protection that is reserved for the State Church cannot be changed unless the nation approves of it in secret votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u78	Mr. President. I notice why. The senator did not answer my questions in any way, either satisfactory or otherwise. However, I would like to refer to a statement in the June 17, 2018 revision report on the Constitution of 2017, by permission of the President, which points to the Congregation's request to the State's accounting Council of the 17 May 2018 on the evaluation of financial commitments of the Icelandic government contract and the National Church of September 4, 1998, as well as the impact on the founding of the Church's budget and State funds. What this is all about is that the church does not know how much possessions were put between, the United States does not know which possessions were placed between, and it is an uninformed and uninformed debate over which possessions were placed between. So I ask again, "Do you feel it?" A senator is adequate to separate state and church in the way that this bill is being done without having what possessions were placed between the two? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u79	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has a document in his hands that I'm not comfortable with here, but he read it well, and I heard it well, and those who listened to it. A senator has heard what was said. [[Up front.]] There is no disagreement that the precise value of these assets may not have been measured. It might be very interesting to appreciate it. I'm telling you, there's an enormous amount of value that went from the church to the state. We've noted earlier today that entire communities live on earth that fall under it. [[The president calls.]] There's been Garville, Acdín, and Borgnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u80	A respectable president. That caught my attention. To support the existence of the National Church and its special protection in the 2012 Constitution of national law, a member of the Council said yes, by permission of the President: ▪ Do you know that in a new constitution there will be regulations for a national church in Iceland? Let's leave out every detail about the wording of the question, hopefully we can review it later. I believe that when it comes to national pay, the results are valid. That's why I'm, for example. a co-sponsor of a bill to a new constitution, which is a national church law, the same law that I so find so appealing to myself. However, I am involved in providing the bill and would vote for that new constitution because that is how I interpret the national will according to the 1st point of this national law. It's the same national law as what. A senator mentioned 66.94%, i.e. 67%, yes to the question, by permission of the President: ▪ Do you want the proposals of the Council to give the bill a new constitution? I find it interesting how some politicians take advantage of national pay, adviser, binding, or anything when they happen to agree with them, usually according to their own opinion. For example, trouble arose. The head of the Central Party in his day to the National Insurance Act, in fact, completely unsolicited by the voters. Why is this so? A senator comes here and acts in his language of national law, which he still ignores in other respects if I get it right? Or it's like that. A senator would agree with the nation to place a new constitution based on a legal bill? If not, why not, if he comes here and says he wants to respect the national will?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. In the context of my reviewing 2 mg, I referred to this national bill on the proposals of a administrative body. Ninety-niner. The Constitution that changes to church warrants would require national payment. The point of my case was that there was a survey of some kind. Of the voters to the voter file, which was 236,911, it was a valid vote 114,570, i.e. 48.4%. This is a major participation, and it is a powerful indication of our attitude. You're right about what you're doing. Of course, a senator must read very carefully the text of questions if he is to reason on the matter. The text was: Did you know that in a new constitution there will be a provision for a national church in Iceland? Very much more is the answer to yes. The rest of it. A senator referred to the question: Did you know that the proposals of the Council will be laid down a bill for a new constitution? That's a vague question. [[Foreground on: No.]] I know people who said yes to themselves, either on the ground that they wanted this bill to be followed without so much change as a decimal, but I also know people who thought, "Yes, it's good to have it in mind and to keep it that way when people are working on these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u82	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u83	A respectable president. I'm pointing out what. A senator on the bill this time, who was submitted by the United States but for the last session of the Piranha, i.e. as a 1st transporter, where there is a very good review of exactly what it means to put a new constitution based on the board's bill. There's a lot of material on this, and I'll be happy to guide you. A senator on that subject, if he so chooses. I don't quite understand why. A senator uses this national bill or not. At the beginning of my reply, I felt that he did not. But as the talk continued, I felt that he did. He rightly mentioned that this is a major participation, but it also highlights the minimum support in the National Remuneration Act of the Constitution. Let's just skip the character of the wording that we can quite address later, but for example. 73% wants a certain proportion of voters to be paid nationally. 66.49% wants to vote even. 78.36% wants a higher vote per capita and 83% want non-President resources to be declared national property. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees that we should do these things too?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u84	Mr. President. I think I can handle it on my own, taking my stand on this bill of governance. I'm not interested in our approval as a constitution. I'm grateful for a great invitation, but I think I don't appreciate the advice from the United States of America or the members of the Councilman of Pirates. On the contrary, I think we have a constitution that has been successful. Of course, like the rest of the constitutions, it has changed, but I have previously made it significant that they need to be well - intentioned and in a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u85	A respectable president. This is more interesting. And it's interesting that there's a smaller part in new registrations in the National Church today. Very recently this has been happening to a smaller part of those born in the National Church. It's getting away fast. I'm willing to guide you. A senator on the inexplicability of this National Cathedral Question on National Church in Iceland. Two examples of a constitution that would meet the requirements of the question would be: The Association Society is the National Church in Iceland. Second, there is no national church in Iceland. If one of the two had a constitution, it would meet the requirement for a national church in the Constitution. This is a very vague question after all. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of the Parliament on the separation of projects in this additional convention, which is discussed, is about the general church meeting. In view of what happened. The senator seemed to at least to me. suggest that it would be reasonable to have disunited church projects, to have a share in the payment of property contributions, and to what things are due to 62 C.E. The constitution. I read just in my speech. Is that true of a senator? And finally, on the Constitution of a church order, I ask: Does that not mean that the changes we are making in this law must be made to a national fee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u86	The last question is why. The senator, Mr. President, is quickly replying: No, a church order is not being changed. It is a simple matter that makes it possible that the informed workers are no longer public employees but employees of the National Church. These were a few questions and practical qualities. It's nice and very entertaining to be in such mental - health activities on which principles could meet this requirement of the constitution that we've talked about, and it's good to discuss accounting, accounting, and review in the large context of all. There's room for that, according to what you choose, and that's fine. But I state that I was not exaggerating anything as I heard it. A senator explains about a list of tasks or what was being paid. I think that's all there is to it. At least I'll figure it out. not what is meant by adding, or if this is the case, it is just an agreement by incident between the parties who are involved in the so-called secondary agreement discussed in the bill we are here to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u87	A respectable president. Excuse me, but doesn't the Council have any jurisdiction? Why is it in the hands of the European Commission to negotiate a share in some of the overall levels in an additional convention without the help of the Council? I have no idea how the switch is about legal projects, property transfers, details of the constitution in this additional meeting, not the slightest idea, and I don't think anybody in this room has it, because it doesn't have to. Regarding the question of whether these laws need to be paid nationally, since this is a change in a church command, I don't think that there is enough answer or support. Why not? It is definitely making the church more independent in some respects. There must be a fundamental change of the current command. It's just a week since the bill was submitted. We do not expect this issue to go through a normal narrative at this time. I don't know what we should be able to sort out this matter according to its scope at the time, according to the quality that we should work on in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u88	Mr. President. I'm not going to take any teaching or instruction work here, but I think that almost every man's order is far more important than what's under here. It is being changed that church employees, bishops, testimonials, priests, and other employees no longer become public employees but employees of the National Church. This is not a change in church order and, of course, eight o'clock. A senator, although he enjoys this kind of gym class, I suppose. [[Up front.]] Was there another question? I think I've answered some questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u89	Mr. President. The thing that we're discussing here may be, according to the words, it's not very complicated. There is a requirement for the separation of the personnel of the National Church, that they no longer be counted as government officials, but that they are responsible for their books, remunerations, etc. On the other hand, the matter rests on the so - called church agreements and on the subsequent contracts, and the person mentioned here is at least thinking that the council is all too seldom given the opportunity to discuss the basic issues, how these contracts were conducted, how their renewal was carried out. In the fall and how it is right to deal with agreements like this in the long run. Basically, it is not a matter of whether our church is a national church or not or whether it should be fully separated from state or not. We have a constitution on a national church. We have the will of a greater part of the country, according to all surveys that it should be, and at least I believe that we should respect it as soon as we can see other basics, such as freedom of worship and the equalness of religion. I myself am registered to the National Church, baptized in church, have had my children baptized in church, married in church, etc. and have experience in the ministry of the church. I find it a little interesting to watch this matter and the nature of the church meeting and the agreements that agree with that agreement are based on the clarity of their agreements and on official financial laws. True, these laws exist after the church meeting itself was made but before the agreement on which this bill rests was signed and there is a lot to consider. In this agreement, there is a commitment for the state funds at least for the next 17 years. This is an untimely contract that cannot be canceled or requested review until 15 years have passed. It would take a minimum of two years for the mind to reveal this agreement. Then I wondered about the laws on government finance, which generally establish that negotiations will not be made longer than five years old and ask: "Why is that reference being made? Although there are no sources, e.g. If it is a major investment, no attempt is made to support it in this agreement or in the bill why the agreement is so long. It is hardly long ago to recall a conversation in a council hall about the expected market agreements, which were made for a very long time and caused much controversy in the council, since it was committed to a government fund for a very long time without any direct access to the contract or confirmation it in any way and was actually referred exclusively to the legal authority of each year. The Agency commits itself to ensuring the expenditure to this agreement each year to the next 15 years without the approval of the council. Then you wonder: " Is it not necessary to stretch out a bit of authority by negotiating for as long as this case does, without least placing the agreement for approval or rejection before making any validation? In this context, it is interesting to bear in mind, as the report shows well, that this agreement was certainly under Congress. He was led under a synod to confirm, not the Allied Council of the Icelanders. The Commission felt that they had the full authority to sign such a long contract with such commitments as it does without any formal confirmation by the council. In this discussion the question has been raised: Why is the technical application of the bill in this discussion? This is precisely because the council will never have the opportunity to discuss the basic issues involved in this matter; the church meeting, the separation of state and church, how it should be carried out, the handling of contracts as these in principle, the clarity of such agreements, the commitments that the State accepts, and not as much as the high commitments that the church assumes according to the church agreements. The discussion has repeatedly referred to these obligations. True, the nations play a very important role, taking in various social services, salvation, and so forth. It is noteworthy, however, that in this agreement, the prime minister, the minister of finance, and the minister of justice was signed. In the autumn, there are a wide variety of descriptions of the State Fund's responsibilities in this context, what state funds should be paid, how it should be counted, etc. But there is no reference to the duties of the National Church in that contract, which is actually the national service. We'd make a deal with e.g. The services provided by the health - care providers, where we paid them a considerable amount of money just to be there, no matter how much service is provided or any quality, conditions, or monitoring of any kind on whether this service is actually granted? I think we would never accept such a deal with anyone other than the State Church. Now I'm on a budget board, and we have a lot of control over the government's finances, conduct the budget, and we're actually getting what's expected of the budget. Why is it that we are prepared to set such low standards for so much money? These contracts commit state funds every year about 4 billion, added until the next 15 years. The contract, as such, probably goes to 60 billion if that is the case. Then comes the unprecedented church meeting where there is a question of what land they are discussing, what they were worth, whether or when they are ever built up as such. We may all have our own independent position on the National Church, the segregation of state and church, and the extensive role of a national church, or whether the role should be at any rate above the head, but when a government fund is giving so much money each year to a single party on budget, we must make more demands than these on the ambiguousness of the agreement, on what it is being paid, how it's going to be rewarded, etc. At the same time as we have an agreement for the next 15 years, as well as a partial compensation, we also observe the simple fact that the nation's membership in the State Church has been falling for years, the same time that we have paid and increased in our pay to the National Church at any given time. This agreement takes no consideration in any way to reduce the effectiveness of the Church of America against other religions in the community. In the long run, I feel utterly unacceptable that there are no clearer reference requirements for the church's services as well as for a more clear review principle than a review of this contract can be requested after 15 years. If we looked back at this long commitment period and the fact that the council did not come in any way that the validation of the agreement was the first very normal thing to think that when this review or update of the church meetings came up for a discussion between the state and the church, the entire agreement would have been adopted and agreed again in accordance with the government law. That's the law we're working on today. Although not in force at the church meeting, it is only natural to accept this agreement fully, taking into account the vast changes in the government and the legal requirements for public finances and making a new agreement. No less demands can be made to the Commission. Basically, it would not have been necessary to include any change in the amount of money involved, but it would have required that an earlier agreement have been established in some way and that a new agreement should be made on how the State's support to the State should be adapted and that the church's services should be established and that these agreements be reviewed from time to time. To me, it is a long way off the European Commission to bind the legislature to 15 years old, far beyond the authority given by the executives, the greater part here at the Council, to bind the hands of the State in this way, without any change in the national democratic will, any possibility of reviewing an agreement like this. Therefore, I would have considered a minimum requirement that first, within the framework of public financial agreements, these agreements would have been established by the church's churches, with the clarity and ability to monitor which the law puts before the Council, a financial committee, and until it would include a member of the Management Board, such as the Government's Accounting Act. Then we could have continued the role of the National Church, which remains the Constitutional Church and as the nation's rich will for the continuation of Constitutional national churches, but in accordance with the laws that we have passed in the meantime on the ambiguousness and the framework of such agreements. Then there are basic religious freedoms and the true degree of religious freedom when one religion of about 60% of the nation has as much superiority as it has seen. In the context of the review of treaties, such as these, we may wonder whether paying for the services of the churches or religions in general is a place of salvation or some kind of social assistance. Is it not simply a religious obligation to the religion of the religion that they fulfill according to their conscience, rather than the general support of religion, e.g. through charges? It is then the parishioners' will want to choose which religion they want to belong to or whether they want to belong to a religion. It would have been interesting to have an opportunity to discuss such factors if the European Parliament had maintained the general courtesy of asking questions at the council, seeking some commission at the Council for negotiation as this, which we are dealing with today some technical process. I don't find it acceptable from the legislature of the legislature of the legislature legislature of the legislature legislature of the legislature legislature of the legislator, the public of this country, to a considerable amount of funds for the next 15 years without any chance to revise the requirements there, how to monitor, what services should be granted, or if we would like to approach these matters in any other way. We vote for the 4th anniversary of the Council. It is only natural to view such a commission when contracts are made on the side of the State. There is a very special reason why the European Commission can take the power to negotiate 15 years without review, without even making such contracts in ways other than demanding legal authority to keep them each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. A lot of fine things happened there. I'd like to think about it in this context to the question. A senator highly criticized the agreement on public financial laws and reasoned that this update to the church meeting, which is now to be said to take place in part, was under the law on public financial matters, although the contract itself should have been established long before the church meeting was completed. Criticism. To a large extent, a senator turned to the fact that it was being tied up with a government fund to 15 years of age without a reexamination warrant coming into operation until then one two years later. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would see a new agreement between a travel minister and a local partner in the capital area as well. While I think more about a declaration's will, a secretary of carer has declared that it is an agreement. Looks sharp. Similarly, a member of the council felt that the State committed the debt to the great financial resources the council has, in the same way as before. A senator says that it is in this case, not before the contract was made? Has a group of restorations developed some attitude in these matters? There may well be other examples out there, but I feel so close because the frame is in both cases 15 years, and it is quite clear that the agreement on transport in the capital area is made after the official financial law is accepted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Simply put: No, I don't equal these issues. We can debate whether it is a contract or a covenant, or what name should be given the relevant agreement as such, which eventually involves a means of transportation. [[Up front.]] Now we are with us for the coming up of the Council for a transport strategy brought by the secretary of transportation, where funding to meet the State's commitments in this agreement are clearly and clearly stated for the next five and 15 years. That's exactly how you would like to have these long-term contracts. In addition, the law on public financial matters points out that it is the nature of the matter, based solely on investments, not on business contracts such as the treaties with the National Church. Contracts with the National Church come to pay and long - term cost of the National Church. The Parliament receives a transport plan for the treatment of Congress and eventually accepts it and can, of course, change that plan. I think I will properly agree that the agreement is made in advance of the General's approval of a transport plan. That's the way I'd like to agree with it. Then there would be at least some plan for the council, here would be the estimated cost each year, looking to the next year, and then some natural renewal, as we can change transport as these in the current five-year transport programme, and we are constantly uplifting plans for the investment system on that basis. [[The president calls.]] It has much stronger opportunities and opportunities for change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is responding. There is something else I wanted to do. A senator entered his talk. He spoke of the role of religious freedom in the fact that in this case the State created the National Church on the market, I will allow myself to say it this way, in competition with other religions and religions, depending on events. It seems to me there is a similar position on another market, where that Kingdom volume eventually receives something more than the rest of the church. It is the situation in the media market, where the Kingdom Radio has a legal capacity of some 6 billion a year to play with special resources, compared with the very poor position of the individual, the smaller media. [[The president calls.]] It would be curious to know if there is a problem. A senator sees a parallel between that and whether he would even be interested in a slow, gradual step - down of the supreme station of RUS.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u93	Mr. President. Yes, I have to say, there's a match there. We have been committed forever by a reference to a more than 20 - year - old agreement to provide such financial support to the National Church to stand for nearly a year and centuries, to be said, and in no way can it be revised. Our situation with RUSH is very different, we can at any time decide in this hall to completely jump up the state of the Kingdom Radio. I'm a supporters of the Kingdom Radio as such, but I think it's long time for me to have a conversation about the future role of the Kingdom News. The media market has changed dramatically from the time we set these core decisions on The Kingdom News as a public media, on security, on the work of national programs, and on other things. [[The president calls.]] Many of these goals could be completely successful in other ways, including by setting up funding for a competitive fund and giving everyone to the national media market opportunities to volunteer to do that role.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've been very thinking that since we started talking about this matter about how it is about the state's making this additional meeting. I don't think that makes any sound impressions. I feel that the evidence for making this additional meeting, and the church meeting to begin with, never or rarely, depends on the natural price for these earths to pay forever. They are more likely to be discussed on the importance of the Agency and how good it is in performing services, etc., all things that may be valid but do not raise the prices on the items. If I sell them. The senator of my apartment, we don't begin to enter the price of my great manners and pleasant association or that I have helped him with something else at some point. We'll settle that in another field. On the other hand, I always feel like I'm mixing it up, that this infinite price should be paid for these things because people care so much about the church themselves. And then I don't want to get to another conclusion - and I want to get a second opinion. A senator on this - but that the state is in negotiations with the National Church simply with the National Church and not with the taxpayers, not with the citizens of the country. That's what I think is a little serious. If we have agents elected for the public, for taxpayers, in agreements with other parties, we expect the State to defend the interests of the State, defend the interests of the state, and the interests of all of us. However, if the State is already in force with the woodcutter, there is clearly a legal problem. For example, there are infinite payments for the earth, an infinite amount of value. This is regardless of official financial laws. A senator went well. The addition of the meeting is no longer associated with the Society's population, when the change begins to be appropriate for the State Church, and not for the state's funds. [[The president calls.]] Most important, it is presented to a council, not to the Council. I think that suggests that the state is not in favor of taxpayers but in the national church.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I couldn't agree more. Senator. It is obvious, whether you look at the original church agreement or this additional agreement now that we are doing part of the bill we're discussing here, that this is not being thought of as a taxpayer's interest. The ministers who signed this agreement in September were in no way caring for the interests of taxpayers in the country, e.g. by requiring some sort of economy on the basis of the decrease in the state church, to create some room for the state to demand immediate attention, if this trend continues, and so on. It is not to look at the interests of taxpayers in this regard, as seen in the interest of the National Church, and I don't think it's a good practice on the European Commission or then plan to sign this year through budget because we have no other option than simply to earn this agreement on the basis of the European Commission because it is more likely that the European Commission, the State, would be added to some way in which funds would not be provided. However, it has been said before the council that they have anything to do with this agreement. When you look back so long and so much money, I feel that this is totally unacceptable to negotiations. It is good to bear in mind and to point out a comparison, since it is repeatedly referred to as important service that the churches truly perform, that we are active, such as. A nursing home that is funded from government funds, but with a short period of contracts with very clear quality guidelines for the type of service to be performed, what role these institutions play from year to year, and with full control of the State, it is considered to have to make a change in this service, or that it can be done more effectively. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I thought I should ask. That is exactly why he is very experienced in negotiations and negotiations between people who don't see things the same way. It is just so embarrassing to see the State somehow running the business of the National Church in an agreement with the National Church. Senators come here and strive to praise the National Church for performing various services, whether legal or other services that are not legally legal, but they do. I find it so interesting that people don't come here and talk about the same thing to the other institutions, e.g. The Free Church of Reykjavík, the Central Church of Hafnarfjörður, the Catholic Church, or some Moska, or other philosophy, as if these communities are not also doing an important work. I think the origin of this position, that the state is working out the interests of the National Church, actually comes from something I don't know a different word about, a respectable president, but a sanctimonious, not by religious devotion, but by religious ritual. [[The president calls.]] It is as if the Agency is sacred rather than the message it proclaims.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's a very interesting discussion. How do we take into account that 40% of the people do not belong to the State Church and likely attend most of the services we are talking about giving to their religion and not to the local church? I believe this arrangement is the worst for the National Church itself. She has been in the state's perfect shelter for far too long, never having to show her favor to her clients or members of the State Church as such. I think it would be a very good thing for the National Church to be much more independent and to show a superior attitude toward those in the National Church, but in the same way, the State would revise its support to religions in general. There is nothing wrong with our support of religion, but we do it in a comparable way just to different religions, so here it is true religious freedom and the real equalness between different religions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u98	A respectable president. An overview 6 of a follow-up with a bill for financial purposes contains some nonstop contracts, which is a little interesting. The HI research centre for earthquakes has 12 million per year, untimely. Iceland's National Church has a huge amount of money a year, untimely. Then there's IDI, annual donation, I have no idea what it is. NAI, annual donation, I have no idea what it is. And then UNICEF, UNICEF Children's Fund, 182 million, inaccessible. After all, these contracts clearly do not fit into articles on official financial laws and contract conditions. Who can tell the government that this is not allowed? We're not allowed to find out. I've tried to ask questions such as Government Accounting, but somehow it's too political or something like that, and the answers are passed on about exactly this. We do need some kind of legal assistance in this understanding, since the letter of the laws on public finances is so grossly wrong in these agreements. You don't understand how governments can do this, just legally. If they do not do so on a legal basis, what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. There are a lot of interesting things in this. A second talk is a subject just to answer. First, though, I would like to see a constitution of the regulations that the state is not allowed entirely to negotiate untimely agreements. I see no evidence that the state makes untimely contracts. It is necessary to have the opportunity for the Council at any given time to revise the agreements made by the State. I find it very interesting, too, what I would call a sort of circle argument that we have a very clear set of regulations that the state is not allowed to reserve or buy possessions without the warrants of the council, but then when it comes to the expenses of the state's budget, there is no legal fee to be given unless it is a legal warrant. On the basis of it, it seems that the European Commission can make agreements for years and decades - or untimely like the agreement here - without taking a special authority from the council to make such a deal over the head and simply be prepared, in effect, to bind the hands of the council even for the next few decades without accepting a warrant for such commitments to the council at the beginning but simply putting the council in a position from year to year to say: If you do not agree to the expenditure of this agreement, the State may be damaging to the end of the commitments we have made for the State. This is totally unacceptable to me, and I find this disrespectful to the lawgiver's role in the commitments of state funds. Of course, this is not something to be done. And when government financial law states that negotiations should not be made for no longer than five years, such agreements should be made only when there is very good reason for this. [[The president calls.]] It's not an experiment here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u100	A respectable president. It is exactly the constitution of the Constitution that no payment should be made except by sources of funds or funds that I consider to be the basis for the government's limitations in making contracts without length. Every year the Senate's declarations or financial allowances are always needed. We're not getting access to this right now except in some indirect way in the amount of money made to the Church of America which, in turn, will somehow not be financed because they're supposed to stop being an A-part institution. Then it's only part of the contract, and we're not voting on it, and then we're out to the top of ice on the Constitution and the sources in budgets and funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. Now I come from the private sector, so to speak, and I'm more experienced in business and employment than the government business. But I find it interesting to look into this in the context of that it contains a ◯Development director of a company with a program, which is usually or always very limited in the approved society, as per law, i.e. that it is the administration of the company that commits to the company in all major commitments. Therefore, I find it very special that the European Commission has to obtain a warrant for buying or even selling, which we might call in this context, but at the same time can pledge a government fund for tens or even hundreds of billions of years and decades in advance without seeking permission from the Lawgiver. To me, it is an amazing arrangement and an amazing lack of respect for the executive authority not to have such agreements under the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u102	Mr. President. We're discussing a pretty big case that may even make it happen. lack of self - control at first glance, some of which are not that crazy. But the whole case rests on an agreement made on September 6, 2019, for an additional review of an agreement between the two parties, i.e. The United States and the National Church, the clergy's pay and the staff of the National Church since January 10, 1997, are the multimedia church agreement. What this additional agreement involves, and this law code is on it, and it is intended to fulfill the part of the State in the full agreement, is about many special things, and I do not intend at this point to be the source of the church meeting itself. There are even more words to do so. However, it may be said that the initial change is that a fixed amount is now due to be paid about 2.4 billion per year according to what was paid in 2018. More importantly, this payment will be regardless of the number of bishops, testiest, priests, and other members of the Congregation. So it means that the Church owns its own personnel business. It's in itself fine for a private society. I'll come to this point later. Another focus is that this payment, which is then 15 years old under contract, is insured, and says in 3 mg. 1st par. The contract: A U.S. government safe and sound The contract should be modified according to the general salary and prices proposals which are fundamental for each year's budget. This will take into account the average tropospheric increase in the League of Colleges (BHM). This is a pay sheet, although it is clearly stated that pay is no longer being paid for certain employees. That, on its own, is quite remarkable. Then it goes to 4 mg. 1st par. It's a rather remarkable arrangement. I'm going to read this article, with the permission of a president: While this Annex Treaty is in force, the payments discussed in this article should not be different from those mentioned above. - That. No modifications can be made without ensuring that these payments maintain the value of the contract time. However, the right to require changes in the sum of the benefits, according to the original regulations of Article 3. The 1997 Church Meeting Thus, just 15 years from now, people are left behind to consider this, as 2 paragraph 3 is discussed here. It speaks of money changing on the basis of an increase or a decrease in the number of registered members of the National Church. So for 15 years, according to this agreement, it is forbidden to take any note of how the trend will be in terms of registration in the National Church. It's a big deal. It has been pointed to by more people than I am going to point out today: This is what happens when a continuous and continuous decline in the National Church has been observed for ten years, not merely that the nation's religion has been reduced proportionately but has been reduced. The drop has grown so great today that according to the latest data from the Habitat, between 63% and 64% of the Icelanders are enrolled in the National Church. In comparison, it might be noted that there may have been some 975.99% in the State Church at the time of an initial church meeting. So the number of registered has fallen so much. There is no evidence to suggest that this trend will continue, that between 1,000 and 1,500 people will report directly from the State Church each year. Compared with this development, the number of people in the National Church will have decreased by 15,000,200,000 when this 15 - year contract expires. It is significant that it is made up of, and I'm not putting it down, that the church plays a vital role. It certainly does. It will therefore be a blow to the fact that at the same time as they are making a contract for 15 years and granting the church full freedom in their own business - the state no longer intends to interfere with the many church priests or employees, but the money is guaranteed for 15 years - it in itself is no provision for its undiminished role; it will ensure, as it speaks of itself, that all the people of the country will enjoy the service of the Church. I don't make it because it may be absolutely right for no one to be evicted. So I find it a little strange that no law is about what is spoken of very much, that the Church is in psychological care. There is nothing in this agreement that prevents the church from taking over their counsel to reduce the number of employees. She may decide to reduce the number of priests in the country. She may choose not to employ priests who have learned especially psychological care. It has this completely in its own hands, so there is nothing in the agreement that guarantees that all the people of the country will enjoy the ministry if we give up having all the services of the church. There is nothing in the agreement to suggest that this service should be ensured. It's quite remarkable, I must say. Then, too, there is something remarkable about this appendix. In the 5th. By permission of the President, the addition agreement says: This agreement is non-timely, but the parties can either request a review of the financial precursors of this contract, after 15 years from its signature. If it is not possible to negotiate a review of the contract within 12 months of granting such a request, each party will be able to cancel the contract at 12 months' notice. I guess it could be extended to at least 17 years. And then to crown everything up says: However, it does not take the value of the 1997 meeting, as per the opening terms of this contract. So there is no opening in any way to reevaluate the church meeting. Then there's something remarkable about the arrival of the Generals at this agreement. It's very small. The contract was signed in advance on the approval of the Council, which has agreed on the contract, and the government of Iceland, and in advance of the need for legal adjustment, according to 1. mg, which I expect is 1st mg. 7. par., get value. In other words, these legal adjustments as presented here expect the Council to validate this additional agreement without any opportunity to discuss its material content. I think that's a strange way. A man would have thought that this contract was being signed in advance of the council and the Generals. That would be a little equal, then. This council is practically set up against a wall, and the Generals' approval of this adjustment has made Iceland's government meaningless in this contract. Not that I would sour it. But I'd like to mention that, too, the highest. The Minister of Justice and Church Affairs has spoken quite clearly of at least her opinion - I don't know whether it's her party or her government's opinion - that it is inevitable that the full separation between state and church will occur. Hence, it is a little strange to propose a 15 - year contract that offers no opportunity to take the steps that must be taken in order to do so. In this context it is also appropriate to mention that prior to the council there is a proposal for a resolution of full separation between state and church and new overall law on the activities of religious and biological organizations. An article in which I believe that 1 11 members of Congress are on explains what the Parliament's decree involves and tells me it's about two things, and I'm going to read what's said about the first section, by permission of the President: ▪ First, there will be a legal bill that includes full segregation of state and church to the law of both form, content, and financial status. This means that there will be a process of breaking up all relationships based on existing laws and special agreements, including the following: Article of the Constitution of the National Church which ensures that it is unique beyond other religious and biological institutions. And most importantly: The agreement to negotiate the final outcome of all agreements, so that no later will be completed than in 2034. The fun thing is that in 2034 the aquifers are 15 years away. It is a common misunderstanding that the person standing here and many who make this synoptic proposal want to cancel a mass - speaking church meeting, leave the church, but do not adopt the church meeting. That's exactly what needs to be done, and that's what that Senate proposal is doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u103	President. It was an interesting speech and good friends. A senator came in. However, the most interesting thing for me was to think only about what he mentioned in terms of a decrease in the state church and that we are looking at a decrease of up to 1,000 to 1,500 people a year. The reduction has been about 25 percentage points in the last 20 years, approximately. Then you start to wonder, " How does this continue to decrease?'And I'm getting as far as I can see, with a decrease in the general population population in the country, that the members of the National Church will be at about 50% within 15 years. I could be overrated. I did this in a hurry on paper, so I could be wrong. But if you put it in context to the fairly large amount of money the National Church gets every year from a government fund, which will be rewarded and will keep it worth, you will think. Are there cases of a similar organization as the national church - this is natural just a firm association, a community around certain religions - for example, that government funds provide so much money for company as relatively few as possible? I tried to find it in the budget, but I couldn't find anything like it. It would be interesting, too, to hear from what we hear. A senator sees this in the context of justice. Different religions have different amounts of money between their hands and a certain justice issue that they are not being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, about the decrease in the number of people like that, I feel like a whale. A senator finds it hard to predict the future, so I cannot say that the number of items that have been reduced at the same rate is reduced. There is, however, no other indication. It's been very stable. That is exactly what we are facing, as it were. A senator pointed out that we may be getting close to 50%, so we might start to ask ourselves: " Is this society, the national church, a real nation church? In fact, you can ask yourself the same question when she has 63% of the population as a member of the country. Is there an example of similar things? No, I'm just as broke in this stuff as I am. Senator, I just don't know about it. Of course, it would be fun if someone could point out that man had gone that way. Then they ask why. A senator of very large questions about justice. Justice is always a little difficult, for what alone seems to be justice is the greatest injustice for others. Nevertheless, I still feel that this is a very long time when certain associations are being strengthened, in this case the nations, who certainly have deep roots and functions and have played a major role. I don't want to belittle it. That's not the issue at all. However, it can also be noted that when this church - state relationship, which is very far, reached and was making an agreement on the church's economic situation, both when this church meeting was made and before, people did not just distinguish between Church and State.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u105	Mr. President. That might be the whole point. When we're talking about the coming separation of state and church, we have to settle all the loose ends. Hv. In his speech, a senator made a fine point of reviewing a 15 - year period in which the final result was to be reached. However, you wonder, " Is this really going to take so long because it has been unclear for 22 years about the value of property, the real value of the items that have been transferred, etc.? ' Then you ask yourself, " Do we really need 15 more years to find out what the final credit list is so that it can be restored? ' And isn't it just a continuation of a certain systematic inseparity based on the old thought that the state and church are one and the same that causes this confusion? Is it really a premise that makes it impossible for us to get honest answers about what this is like?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u106	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Fifteen years is a long time. If I knew what it was. He was properly referring to the synonym that I made as a subject. I agree it's certainly a very long time. The reason for choosing to give such a long time is simply because the churches have a long history. Despite everything, the church is with very many members, and there are differing opinions on this matter. I don't know if I'm that soft - I don't really have the nerve to say fair - but I thought it would be advisable to continue to take it that long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u107	A respectable president. It has been difficult to find out where this amount comes from after all. It seems that this is simply the amount needed. There were so many priests, and their wages had to be paid. Here's a lot of property. In response to an inquiry by the then Councilwoman Birgitta Jónsdóttir of 141 C.E., a report by church committees was referred to as being under the agreement made in 1997 and 1998, but for some reason the answers would end up being accurate. They were accurate there, they were these assets, but then the answers came: we have no idea what it is. This gives me a little concern over a certain integrity in this agreement with the Council and the natural thing about the nation in another place. How is it that on the other hand, it is so difficult to draw up the services and commitments that have to the constitution and then to make a contribution to these assets? There was something relatively recent about this, and the answer became: No, it's best not to do anything about it. The point is that the law on government finances was set up and that all these property and commitments should be recorded, so in 2019 it is to be completed by means of the commitments involved. Then you wonder about the timing of this additional meeting, it's done just before we find out about this connection. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't see anything but conspiracy theories behind it. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator might take a little thought about this? [[The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the hour of speech.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. There are a number of factors to consider in all of this. I think that the fault of this cohesive and of the meeting songs that have been made for at least It is estimated that in the first century, humans did not view themselves as making deals with anyone else. They viewed the State and the church as one, some form of the church as having some name for the earth, but of course it was the State that owned the earth compared to what it is today telling us about the harmony that existed. Then, as time went by, these questions began to dawn between the state and the state, and these questions arose. I'm a very small conspiracyist, and I'm rather simple, so I'd rather not believe that men sat down with cold heads and said: "Well, now we have to extend this situation to the future, making sure that it continues into eternity because somehow we're going to lose it. Of course, certain questions arise in one person's mind, especially in view of the fact that we have tried to intensify much of the State's spending and how it is being handled. As I say, at least I'm a little conspiracyist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u109	A respectable president. Let's go to something else for a second. A senator called attention to his speech and has only been referred to earlier, i.e. the number of employees being taken away with this additional treatment. True, it is, and it's fine. But in addition to the letter, the amount of money is considered in terms of the pay number of 90%. In effect, it is said that this amount is in pay. True, the church may then reduce the clergy's pay, increase them, and measure the proportion in some way, but even if a certain number is not set, it is still paid by this additional convention. I don't think that's exactly right, and I think it reveals more precisely that the whole point is to pay the slave's salary, not to pay anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u110	Mr. President. I thank the senator again the answer and the questions. It's all about you, you can't really do that. If this is a clean financial commitment, as many people would like to be allowed to say that it's just a payment for the land, you can ask: Why are people making a contract for property and binding it to a nine-tenth pay index number? I don't know, but I think there's a reason. That's pretty good for a senator. You might even try to ask them the highest. Ministers who made the agreement why they would have chosen this way if this was the number of employees of the National Church and their rewards were not relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He went over quite a lot, but I'd like to ask him a few things about the more than 1,000 years old institution we're talking about. A senator chooses to call company. He'll find it a long time if they're going to cut the state - to - church permanently, and I'd like to ask him why. A member of the council how he feels about the right time to do this. I would also like to ask the senator something else. He said that as with the past few years, there would continue to be a steady decline in the State Church. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has something to do with it, research and research, or if it's just a feeling, as you say. Then I'd like to ask him something else. The senator, in the past, said that when the church meeting had been done, the State had actually been making a deal with himself, that it might have explained the low price set on the contract at the time, having been using land to name the church. Has a what? A senator took note of bookbooks, first again so that the 1907 church meeting was done, and/or earlier, or on what did he base the church on the name of the Church to be buried?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u112	Mr. President. The church has a long history in Iceland. It's exactly what it is. Senator, I'd like to allow myself to question the fact that the Church has a 1,000 - year history in Iceland. I don't think that's right. A senator who has a history of 1,000 years, that is, at least, not a church that has anything common with today's State Church. So I doubt it. But it doesn't matter to me. If we have a situation that has lasted for 1,000 years and is not compatible with today's demands, we will change it. That is also true if we have an arrangement that is 100 years old, 50 years old, 25 years old, or only last year. We'll change that. In terms of the number of people in the National Church, I think it was clear, at least In my answer to what. paritaprevir Leví's better than what? paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, that it's very hard to say. We may try to learn from history, and if we examine it, we will see that this course is very stable. It remains very stable until today. It's just the same trend as it's been in the past ten years. That's why I say there's nothing else. Of course, I don't know which 1,500 is coming next year, and then about 2,000 and 3,000, I don't know. I don't have any tests, so I'll answer the question forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u113	V.E.G. President. I believe Ljósvetningagoði's Aesthetic Idols would have disagreed. A senator that was not a national church in 1,000 C.E. is a matter of secondary importance. So it has been found that, as you say, the senator's forecast of shrinking is good gisk. In itself, I would like to have an explanation of what is incompatible with today's society in being a national church. I would also like to reiterate this, if any, that the church buried the name to show us the way it was. A senator has taken note of the book of scathing and will likely return to the previous church agreement or if he thinks that the state was making a deal with himself when the original agreement was made, that at some point over the centuries, the State has only supported the church's property slowly and quietly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. In fact, I guess it's hard to guess, though I'm a good guesser, as the senator pointed out, to guess what Ljósvetningagoði of Vegetarians would have said about this statement of mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u115	He said there should be one custom here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u116	Yeah, yeah, he said it, but it was that way at the time, like the cot. A senator may also have read in ancient writings that if they were just careful not to tell any living man about it, more was the custom than a secret one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u117	It's changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u118	Then I think it's at least not one custom comparable to the one of the men in the dagur of Þorgeir of Light Investments. [[Up front.]] I think it's difficult for us to discuss this on the basis of what Þorgeir of Ljósvetningagoði-synthesis said or, usually, the heroes who rode the districts at a historic time in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u119	A respectable president. They're asking quite a lot of questions for the council on this matter. It is now in 1st. and in general, I would have thought a minister should be here to get the case to the council. When asking these big questions, e.g. of the pay rate and the relationship between the amount of property transfer, I feel that a minister should be there to answer. I'm calling for a respectable president to contact a minister and see if he can't show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u120	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said that it would be good for a minister to be in the hall to answer certain questions. I was, for example. in my speech with questions about the administrative law, whether this bill would result in the failure of the administrative law to address the administrative decision or decision taken by the clergy, whether it was a material change or not. I don't quite understand it, but I'm convinced that it's the best. Minister of Justice knows the answer to that question. It would be fine if she was then in the hall to answer such fundamental questions or to correct misunderstandings. This appears to be one of the minister's priorities, since she asked for us to provide variations in order to get the case on record into the council just before Christmas break.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u121	Mr. President. I agree with the request that the minister be in the hall under this discussion. Here are some basic questions about the agreement here. It is expected that the Council will complete the matter over time, so we will probably not be able to earn time for further discussion or deep opinion on the case as such, for example. in the Committee Jobs. I think it is minimally necessary for the Minister to honor the council and be opposed to the information presented in the discussion on this agreement and the bill under discussion. I thought it would be reasonable to simply interrupt a meeting until a minister could see himself in the hall, join in this discussion with us, and answer the questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u122	The president has been given that information to the highest level. The Minister of Justice is soon to arrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u123	Mr. President. Thank you for letting us know that. Minister, be on your way. That's a good thing. While discussing basic segregation of Church and State, there are, of course, factors that are involved in the management of the state funds, the financial expenses, the property of the church meetings, and the value of those that we need to get the answers to at the highest level. Minister. So she is very positive that she is on her way and would have actually been desirable to have been here earlier today, e.g. When I gave my talk and asked these questions that I have not yet received. Thank you very much. President for the smoothness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u124	Go for it. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u125	A respectable president. I agree with what. The last speaker, a skilled president of the Presidency, is extremely good. However, I cannot help but agree with the question. Councilmen who criticize the absence of ministers at 1st. ... aboutthings. It is customary and customary for ministers to be at 1st. And I don't remember that many of these things have happened, just don't remember anything, but I may have a misappreciation. I think it's normal in itself to interrupt a meeting until the minister comes to the house. I don't think that's an unusual request, but we know that a minister is very conscientious and would definitely like to be with this discussion. It's a 1st. and therefore not an abnormal requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u126	V.E.G. President. I am very happy that there is a minister in the house, and especially because I intend to give a talk in the language within a few minutes. I'd be very happy if there was a minister in the hall to hear it. I also rejoice that the president has responded so quickly as he did. Clearly, he is worthy of all trust. I reiterate my gratitude to the President for a quick and happy response to the fact that there is a minister coming here and consulting us with members of the council for this matter, which is extremely late but is scheduled to pass through the council quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u127	A respectable president. I am fully aware that the president who now sits on the President's throne is likely to wonder if he can fulfill his wishes here on a recession until the Minister comes to the house. However, there is no unusual request in itself, for a minister is here measuring this matter in 1st. It is customary for ministers to be in the house and to listen to the incident of the discussion. However, if a minister had a legal pasturage or for any reason for his absence, it would have been all right to inform us about it, and we would have, of course, taken it into account. The minister responsible for this case is, as I told you earlier, the conscience was painted, so something must have come up, so that we must reiterate our wish that there be a pause in the assembly until a minister comes to the house and can attend this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u128	V.E.G. President. I think it's the highest. A minister is on his way to the house so that there is no need to delay a meeting for any particular reason. A minister has observed the discussions and, including, Stayed in the Independence Group Room watching them on television, had to rush out of a house just for a little while, but is on the way back in. On the basis of the number of speakers and how many speak from each category, I think that even if a minister has not been present all the time, he has received a good sample of the views of all political parties in this matter. Yesterday and today, these views have been repeated and even repeated a little over and over again. I know that a minister is interested in keeping track of the discussion and is on his way to the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u129	The President is very fond of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u130	Mr. President. It has been customary for ministers to attend the discussion in order to respond. Councilmen and their questions answered. You can excuse the fact that this is not a time, there are often legitimate tasks that ministers need to do, but I don't think that matters have been done. paritaprevir The Birgir of an annual Ármannsson to act as if more than one member of each category thinks it is necessary to promote something in a population that is merely a repetition. It's not been that way today, I've been listening to a lot of good talks, and so far I've done nothing about repetition except to the limited extent that the theme is the same thing that is the nature of the case according to what happens when one case has been taken care of. I wish that this would not be an attempt to pretend to be some nonverbal repetitious repetition. We are actually discussing this matter of great importance for the future of the National Church and for national preparation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u131	The president has been informed that the highest level is expected. The Minister will be here in three minutes. This is the information the President has.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u132	A respectable president. I'm just happy to see someone else coming to the house. I must admit, though, that hearing from the mouth was a source of frustration to me. paritaprevir The servant of the Ármannsson said that a minister had watched the discussion with interest on television in the Independence Building. It would have been nice to have a minister participate in the discussion rather than sit on the lower floor and watch it, and I agree with other members of the council who say that this has been a lot of interesting discussions, including. the state of the National Church and the possibility of leading to its separation and the state I know at the highest. A minister is a subject of thought, and he has strong opinions. She has even. proclaimed that there is work and bill in the future. I think it would have been beneficial for everyone if the Minister had participated in the conference at the Senate Hall instead of watching her from the House of Independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u133	A respectable president. I appreciate everybody's problem. Congress members who have participated in this vital discussion for their fine, extensive talks. I also like to remember that we are in the technical age and that we're all in the mood. Though we may not necessarily be in a Senate hall, members of the council are very familiar with meetings. Of course, it's fun to have a good time. Councilmen should miss the highest. Minister of Justice and a good thing to know that she's coming here. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson came upon many of these talks, and the debate has gone a little wide in terms of the State Church. It may not be quite the topic we are discussing here, although the history of this institution can be attributed, of course, quite far back, even to the history of the contract on which this fine bill is based. I think, sir, a respectable president, a good reason why we look at what is right on the bill and what is being made of exactly what is being suggested, and let's hurry to decide whether or not we're following it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u134	Mr. President. I'll be pleased with members of Congress... that a minister is expected. If I don't run out of time, it's been three minutes, but let's give one or two more. But I can't say a thing because of a word. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter, Haraldsdóttir, says that we live in the technical age and that people can totally watch TV and observe these wonderful discussions here. That is not the subject of conversation at the council Hall. They go out of language at the highest. Minister, that he's taking part in the discussion. It is of little value for us senators to know that the minister looks at us. This does not help us to get the answers to what we are discussing in the platform, but Skype may be used to participate in the technical discussion in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u135	The President welcomes all suggestions in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u136	V.E.G. President. I can in itself say that this discussion has been quite broad, but I think it's the third time in a relatively short period of time I hear it. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir suggests that the discussion at the council is in some way, either within a certain time frame or under certain circumstances. My advice. A senator is that he is merely applying himself for changes in the political order and/or using some kind of censorship on how a conversation is to be conducted at the General Assembly. I have personally enjoyed this discussion, even though it has evolved in a different direction than I would have thought it would be, but I will enter it in my speech afterward. I find it hard to believe that it is an attempt to limit the comments made by members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u137	A respectable president. I make a similar remark to a word or two. paritaprevir Isthmus is Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, for this matter is in a specific context. When should we talk about the context if not now when we are discussing issues related to the overall context? Can we not discuss the context with this very issue? Are we not allowed to talk about the context when changes in Christian funds, church funds, parishes, positions, administration and procedures of the then existing nation church, or financial contributions to the Church or to any of the additional regulations involved in this agreement in the declaration of will? When discussing these unique topics, may we never talk about the overall context? Now, for the first time, I remember, in fact, the very opportunity to talk about this matter in the big context, and I've had good reason for a very long time and for a very good reason, because as it has been explained here, the context of this and this bill is based on so much research and the importance of government laws and so on such matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, we must talk about the overall context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u138	The president asks the senators to respect their deadlines. And, behold, I say unto you, Most High. Minister of Justice is now in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u139	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, and actually I think his name Víglundsson came into it too, said the discussion was certainly quite wide. Some would say that the discussion went out and south, yesterday and today, on this subject. I'm not going to tell men what they can do and what they can't do in this regard, but it is noteworthy that many of the individual political groups feel that they have to participate in discussions about these days, especially in the light of the fact that this is about 1st. to discuss. The matter will be discussed and discussed and given an opportunity later to talk about it, perhaps on the basis of the issue itself rather than the great context that we can talk about and out and wide, as we would like on other occasions. It is interesting, however, to observe how many have considered a reason to speak up now and today, and this may be a coincidence, but it may be the one that has this effect. [[The president calls.]] It'll be nice to see if the discussion will be a little more progressive than it's been so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u140	A respectable president. I'm happy in the Christmas spirit that we're discussing the affairs of the Church of America, the good institution. I think that's the best part. For word's sake. Sæmundsson I'd like to say that I've had the opinion of how we direct the council. Hv. A senator should be well aware, since we are sitting on a prime committee together, and I've discussed many times that I feel that the Senate that we are working with - and that is, preferably, the speech period - completely out of the map, in no way, in line with the other Assembly around us. I find long speeches boring, I'll just admit it, it's just my personal opinion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it would be much more fun if we could have shorter talks and have more conversation, and that's why, since we're discussing the subject of the National Church, we have a special discussion about the status and future of the National Church in society. I think it'd be better than taking the discussion far and wide about the bill below at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u141	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change of the law on status, government and conduct of the National Church, the rights and duties of the employees of the state and the law on the welfare of the employees of the state, the additional contract of the State and the National Church. As most people know about the history of Iceland, we know that the history of the Icelandic Church is closely related to it and has been interwoven with it ever since the decision of the Icelanders to adopt Christianity. Like other parts of the world, we have moved ever farther away from religion. Whether this development is good or bad, I do not intend to judge here, but I believe that, in the context of the church's status, at the same time, evolution and change are natural. The nature of the matter, as is the case with a national church, the church's financial status and the State have been interwoven since the establishment of the Church of Nations. When separation is normal and really necessary, we need to consider how a separate church would be guaranteed to some acceptable income stock after the State has thus mixed in with her financial resources. The separation of state and church must mean that there are no links and that all religions are independent or at least so that there is no connection between the state and any one religion. The case presented here and presented as a step toward segregation of state and church, is it reasonable that the additional agreement will increase income despite a considerable decrease in the nation's churches? Is it normal for this separation to take 15 years? There is talk of a state of religious freedom, but as long as one religion is protected in a constitution and significantly better than other similar societies, religious freedom may not be fully discussed. However, it must not be minimized that the church is an important participant in most communities, especially in the country. Salvation is also provided by priests and by the clergy of the Icelandic Church, who are to be bound by a number of grieving people. I won't say it's because there's a lack of psychologists, yes, or that they're not part of health insurance and so there's a predatory service. It would certainly do better, Mr. President, to ensure those who need access to psychological services. However, it is not to be taken from the Icelandic Church that it operates in many ways a good and important work for many people. Do we not belittle it, but are we making it more difficult for the church by making it firm in particular? Sadly, this discussion seems to harm precisely the image of the National Church. Ideas of the United States of America How much better does it grow without the intertwining of the Kingdom? Would it be best if the church acted in harmony with what is desired of those who attend? Even so, I reiterate my view that I believe the church is a very important work for many. A fine example of the church's role in helping the congregation is when it comes to our actions. I cannot help but wonder if the good work there could continue if the Church was not under constitution and therefore had more support than other religions. The church's helpful work is a most important work of humanity. Unfortunately, in Icelandic society today, it appears that more people use the church's relief work for Christmas this year than they do in recent years, but it may have been possible that last year a total of 1,274 families, some 3,400 people, enjoyed all country assistance. Is this acceptable? Is this the community we want to live in, a society in which well over a thousand families need to seek help from the church or other helpers and rural groups in order to celebrate Christmas? I say, "No, it's not acceptable."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u142	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to invite the highest. What a joy it is that the minister of justice welcomes the hall, and she has taken the time to spend with us tonight! The discussion of the bill presented here has been very broad, but there are several factors that stand out in my mind. I've had a few downs. Councilmen speaking here like the Church, i.e. The National Church in Iceland should be subject to competitive laws, since it is a requisite for other religions - such as Hagar to the retail markets and even the Galasamal on that market. It is as if they would like to use a competitive, legal environment in order to establish, as you say, a bond. There's also been a lot of men involved. The timing of the bill's inputs, I don't measure it. There is no improvement in providing a bill of this magnitude in such a short time as we are measured. But calling in the production period of this bill of emotional intimidation over the near period of the Savior's birth, I'm impressed by all the caves. If this bill had appeared in the spring council, would the Passover have been discussed in this regard? Various such techniques have been presented by humans with natural entertainment, but they may not be much more than that. People have also referred to the State Church as company or company. I think it's very well placed in place for a 1,000-year-old institution that's been with us for centuries. People have said, "Well, there are only so many in this institution, and so many are coming down quickly. " The right thing to do is that it's about two thirds of the nation of the State Church. But that may explain why the church's new registrations are dwindling, explaining that it may be more difficult for an unbeliever to do in Iceland today than the church's missionary work as such. I want to know that it is in common with Reykjavík and North Korea that it is forbidden to distribute the New Testament to children in both places. True, it's punishable in Korea, but I don't think it's here. This may be one reason why the nations are more under attack than others. It is also forbidden to take the children to church before Christmas. It's very dangerous. So this certainly sets a goal for the church, which is hard to pass. Then they say that there is not much plagion for a business as few as possible are actually using themselves, that said one nice blow. A senator earlier. I wondered: " What do men have? Are these men in church every Sunday to examine the number of people there? You're doing child work, an older citizen's job? Is this what they're learning? Or is it this way, so I don't say what I was going to say because it's Icelandic? It has also been observed, in the past, in the matter of the moment. Because this is an Annex Convention with another agreement, which, in fact, has been located in the discussion these days, that the State has actually agreed with itself when the church contract was made. Then you have to wonder: " That may be why this agreement is not better for the church than it is in fact, because, in my opinion, it makes sense to me that the government funds have been in a higher position toward the church when this agreement was made. It is absolutely in the face, and it can only be seen from every amount mentioned here. So there are some things that need to be considered in this regard. It is, however, that I now mention the subject of the bill as the highest. A minister is here, interesting to see that I think this bill is an attempt to give the nation a course full of segregation between state and church. As we know, this will not happen unless the people have something to say about it. It doesn't matter how often people say that the nation is nothing about the State Church. The people elected that the National Church should remain in its constitution. It doesn't matter to me personally whether the percentage that asked for this is any lower than the percentage that asked for something else into the constitution. It doesn't matter to me in itself because it clearly showed the will of most of the people who took part in that they wanted it to be there. That's what I think of the key to it. It has also been said that there is some doubt about church service. Would men be willing to make a service agreement with the church on 4,000 squares and 3,000 tombs, 2,000 weddings, and 4,000 baptisms? We're not doing this. In addition, we are not in themselves demanding some performance measurements of other religions in Iceland. Far from it! So this discussion is there, in my opinion, a little on the wrong side. I have a measure of concern about how the working conditions of the undertows are changed, so it's a good thing to do. Minister is here. The change is to be made so that officials will no longer be appointed. Rather, they will be the employees of the National Church. I ask: Is he suddenly, a year later, a priest appointed to be an employee of the National Church, or does he hold the rights that were given by the order as a appointed official out of the time? I'm not aware of this bill's reading. Will this be the case, at least for a few years, that, so to speak, the National Church will be the Church of America? She'll be in the same position as The State Radio Ohf.? Now there's a matter of segregation from the state, but we'll take it later. It doesn't seem clear, like. when changing the working environment of these institutions and companies whether they are government employees or not. This applies, e.g. We're with the members of the state radio, so I'll give you an example. I feel that there's some way this needs to be explained before we go further. I feel that the presentation of many senators - and I'm going to let myself tell you how it feels to me because men have been here with such a fine trinket about what evolution will be like and all of it - as many have. Councilmen did not study the church's services. Yes, people have spoken of a good paying and a very urgent price, that there should be an increase in the availability of psychological services. I couldn't agree with that. But we have one word that is used of what happens in church. That is one of the most beautiful words in English. It's called a heartbreak. I want a man to have a soulbreak if he needs it. Now I've not really studied what it's like, e.g. beds where death occurs in families and lifestyle groups take possession of funerals and funerals; I am not quite aware of such factors as How soulbreak takes place in such company. But I intend to look for information on it. But I find very interesting about the philosophy of society, which many of whom have borrowed from God's house or rented for action, that they seem to in many cases to begin by clearing away all the symbols found there, e.g. ... onan altar. Now I don't know what kind of rules are if you rent a house and clean out everything you don't like, whether it's usually part of that kind of deal. So there are some things in this world that make me feel that somehow people are being pushed more and more into it -- it's not just here, it's very popular, for example. In Britain too - excuseing others to hold to Christian beliefs and to stand with their church. In itself, I find that discussion rather odd and not necessarily eager to participate. According to these words, I suppose, because there has been a rumor that all people should have the same access, whether it is the church or anyone else, to give an example of an account that is not the same. While the church is banned from associating with children on Christmas, writers go to school and read from books they sell before Christmas. And then you ask again, wait, where is this equal access, Mr. President? Where is it? I feel that somehow there's a hole in the world that's been exposed to human language. Then, naturally, it's wonderful for men to come here and say, "I feel that this is how this nation feels, but I think the Association should be of everyone's sympathy. Is anyone just going to choose this for us, what is national and closer to the soul of the nation? Is it the National Church or the Associate - with great respect for him? I'm just not there because I have so much intolerance to the opinions of others that I have to follow this path. But if they want to, they're naturally totally free. But I feel like there's some kind of opportunity to know to those who don't feel right about them, and there's a certain self - exaltation in wanting to choose for us who the Agency is more national, the Associative Society, with great respect for it, or the national church. I can't imagine that we are the individual ones who choose for others. But if men are to have access at all times, and if they are to have access and all of this, perhaps I would suggest that they continue to give the New Testament here, it is not forbidden as it is in North Korea. That would be, for example. Good start. I think we may also want to wonder, " How are we at the head of planning religious instruction in school? ' If writers can go to elementary school and elementary school on Christmas fast, I don't really think that the clergy and representatives of other lifestyle groups can do that too. To do that, I say again, to even access. I don't know if this bill can pass through the council at the time we're being measured. I'm not optimistic because, of course, human hearts are fraught with what we have seen here. And it's good because it's a matter that matters to all of us. That is why it is very good for this discussion to be deep and long, as long as it needs to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u143	A respectable president. I'm not from the fact that I sensed repetitives from the last language barrier I faced. A senator a few months ago, about the third energy package, where the discussion was all over but the bill itself, as is the case. It is clear that this is in general the position of the National Church in Icelandic society, not the already existing bill. It is likely to be discussed at any time. Senators, but now we are discussing this bill, which simply focuses on the fact that present employees will be, not public employees, but employees of the Episcopal Office or National Church. I couldn't hear from a talk. A senator would agree with that or not. In fact, he seemed to have very little expression on the subject of the bill in his speech. Perhaps the next talk will help. Senator. But I wondered, and it might be good to hear from him in answer, whether he agrees with it. The Church worked closely with the head of the Ministry of Three Advisors of 2015, and this is part of that work and conclusion. [[The president calls.]] I may be able to hear it first, but then I'm going to answer it. A senator next door.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u144	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this answer. In fact, the answer was that she hasn't listened much to my speech because I was just talking about worrying about how the people here changed into some sort of ohf. workers, after the approval of this bill, would be put on. I also reviewed in my speech how this discussion has been extensive and was responding to matters that have come along, and a minister may have heard down in the House of Congress, even though she did not share in the discussion. So I'd like to protest that I didn't talk about the bill. And, yes, I'm sure worried about what the position of these employees will be. I also say that since 2015 this work has been done, why is this bill being brought in 15 minutes at Christmas in 2019? If the work has been done all this time, and the discussion wasn't long enough, and could this bill be brought in earlier so that we could have more time to go over it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u145	A respectable president. So I'll start by answering again. A senator might then have listened to my debate, since I answered all the questions raised in his speech, including the following: regarding the position of officials who have been appointed until the next year. There is a new provisional principle on the rights and duties of employees who intend to keep the rights out of their time. This is totally clear, and I did well in my history, but it must then be planned by a synod to appoint the laws and regulations that will be disposed of by the law, and this is a provisional principle set out in the bill, and it must be made easy to learn about it, both in the bill and in my history. Of course, for the reasons that the bill has not arrived earlier, it is clear that treaties were not reached until September and that the rules and laws needed to be reviewed. There were agreements that the Church's employees would be the members of the National Church from January 1, 2020, when these laws had to be changed first, and this work was started at the Ministry after negotiations were reached and entered. Then there are other laws and funds that came into agreement with the church, which I will bring next year, as I spoke about yesterday, in my history and in my answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u146	Madam President. I listened attentively to the frontnote address. Ministers, but it may well be that I missed one or two points because it was extensive. But of course, I'm glad that this is an attempt to secure the rights of their employees. However, I do not go down because this bill is an attempt to give us a small amount of full separation between Church and State. It may not have happened to the highest level. Minister, what she's going to do with it. Will she fully work for Church and State separation, and how and when? There would be natural information that would be needed because it is much bigger than we could do in 15 minutes before Christmas at one council. When that time comes, I hope that the matter and the matters that follow will be better prepared and done in a better time than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u147	Madam President. It would take place in the middle of the next century to answer all the misspelled questions. A senator but only to deal with some of the majors, it is not forbidden to distribute the New Testament in Reykjavík. It is not forbidden to take children to church. Both parents are perfectly allowed. And I would say that few things are as good as reading the Bible and other religious literature. I would really just encourage people to read what most people are, and of course children should be able to access them. The sects are no more national than the nations. They're at best even. When I mentioned this earlier, it was in an attempt to point out the twin to support something other than that. But I'd like to say it's the right thing to do. A senator that it is not good to talk about this as emotional intimidation, the fact that the matter is now being done. The timing is bad, but the timing may be the main thing, so I would like to ask. A senator: Has he seen anything on this bill that indicates that there would be negative consequences because the matter would not be resolved by the year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u148	Madam President. I can point it out. A senator may need time until the next century, but he will have a five - minute talk that he can open and answer for me, perhaps more than one speech, if that is the case. Then I look forward to further communication with him on this matter. It may be right next to you. A senator that it is the right way to make it possible for most people to read the New Testament and other things so that Christian faith can be overthrown, and I expect the Pirantar Party to take the bait, for example. for the next election to distribute the Christian religious literature so as to be thoroughly aware that it will all go anywhere. [[Up front.]] Otherwise, I didn't have so many questions. But, yes, I don't know any better than the principal schools in Reykjavík, i.e. Teaching counsel in Reykjavík, has forbidden the release of the Gideon Society here of the New Testament, and it has appeared both in news and elsewhere. If it's changed, I'll be happy. A senator must do the same if, as he sees desirable, his worship and Christian faith fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u149	Madam President. My goal is not to undermine Christian faith. I think that's what religion does for itself. But I would really like to distribute religious literature, which, in fact, has been a major part of my life. But I asked one question, which was why. A senator would have seen something on the bill indicating that the date was so important that it has to go through the council at these hand races, whether it really matters. True, I would like to use this opportunity to point out why. There's a senator up to 17th. In the bill, there are aspects of the priesthood. It's pretty clear there. But if he hadn't read pars 17th. he may not be able to answer questions about the importance of the date. For my part, I haven't seen any particular reason why this has to be over. Certainly it would delay the acceptance of the additional contract. But okay. This may happen sometimes when negotiations are too late for the council, and that may be the key.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u150	Madam President. This question, I suppose, would have to answer like an old man. It is considered preferable to change the structure and systems that work for the year and year as a result of the misunderstanding with others. Since the Pirate Society is early in computer processing and so forth, I think they realize that it is more than reasonable to other humans, and it also affects budgeting and other financial productions. I think that's what's to say here, based on this timeline. True, it is said that the Synod confirmed, etc. In the spring months, but that may be what I think is fundamental. However, I strongly criticize the fact that the matter has not been done before so that we might consider it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u151	A respectable president. When you look at this additional contract further, it's actually a pay contract. This bill is the very arrangement for where and how the pay is paid, etc. It is only natural to talk in a somewhat broad context about the additional meeting and the church meeting and all that is involved in all that has to do with the church meeting and its predecessor, from 1907 C.E. onward, a case with the clergy's salary. It is set up in a paper about a change in church ship in 1907 that the purpose of this law is to increase the pay of priests. It was to be the foundation of property, and the State was really responsible for paying the difference, if anyone would - and then because the property did not depend on the clergy's pay when it all came down to it. When you think about it from that point of view, is it not only natural to talk about the rest of your meeting together when you talk about this exact bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u152	Madam President. Yes, that is so in many respects. In fact, in both comments and talks, I have already pointed out that this amount that did not work, as well. A senator testified, in fact, as an example of the State's superior position toward the church at the time of the agreement. It's quite well arranged, and I brought up one example here, probably in counter today, at which point. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, if I recall correctly, that one earth in the River Valley had water rights to use the CDC and the price for the water rights would never have been agreed on by the price of the contract if there had been a contract between two non-family parties. So I think, and I don't just think, I know that the church has a few things - I don't mean to say nothing - enjoy the benefits and habitats that follow many of the lands owned by the church and owned by the church in 1907 and before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, yes, I believe the church was loaded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u153	A respectable president. Would it not, then, be reasonable to have a table on which commitment is, as it should be done today for 2019? Something else I would like to ask you. Senator: At 79 C.E. When the church ship is changed, the constitution is discussed about the church ship and national law. I think in this case, at least at some point, the National Church is being changed from being an A-part institution and the staff and the clergy of the Church, from being public employees of a free partnership, so seen. When in that process would it change the church ship enough to make it require a national fee to accept these changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u154	Madam President. That's a great question. I appreciate it. I believe it is necessary for us to proceed with a national agreement when and if men think of separating state and church forever. What I believe could prevent this is exactly what it is -- it's exactly as fast as it is. A senator said - that the value may have to be appreciated again. I personally believe that the reason why the state has not been put to that conclusion is because it would be identified by this review and a review of what the church was doing in its own time with this agreement. I'm not sure that the state could necessarily afford to separate state and church in a final way if it should provide a fair price for the property below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u155	A respectable president. I can't last the night, and probably not the 1st. or 2nd about. to review all the comments I would like to make in a language at the same time. Senator. It has to be. I'm gonna do one thing, and it's how to do it. A senator makes it appear that the Church is a terrible blackmailed by equal justice when it comes to the distribution of sacred literature to children or to the travel of children to church or such. The trick is not that something is forbidden. The secret is equal. It is self - determination, and it is clear and simple. So I want to ask you why. Senator: If we have the New Testament or the Bible for free distribution to schoolchildren, do we not also have the Bhagavad Gita, Hindu sacred writings, or Koran, Muslim holy writings, Mormons, Mormon sacred writings, the Reversus by Richard Dawkins, the Satanic Bible by Anton Lavey, Dianetics by L. Ron Hubbard, or Guð is not great: How is all religion poisoned by Christopher Hitchens? I'd say no myself. I don't think it's appropriate to place such publications in elementary schools that are all for us. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u156	Madam President. It sounds to me that I have more tolerance for other people's opinions than why. Senator, this is how soon you look. I personally see no problem that other religions or religions can promote their literature. I don't see any objection, e.g. That schoolchildren should give the Koran free, not any thing. It is a beautiful book, and much of it is good to find. So, no, I don't see any resistance. On the other hand, I've felt -- how was that spoken yesterday? That I am religious or something like that at the church and that I may be incompetent in this case - all criticism directed against religion in Iceland today and others primarily against Christianity. I'll find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u157	A respectable president. I must assume that at least the other books are welcome too. I'm willing to have a better conversation with what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. What matters is that it is equal. On the other hand, as for such things, there is still a difference. A senator says that during the discussion, Christianity is, with all due respect, a respectable president, a rather far - fetched opinion. All religious groups complain of being included in the discussion. Also atheists, in case a religious group should be called. In all religious communities, it is extremely rich to talk about the oppression of religion, usually because of some historical oppression, the oppression of Christians here or there, in Greece or Rome, etc., the oppression of Muslims here and there and elsewhere, and so on. Often, it is very old, and many stories about such oppression are typical, unfortunately. But the theory that Christianity is somehow beneath the Icelandic community, which has a special protection in a constitution, which is overwhelmingly the largest religion and protected by the General, a national church with which the government deals and seems to be part, is entirely a pitiable, respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It is completely absurd and contrary to all the facts of the entire case involving the issue that is leading to Christianity in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u158	Madam President. I'm especially glad to hear that answer. It is now that the most noisy missionary in Iceland today is unconvinced. There's a lot of it going on, on community media, and all over the place. It is the form of proselytism, apparently on the grounds or by the method of speaking down the National Church for its impossible in all ways, etc. But now I come back to what I said in my speech, for now I spoke up. A senator a little bit like he was talking about the National Church, like Hagah or the Radarsell among religious groups, and I just don't feel quite the same way there. Of course, there are about 2/3 members of this congregation, and that is why the State has held hand to support and protect this church, as the Constitution actually commands the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u159	Madam President. I would like, as many others have done during the discussions, to talk to a great deal of other things than the ones directly presented in the bill, but I intend to start with it. Then I'm going to say a few words is about the Constitution and the position of the National Church associated with it and the viewpoints that have come up in the discussion of equality, including budgets, and points on the link between this contract and the government law on public finances. Then I may be going to put the emphasis on trying to unwind what seemed to be my experience, especially for certain political powers during the discussion, which turn to the fact that the so - called church meeting is bad for a trust fund. There's been a very bad statement about the agreement. I can see right here in front of me in the hall. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who has had a limited willingness to accept this agreement, so I try to put it gently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u160	No one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u161	The Senator says there's no one here, as he's been shining through in his lawsuit. But I will briefly enter the viewpoints I first mentioned. First with regard to the Constitution and the bill and the state of the Congregation within the Constitution. The highest story. The Minister of Justice of Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir last night was a fine man who was tore the matter in a way that is common at 1st. But there is one point that I would like to dwell on in my talk. Minister, i.e. to imagine that the nations would, about unavoidable because of social evolution, would break out of the Constitution within some indefinite period of time. I hope to the highest. The minister of justice said this in the stream of the talk she was giving because I hope it is not the highest attitude. The Justice Minister of the Independence Party that it is one of the following matters is scheduled for the removal of the national church and its regulations from the Constitution of Iceland. I wanted to say about this particular point, as it was not long ago, in 2012, that a poll with the work of a so-called administrative body was conducted in which two-thirds of the subjects, just about, declared their firm claim that the state of the Church would remain secure in a constitution. Next, I'd like to introduce briefly the views that have developed in this discussion that is in terms of equality and that of religious, national, religious, and other biological organizations on the other hand. There's been a misunderstanding during the discussion that there's a similar equation. It is as if those who have most convinced themselves of the possibilities and failures of this so - called church meeting refuse to recognize that a large part of Iceland, a large part of the land, was given a government fund as the mood of the penalties that took place. I don't know any property that Civilian has given to the state funds. I don't know of one single possession that superstition has given to the state funds. And so you could count. I don't know these examples, but if they're there, it'd be interesting to see such information. I'm not a senior, but just before the Reformation, there was one way or another, about 45% of the country was owned by the church. By the turn of the century, this is about 26%. I don't think I'm in the position at the time of the delivery, but we're out of the way of talking about the substantial value given to the state. Some figures suggest that the value of the earth can now be calculated to 33/4 billion on the basis of the figure set out in a report on the resolution of this agreement, but at least some members of the Porta council today, although I do not trust to specify who have done so in speaking, have already entered into the air of this price assessment and nothing about it. Of course, all the payments that have taken place since 1997 or 1998, as we have repeatedly discussed, there is no pay against all the principal chairs under which we have been living. Much closer is involved in making interest payments from a capital chair. This is consistent with the understanding expressed in the law No. 50/1907, for sale of churches, says in 16th. par., with the President's permission: The glory of the church park's treasure shall be fruitful as an unquenchable capital... The difference is that during this time, there are funds that are at the Churchyard Fund, and the throne will remain intact forever. But what happens then in later contracts is that the head office never comes in for financial payment. Rather, it is all over these years paying what may be considered a interest payment from this capital. I just got in on it yesterday. It is well - known in financial studies, it is called in English, by permission of a president. In Icelandic it would probably be an unmannerly bill, as thin as it may sound. That's what we're looking at. They're comparing apples with oranges, and even much more fruit than that, in long chapters. There are two distinct equations. On the one hand, the Icelandic National Church is the one that puts into it enormous value in the form of land and land, and rights of water rights, as has been discussed here today. Whole communities stand on earth, which was a church, and so on. On the other side, we're trying to say that institutions of biology with all the rights they've had to stand somehow equal in this respect. That's a totally ridiculous idea. I have to admit, I think that even though other people came into this relationship, why? Porta's members were most aggressive in this position and wanted to set it up as a legitimate view. At least that's where I disagree personally. This is different. We must not confuse the discussion in a way that allows us to forget that the mood of this act is up to a quarter of Iceland. [[Foreground on: No.]] We have to talk about things the way they are. I just want to establish a law on public financial matters, which is a point that I actually wanted to come to before I went to the church meeting itself. It has regularly developed in our discussion that the laws on government finance are made in such a way today that this agreement would not last. It may be well applied to a number of aspects of this contract made at the end of 1996, if I recall correctly, rather than in 1997. It undoubtedly contains a number of issues that would conflict with the laws on public finances today. Of course, such laws are not repetitious, as are other laws that we set. It has come to the view that they should at least apply to the Annex Treaty - if we consider this an Annex Treaty now, what is being transferred into this suit of law - and that this procedure should be under the law on public finances. If that were the case, and then I'm not just talking about the deal that's being made up right now, that is definitely more government contracts, I'm sure it would draw them up to a more reasonable level if the contract had to be taken up from the bottom of the ground. When people perceive the position as being the whole political element inside the General Assembly, which, in its best interests, looks out on the basis of the agreement, it is unlikely that they will raise valid agreements in a reasonable way, but rather try to extend them in a way that was originally proposed, even though it may be unwise to do so. So I don't think we have to be too Fundamental in these materials. The church meeting is signed in 1997, and I don't find it illegal to approach matters in a way that should, as a whole, be under the law on public finances as it is available to us today. Back to the view that points to whether the church meeting is a bad deal for the State. Of course, as I've said before, we need to view this as interest payments with a head chair that hasn't been paid, in line with what appears in paragraph 16. track No. 50/1907 on church sales, which can be regarded as one of the exceptions of this agreement. If that's the way we look at it, there's a chair down there somewhere. Some evaluation is needed if a person wants to accept this agreement. Then the work must be done to determine precisely the value and value of the church over the years. These include water rights, fishing rights, and other real estates possible, and so forth. It's going to be incredibly complicated, but I'm sure it can be done. I think that the way we have within this agreement, within the laws that frame the agreement, despite all the benefits for us, both for the state, for the general people, and for the church. I do not experience this as if the government fund had made up with the church meeting. I experience it that if we just produce the number of fruits that can easily be reasoned, if we produce the interest value, we don't have such a figure in the head that it's quite out of the map. Now we're here on the other hand, staging 200 billion damages to an apartment loan fund. Based on this payment of 3.7 billion in 2017, with 7% interest, it is a capital height of 53 billion. That's a quarter of what we're packing over the problems of a camp loan without losing. So I don't experience that the government fund made up at this time. There's a possibility the situation is the opposite. In a second speech, I may come to see that there is a view that we should compensate for the church, what she gave in the wake of the bank collapse. [[The president calls.]] Should we examine the place of the cemetery, and how the funds have been cut down? There are a lot of things in the church environment that have been exposed to economic cuts during the past few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u162	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u163	A respectable president. Like what? A senator himself said that he had little to do with the bill itself. He announced this at the beginning of his talk. Of course, the debate here today is very small in terms of the bill on whether the members of the National Church become the employees of the National Church, not the State, from the year forward. I'm sure it's as I've said before, to discuss in later cases of the National Church and in a larger context. Because of what? A senator specifically quoted my speech, I've said it at a church council, and I've discussed it publicly - that the requirement for equality between different religions and society becomes more pronounced, especially among the young generation. But this bill is about that very little. It is only a matter of increasing church independence. The church's increased independence to control its own affairs is part of the agreement made with the church, and we follow it. The federal church itself is preparing very well to take over its staff matters from year to year. Hv. A senator cares about the church, like me. I'd sign up for it myself if it wasn't a national church just the way it is today. But the church is always under construction, and the church must find the right harmony with the nation. It depends on whether they have the support of the nation, whether people will turn to it in difficult matters, as well as in joyful moments. It is up to the church, and it simply does not have anything to do with how its relationship with the Kingdom will be maintained in the future. It is only about how the nations will be in the future and whether they will keep in touch with the people of the land and the people will want to be part of it and turn to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u164	The president apologizes for forgetting to adjust the clock, but in view of four in a row. Congress responds to the talk period only one minute of each session. V.E.G. This mistake was made by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u165	Madam President. It would have been great if I had to. A minister would have been allowed to speak for five minutes, but not just two. But now I see I'm down for 50 seconds. I think we're at the highest. A minister is to some extent disagree about whether it matters and whether it has a special place in the republic's constitution. I think it's really important. It sends the message that the Icelandic people want the Church to be here in one way or another, giving support to the community in which they work. We saw this in the 2012 poll where just about 2/3 parts of the country wanted to have the National Church framed into the Constitution. 63.5% is this, I see right here. So I think, fortunately, more part of the country would agree with me at the moment than with the highest. Minister on this particular point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u166	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is beginning to put words in my mouth and it would be good to have two minutes here. But since I haven't them, I can only say that I'm not suggesting that I take the law from the constitution. I'm gonna pray. A senator not to put those words into my mouth. This is not a new deal. That's an implementation of the arrangement made with the church when I was seven years old. They're trying to figure out how to make payment. This bill implies that the church's employees are not the employees of the State but the employees of the National Church. Despite this agreement, the National Church will continue to have the support and protection of the Icelandic State on the basis of the constitution. There's nothing in this matter about it or anything else. Senators have been talking here all day. The 1997 agreement can be discussed. There is a very special discussion that could be taken. Then the independence of the Church could be increased in another way. I'm going to have to turn the folk's law into harmony with the agreement we've made with the National Church, and that bill I'm going to come along in spring. [[The president calls.]] I'll have a few things to break out of that law, including Of the funds and the rest of the agreement. But that is not part of today's discussion. It would be fine if it were. Senators would stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u167	The President reminds us of everything. Councilmen and the highest. Secretary of the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u168	Madam President. V.E.G. Of course, a minister should have had more time now, as before. I'm sorry, it wasn't my intention to go to the top. Minister to mouth. I was laying out her words in the entropy speech yesterday and that cheek of the highest. A minister I'm going to allow myself to call so, in his speech was connected with, that I think, not exactly the subject of the bill. It was a popular concern about the position of the National Church, the evolution of a changed society, as it were. Minister said so. It wasn't my intention to park the highest. Minister to mouth. I'm very happy to hear that opinion. A minister may not be as much alone in that regard as I experienced when I listened to a talk. Minister of great conscience last night. I think we're going to resolve to defend the status of the National Church in the Icelandic Constitution, it and all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u169	A respectable president. Hv. In this talk, as he has done in the past, a senator tries to view this as some kind of interest on loans. I just want to point it out. A senator says it's not interest. These are pay payments, as is clearly stated in the laws presented here to be changed. There's no head chair. Hv. A senator has had a few words about how he can be calculated, and I hear a figure of 53 billion, which, in view of infinite numbers, is not very much, and it is quite possible for a government fund to collect that amount in the number of years. It doesn't have to be two, three years. It may be longer because of me, but it is fundamental that it is then a reward, that one day it may be completed. In the additional meeting, this arrangement is set up as a "finishment, " which obviously is not the first payment to continue forever. So I like it. First of all, a senator needs to stop talking about it as interest payers. [[The president calls.]] These are not interest payments. In case of a moment. A senator would like to find out some head chair and change it to make it a loan or, at least, a head seat, I feel like it's a problem. A senator should support that suggestion rather than pretend that it is something it is not. There is no principal, and these are not interest payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u170	Madam President. It is now in the relationship between two lawyers that they may bind the development of payments - interest payments or whatever it may be - to whatever they want. Therefore, at the position of the heavenly bodies. There may be limits in the new laws on government finance, but there are a lot of restrictions on these items when it comes to business agreements. So if I don't have a head chair in the government convention itself, which I'm with here with me, that doesn't mean that the basic thoughts are not in place as far as the opposition is, of course, the development of the earth. Everyone who reads that agreement and knows the story is facing it. I think it would be very interesting to cover the real worth of the earth that the church suggested because I think it's much, much higher than the 53 billion I mentioned as evidence that the church could have composed in this position - but it's just such a simple suggestion that the interest of the annual pay relative to 7% interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u171	A respectable president. Well, I'm not better at it than I am, so I think 7% is just a little high. No matter what, I'd like to face it. A senator of Marty's religious policy, but it is, by permission of the President: The position of all religious and biological organizations must be fully separated from the state and the state of the church. On the State Church the same laws and rules as on other religious and biological institutions. The Treaty of the State with the National Church on Churches (from 1997) and the Priesthood (from 2006) should be reviewed in accordance with: a) The fair and reasonableness of the government's payments compared with the relevant property. (b) Whether the government's payments are more reasonable than paying for use. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with this policy or if he has something to do with it. I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator mentions 53 billion, such as the National Church written by him. There is no fear - inspiring amount according to the size of a man. A senator keeps talking about. So I'm a little confused about what it's like. A senator would find it wrong to go that way, if anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u172	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's the right point. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is mistaken. When I name the number 53 billion, it's in the air. It's just a peak that comes from the other two numbers that you can set off. The annual pay is fixed. You can play with percentages any time. The Sikh bank's days in 1998 were 8%. I just took a random date. The average interest in state funds from unsecured documents a year ago when I examined them was 7.45%, if I remember correctly, with a slight margin of error. One hundred percent of the number has simply been found that way. It's not a deeper measure than that, because it's not the goal. The point is this: The number 53 billion is not practical because it is too low for the great value given to the State by the church. That's the point. But since I have one second left, I can see why I'm in the Central Party, not with the Pirates, but with your policies, I'd love to discuss it with you when we have more time. There are a number of reasons why it would be reasonable for you to take those steps. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u173	A respectable president. I find this growth process of the Middle Party a little interesting. Now, there's no capital for that interest, but knowing that the Middle East cares about the good treatment of taxes and that government funds are ousted by responsibility and that the interests of taxpayers are breast-fed, I'd like to say: The State Fund puts the Church in its resistance, we can say, in terms of interest to interest interest, u. 3.5 billion a year, inflation. The prices of interest from government bonds today are 1%. If we were to use this 1% to raise or calculate the value of the land that was supposed to have been replaced there, the value of the $35,000 billion, which would be 12- or 13-fold domestic product and 35-fold the budget per year. It's a bit of a park, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u174	Madam President. Now I'm just gonna have to be embarrassed. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, former executive director of the employment sector and executive director of a business club, for confusing prices and indiscriminate growth. It's completely forbidden. You can't compare 7% of the unconvinced growth to 1% of the prices of interest. You know that. This is, with President's permission, a piece of shit you can't use again. But this may well be what I said in answer to what I said. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, 53 billion, of course, is out of the air, just because of interest over 7%, and I think the figure is much higher - but, of course, it's not 33.500 billion, as I think it is. A senator mentioned earlier, according to one hundred percent of the interest requirements, which has become quite different from what we are discussing in the real world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u175	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to make the proper use of comments in the Hall of Congress. We're talking about noble senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u176	Madam President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It takes changes every year in prices, and as a result, it is only right to raise the number with the prices of interest paid by a government fund, not indiscriminate interest, otherwise we would be paying for the inflation twice. It's just a basic part of financial science. Of course, they must look to it as well that they are already in need. A senator mentions 7% unconvinced growth - and then we can talk about what prices were then - perhaps even the very point where interest rates have dropped very much since 1998 and can't be expected to pay fixed interest, whether in securities or insure, to eternity, as they were in 1998, when it has been a continuous growth decrease all over the streets since then. holding such interest cannot be a good deal for the sake of a government fund. I think we can agree on that, huh? A senator, that this church meeting that some sort of property trade can't stand. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator would be willing to buy my property at those terms, and I'll be glad to sell it to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u177	A respectable president. When it comes to today's appearance or growth requirements, it is based on a point position. Hence, during this operation there is an attempt to use unconvinced growth. It is important in these matters. Hence, it is normal to use unsavourable growth in the growth calculations. It has nothing to do with the development of both crops, interest rates, whatever we call them, that have developed in a certain way during the contract period. Hv. A senator asked me if I was willing to sell him some property on such terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u178	No, buy from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u179	Buying from you? Well, if you could offer me the amount of land the church gave to the state, I'd probably be willing to. I'd probably need a powerful sponsor, but I don't think the amount would be a problem. But there was one more question there, if the President forgives me, which I haven't reached yet, but at the moment I don't remember who is, so it has to come next. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u180	A respectable president. Let's just talk about this head chair. The report on church property in Iceland, from 15973/41984, has been very extensive in the subject, and it has gone many years in this analysis, in causing all church property since 1597 - it was taken a short period of time after the Reformation because there was a certain failure. So the final product was indeed all church property. They were real estate records, and they were divided between churchs, candidates - the people who owned the earth - and then in mutual partnership. It was determined as to what was heard in the church, what was heard in the house, and what was thereafter to be cultivated. That's why it's made a lot of difference. This total amount ends for the whole country in just over a billion dollars, or 1,072,774,128 k. Now it is simply so that we know that property and land may sell at a slightly higher price than real - estate values, but never is the astronomical difference. A senator seems to suggest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u181	Madam President. Of course, in this context we need to look to the real world. If we are going to evaluate the true worth of the assets that the church gave to the state funds by this agreement or agreements, then the work that needs to be done, as I came to the previous answer, if people want to get to the bottom of a real capital there. But I just didn't realize one point. I've looked through these 384 pages. The report, prepared in 1984 and is a very detailed member of the Church Committee. It's a huge piece of work to look through. But I overlooked the fact that there was a real estate estimate for the land delivered on the top of a dollar. Not a billion, not a million, but a dollar. But then I have to admit, with all the knowledge and ability of Pirata, that if it was possible to calculate the real estate assessment of 1 k. on all these levels, how is it possible that the underlying properties are unknown? Wouldn't that be a question? I know why. paritaprevir Piratha Bjöln Levi Gunnssson is a great amateur for inquiries. Then he might snap into one of those.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u182	I've already done that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u183	A respectable president. This document is snoozy. A senator points to is not the correct document. There is no package number two published in 1993. [[Up front.]] It's where all the assets are. There is a document on some 350 pages. with all the property up to the crown. In fact, it is very easy for me to get relatively close to the real value of these assets by simply looking at the differences between real estate assessments and terms on the earth sold at that time and then sold. What's the difference between real estate food and Congress sales? Well, then we should have more than half the number between, what's missing up there. More and more from 1 billion will never be the number as easily as possible. A senator has talked about interest payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u184	Madam President. I'm in a Björn. Gunnarsson If we look at the big picture on this matter, I don't think we'll make it through our conversation, we won't find out what our own personal value of an overcrowded National Institute is at present. I think that the most important thing is to keep possession of possessions was enormously extensive. I don't think that's what I'm saying. The government's not being loaded in the original agreement. If the Church can run everyone's work and service on these grounds, I think that's a big improvement. I just refuse to write that while paying for the National Church, with all the anti-earth conditions, there is less than the amount to the TV every year, it is too much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u185	A respectable president. I'm just going through the words of the highest. Minister of the case, but highest. A minister has been a little critical of that. Councilmen are going outside the subject, discussing the relationship between Church and State and Church, and the church meeting, and all of that. I disagree. A senator's concern is irrelevant. I disagree with the highest degree. A minister of the fact that we're getting outside the material. Then let me give you, for example, 16. The bill on this subject suggests that chapter V of the law, the state, the administration and practices of the National Church, be removed. This section consists of two articles, 60 and 61. It explains how priestly pay should follow the growth and reduction of members of the National Church and is beneficial to 5,000 people in the Law text, to 60 C.E. Just in time. It's not a little bit of a thing. This is part of the adjustment being made with the additional meeting. I think, with all due respect, a respectable president, to the highest degree. Ministers of justice simply do not understand what is contrary to members of Congress. They're against the added agreements, and it's an export. Hence, the additional agreement is reasonable in relation to the bill and, of course, the church meetings associated with it, ending an additional agreement at the church meeting. The treatments around this and the church meeting, followed by the additional contract, bear all the characteristics of this strange relationship that the state has with the National Church, and I completely disagree that this is not the case. Now I have the highest respect. No doubt a minister of justice would like to discuss these matters accurately. These laws are in context, taking on laws based on 62rd degree. The Constitution, and this special support and special protection, which allows what would otherwise be a violation of 65rd. The Constitution, of equal rights to the law. The bill is directly involved in the additional contract and the church meeting and directly how the payments are determined, and that is what the disagreements are about, from all the ways it stands here. The church meeting allows for a measure of the pay of priests or the number of workers to be determined, not entirely, based on the number of members of the National Church. Okay, okay. It is now known that no matter how we feel about it, members of the National Church have declined greatly. I don't think it itself makes me happy. I don't really care. All I think is that religious and biological organizations should be equal in terms of law and funding. Well, that's not the focus. Other than that, I don't care how big or small the others and these religions or principles are, it's just none of my business. If I don't care about religion in general, I'll just go into the community as a public citizen and argue about religion on the Internet if I want to. It's none of my business as a senator at least. For various reasons, the nation's church has been reduced. Part of it is that people are more informed about scientific things in my opinion, and hence the need for religious explanations to explain differently. There are all kinds of philosophical policies that arise and shape and change, which also influence where people turn to look for answers to our major questions, such as who we are and why and all of these. It is moral prosperity, in fact large and high, in the community. The #Meto Revolution is a characteristic that people's moral sense grows and develops over time, so people have more opportunities to look for moral answers elsewhere than in religious groups. No wonder it dries the National Church on the basis of where we stand in human history. Whatever the case, it is also natural to simply shrink because there are other options. There are many more Christian congregations available than there have been since then, if that is the case. I didn't mean to go into such much litigation during this brief period of time, but the point is that children are now being born, and the proportion of those who are automatically put into the National Church is less than 50%. And, no doubt, it is incorporated into the law to stop aiming at the increase or reduction in the number of members of the National Church. A respectable president. It matters. This is a characteristic that the state is negotiating with the National Church at the same time as it protects the interests of the National Church, not the interests of the taxpayers and citizens of the country. I disagree with the highest degree. Minister of Justice on what is being said because I disagree with the highest degree. Minister of Justice on how we disagree. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u186	A respectable president. I haven't missed yet. The Parliaments disagree with the 1997 agreement and the application procedure agreed in September. But this bill is not the agreement itself. It's only the smell involved with the employees. So I want to know what's wrong. A senator agrees with the change, taken away from the church meeting itself, if this bill stood alone, that the members of the Church become members of the Church themselves and the church have custody of it rather than of the State. I agree with what. The senator that the requirement for equality between religious and principles will be increased and there will be future policy. I think this is greatly increasing the independence of the National Church. We are making it more like other religions that have their own business and custody themselves, including People, the way this bill works. I see why. A senator in many of his claims, and even though I disagree with something, this is a bigger debate. But this bill can stand on its own, seeing from the agreement, in that we're just making an update on the workers. I'm asking why. A senator whether he approves of doing this or if he feels that this is the case, if no other changes were made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u187	A respectable president. When I'm at the highest. Minister of Justice says that this is only about the smell involved in the staff. However, Minister of Justice is talking about the additional contract and its import. On the other hand, I'm criticizing that the state is over paying for the church's exhaustive resources of the earth and paying for it forever. That's what I'm against. This bill is directly involved in that, in the case of 16. ... who takes away chapter V from law on status, control and conduct of the National Church. As for the way I would do this myself, I agree that another agreement will be made with the church, but it means that there will be payments so that the state will be in debt to the State one day and will not have to pay it anything beyond what it needs to pay to other religious and principles. I feel that this is an honest goal and proper goal. That's not what the bill does, that's not what 16. I do, and that is what I criticize. There is the connection point to the addition agreement and the church agreement and the relationship between state and church, all of which are in context. It's just that the discussion is totally in touch with this bill. Even though it's the highest. Minister of Justice doesn't consider this employee to be that large part of the package, I think he is. I think there's a connection with the church meeting and the relationship between Church and State. I simply disagree with the highest. Minister and it's just gonna have to have it. Asks how I would conduct these laws, and I answer them in a way that makes it strange for me to think there is a law on conduct, government, and conduct of the National Church. There are no laws on the situation, control and practices of the Association Society. Why would there be special laws on this subject? This is just an example of an abnormal solidarity between the state and this particular religion. This does not involve any reproach on the religion itself. It's an excellent religion, doing all kinds of great things. There's nothing on that set. It's not mine to put out on it. It is strange, however, to have this link between politics and religion. Of course, if we are not going to have certain religious views about how we run this land, there should be no connection. [[The president calls.]] That's the conclusion I want to see. I want to see it not only under the constitution and the law but also financially.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u188	A respectable president. Here's why. A senator is talking about a new agreement he wants to make about the State Church. It is then a discussion that must be taken and should be taken to the Hall of Congress. But she does not turn to this bill, nor does she shut down that conversation with the State Church. But, hey. Also, a senator did not answer the question of taking such a step away from another. I know I'm gonna do what I want. A senator stands to cut all ties, cancel all laws, take the rules out of the constitution, and complete them all on one board. It's not a realistic option. I wonder what. A senator, if he would like to put on them eyeglasses what is practical, does not feel that this is a good step toward promoting the independence of the church so that it resembles other religions that represent themselves, determine how many clergymen they need, how much money they are paid, etc. I think it's a good step, and I'm moving this bill that's only on the staff issue. Yes, of course it has something to do with the 1997 agreement, but it does not close at all a discussion of how we handle these matters permanently. I just agree with what. A senator, as I've told several times, says that there is a greater demand for greater religious equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u189	A respectable president. There are some things in this law that I don't object to at all. I can't get through all the articles in two minutes, but it's probably to be considered on a committee - not that she'll have time to look into it if that's true, not if the bill is going to go through before Christmas and timing. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice says - and I feel that it underlines a degree of predestination, though I find it hard to use that word, to be a minister and a member of the State Department - that this discussion can be handled completely, and I ask them: When? [[Take it up: ask for it...]] - Just now. Now, when we are discussing this church agreement, the additional contract, and the legal application of it, we take this discussion. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, nobody's ever asked for it...]] That is why we will discuss this at the speaking time that we receive. I don't quite understand this criticism. V.E.G. The minister of justice allows us to have some conversation, but then she does not want us to discuss the matter when it is scheduled. When I propose a case, I have to fight back and neck to get it over my head, and it's a nightmare to get it out of a committee and usually demand some kind of political violence, just to get people to start listening and how they agree that a case is taken out of the committee. A respectable president. It's just not right when it's the highest. The minister of justice speaks of a discussion that can be discussed, only when such issues are discussed here. That's why I'm gonna come in and discuss these matters when they're being discussed here, and it's all good. I can live with these topics when they're being discussed here. But I'll have to say no to criticism. Minister of Justice says that there is a matter in connection with this bill. [[For example: Religion has been discussed.]] This bill is not only about legal changes but also about exports that are rightly controversial. In my opinion, it is absolutely unacceptable in the democratic state to have this staggering financial relationship between state and church. That's why we'll talk about it when the bill's on the subject. It's not for me, so I'll witness at the moment. 5th a.m. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I hope I've answered the highest. Minister on the bill. I like it a lot, but there's Chapter V down there, and there's some work I have to do. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I don't want this to be legal, at least not now, and certainly not without a full contingency as planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u190	Madam President. During the past few days, there has been an interesting debate over the bill to legalize the law on the state's status, government and practices of the National Church, the rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the law on the welfare of the employees of the state, an additional contract of the State and the National Church. I'd like to start by using a small route and hope that I don't get much noise from a Senate hall for mentioning that the timing of the donation and timing of the 1st matter. It is yet another example of how governments treat the Allied Council. The Allied Council of Iceland is expected to be some sort of a time stamp for a case that comes from the government, some well done, some very badly done, and others must say the same thing at the moment. Based on the number of narratives that we get on special matters that we're supposed to pay for Christmas, i.e. other matters, must be said as it is, this practice is predestinable. What happens when we get issues like this, which I think are, in many respects, extremely urgent and good, is that you get suspicious. Then you think, " Well, what is it now? ' What's going on here? Why is it that a case based on an agreement made on September 6 is about to fall into 1st? Just before CREEP? What's being hidden? Why should the matter not be discussed in an acceptable way? Why does this not get adequate treatment on the World Council Committee? Why does the government not want the members of the Council to win the case so that the committee taking the time to bring visitors, have time to discuss it, have time to examine new and old comments, etc.? Again, I say: I'm sure there's a lot of good things in this case, but it seems who it is, because it's a big matter for senators to discuss. But we can't know that, and we won't find out before the rest of it runs through this case. The majority have the authority to do exactly what he wants. It remains that the government's budget will have to be paid for the damage, if damage occurs at that time and that time. We've certainly got the consequences of this in here when we see the need to put 5 billion here and 800 million there, etc. due to insufficient legislation at the council Hall. So I have to say once more that I have a deep disappointment by assuming that this case, which is right here in 1st. December 11, two days before the expected end of the council, we are now going to the General and Education Committee, upcoming, for coverage and receiving a three-week routine report - or what? - and then return to City Hall to 2nd. Um... maybe go back to the committee and then to the 3rd. Of course, it's a new year, and everyone long gone to Christmas holiday. It is foreknowable that this legal bill, of the change of the law of state, of government, and of the conduct of the National Church, which has a significant impact on all functioning clergymen of the National Church, will be at least I'm sorry. True, the church is part of this agreement, but it may be that those who have what they want to say, want to give in a review, or something like that. Unfortunately, the government does not offer such practices at the General Assembly, offering that another matter be run through without a professional discussion. But only in this matter: the church shall be, after the treatment of this matter and after the approval of the Generals, be responsible for its employees, what will happen to their wages, and their terms. You wonder, despite an agreement made on September 6, why it must take effect on January 1, 2020. If, on January 1, 2020, the government cannot bring in enough information if it does not trust to end the case at a Senate hearing prior to that time, is it not only right for those who accept it to know that delay is possible, that the law cannot take effect on 1 January 2020? It is also possible to do what is highest. Social Affairs and say: We certainly say in the bill that January 1, 2020, no one is saying that the matter has been resolved by January 1, 2020, as we discussed during the discussion the other day. I wondered, " Isn't it better for me to have a professional job at the council? ' Of course, the Icelandic Parliament is the lawgiver, not the executives, not the Ministry, and not the so-called consultations. Now I hadn't checked whether this case had been on the subject for a long time, and I don't know if any comments came in there. However, this is a meeting that takes place in a town. This does not change, however, that at this point the general council needs to examine the mind of those involved, or should, but is unable to do so at this point. There has been much discussion as to whether the complete separation of state and church will take place and who will see it? I am a co-sponsor at a synonym that suggests full separation of state and church and as a reason to point out that in Norway this has been the case. On January 1, 2017, the Norwegian became the law of their State Church, so 1,250 priests and bishops were no longer public employees, and the Norwegian Church became a member of that unity. This was adopted in the Norwegian Council. Now that we've been looking much over the years, I'm not sure that this has had a negative effect on the nation but on the contrary. I think it's better for the church that I think is a good organization, that her independence is improved. For this reason, I'd like to wonder if the concept of the Church of America is possibly a false name in this institution. Now, in fact, we're leaving it to be a government, she's been a statewoman. I'm wondering if she might rather be called the Church of the People or the Peoples instead of a church. The number of people in this state church in the past few years has declined, and you wonder whether it is wrong, because it has, of course, been disputed who speaks for the nation, that the church does not accept the permission to claim to be the church of a nation when it is actually just a church of the people. I'd think talking about the church would be more humble. It is more isolated than the nations, which is, in fact, much greater than the whole nation. I think maybe that's what we should be discussing here, if it wasn't right to change that name. I'm not going to go deep into the discussion of the separation of state and church this time, but I'm going to say again: The state and clergy of the National Church are now being separated. This raises some questions. First, the question is, Is it harmful for this issue to receive professional treatment at the council? Also, when clergymen no longer become public employees, they can be asked, "Is the administrative law valid for these employees, how do they handle them, and if they need to submit to government laws, and whether government laws on government value? " I think that's what they say in the report that it isn't. But at any rate, I wonder about the administrative law whether the Church will be independent and whether we will even look forward to a completely independent unity in the end. Otherwise, I can only see that we support this case. For most of us in the United States, we agree that the independence of the Church of the People, as it is called today, will be increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u191	A respectable president. Now this bill has to do with the church's employees and how they move between them, and an additional meeting seems to be a pay contract when 90% of the amount that is under there depends on a pay sheet. However, it cannot be possible if this is to be a payment and, in fact, a complete payment on the property supply or to buy some service or anything like it, if it is just a contract to be paid by priests in an independent church that is no longer an institution of the State. I'm trying to locate myself in this. There are so many things about both this bill and this contract that does not match the original objective of the church meeting, being the complete showdown on property, anyway. Then, considering this bill and how the pay rate is defined as part of the amount in the additional contract, 90% as I said is dependent on the pay number. Also, in our discussion here, it reminds me that this is about a particular service rendered by the church. If 90% of this is about the pay, how much is the amount of service paid? And how do we know that this service is being performed if, in turn, there is an opportunity for an office or a number of priests, and so on? How do we pay attention? What kind of service are we buying after all?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u192	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I have to say there are a lot of questions that are completely obscured by how to answer. Right away. A senator says that this bill is really a pay deal, I don't quite understand it. [[Up front.]] True, the bill itself points to an agreement, but it changes other laws, even though it points to why and how and in the agreement. The law is being changed so that priests will no longer be public employees in the state but will be under the church. Then, according to the words, the pay contract is with the church and no longer with the state. The government then buys services from this church, and I agree with that. A senator, what kind of service is being purchased, how and how often. There is little transparency, and you wonder whether it will last. You also wonder, " Can I start seeing any competition between the clergy? ' I don't know. Perhaps there will be the free market system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u193	A respectable president. I simply ask because now the National Church is exactly in Section A and has a sum of money under his side and in his litigation, etc. but for this change, it should probably be added to the Annex to the budgets that are in it and to be removed from the budget as such. Then we are at a certain amount of service rather than a remuneration contract, as the additional convention looks like it is worth about 90% of your salary, that 90% of the amount will change according to your salary. The rest is small in something else, and it is not too clear to what it is about. There is no discussion of how this is to be a payment, payment on property, which was originally to be a complete contribution to them. That's why I scratch a little bit in my head and I don't quite understand it. It is certainly here taking employees who are now government workers and moving them to a part of a contract of financial contributions and the amount of money, and that is why the added agreement is important, because it is the contract that will move and transfer the funds from the budget to the contract. Therefore, it is important to talk about the agreement and how it looks and sounds and what we're paying because we need to monitor the fact that the services we're buying and that we have a certain advantage in the use of public funds. Nothing like that can be found in the additional meeting, and that's why I'm asking how this can really be a pay deal, as it seems to be, even though it shouldn't be, based on the original church meeting and this transfer of the A-part institution into a contract agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u194	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. I have to agree completely with what. A senator, though, who is opposed but not an answer because we are not the same political party. Sometimes you think, " Yes, it's nice because I'm so attached to someone trying to get rid of this torture or to get married that misunderstood between the state and the church? ' I don't think this is good for either one of you in this misunderstood marriage. I agree that when you're making a deal, you'll have to understand where they're coming from. Of course, all of this would have to be recorded and examined. Of course, when such agreements are made, they do now and do so every day, asking: What are they paying, and what are the benefits? Especially when it comes to government funds, it is important that we look to whether we are. putting money on national electricity so that you don't have to set up a mass relief station now. We are ensuring that all citizens of the country receive adequate health care, etc.? When money is scarce or there is not a lot of it, despite our wealth, you need to watch where the money is going. Why and how? Of course, in this context, you should like everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u195	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I've been wondering a little bit about the same thing as what. A senator was wondering about his speech, why would he have to slip a case like this through the council at the last minute, so that it is quite obvious that the council cannot take much time to settle down and call for some expert opinion or to understand what might be behind it. V.E.G. During tonight's discussions, a minister has complained that there is something more than this bill, but the core thing is that my knowledge is that in 1997 an agreement was made with the church when about or over 90% of the people were in the National Church. That agreement has been added on the basis of prices and remuneration to all streets since then and has included a reexamination arrangement in 15 years. This reexamination law is now being submitted for another 15 years to revise this requirement. God knows how many people will be in the National Church then, but we continue to pay the State Church prices on the basis of prices and pay the same things that have been paid, even though so greatly decreased in the National Church. After all, the government may not want the council to discuss fully this simple fact, let alone the simple fact of my questions. Senator: Is it normal to bind the hands of the council to the next 15 years without the slightest opportunity for the council to discuss the basis for the agreement being bound by the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u196	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's questions are very much appreciated and started at the end of the councilman's case. He asked if it was reasonable to bind the council's hands to the next 15 years in a contract with an established agency. No, of course it's very unnatural. One of the presidents of the Iceland government has said that in discussions about our national hospital, the Land Hospital, which takes over and over on projects, including Because there is something wrong with a system like this that is taking more and more money than it is going to get. In this case, when it comes to the National Church or Church of the People, we have the position that the Church takes on more and more money because it made a 1997 contract that is so regularly updated with regard to prices, but it always reduces the number of them as ministers. They are considerably reduced, in contrast to our national hospital, the Land Hospital, who always receives more and more assignments, but the church is getting more money. Maybe I should ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether there is something wrong with such a system when the government decides to sweep money, not just from 1997, but in the next 15 years, into a system like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u197	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is a little technical, because, if I remember correctly, the ground is being referred to an agreement between the Church and the State in 1906. I know the Independence Party is a highly conservative party, but I think it's quite remarkable that there's nothing to interfere with, basically, an agreement that's approaching at 120 years of age. Much has changed in society as well as in the position of the church and other religions here at the same time. I reiterate, as I said in my speech earlier, that I myself am enrolled in the National Church and want the best things for her but I also feel that it is important that we be careful of the interests of taxpayers, state funds, and just the necessary priorities. I have to say, as I have to say, when the 1997 Justice Department of Justice was made, I feel a little embarrassed that the Independence Party, which is holding the Ministry of Justice now and holding the Ministry of Justice, is totally wasting the opportunity to go down on the basics of this agreement, whether it should be built up in the same way, or whether it might be a reason to turn it into building up to some extent. The worst part of my life is the fact that once again such a commitment is made to the council. The next 15 years, we are talking about expenses that will likely strike at the current cost of 60 billion dollars. This feels that the Commission can do without even asking the council or ask the council for confirmation of the agreement. [[The president calls.]] The Synod was approved, not by the General, but by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u198	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. I must fully agree, and again, and reflect on what I began my talk on, how suspicious it is that the bill is brought in just before the end of the council, that it is not to be discussed, not to discuss the booth, not to discuss commitment to the next 15 billion years. It is, in the highest sense, peculiar and raises very many questions. Why does the government not trust to bring this issue into daylight? Why does the Independence Party not see to it that this table is served by the International Assembly of the Icelanders in daylight? Why are you going to drive it through here in the middle of a storm during the night without talking about it? It's rather awkward to see this practice because it's such a lot of money, because some classes speak highly of shrinking the booth, and other groups speak very strongly of the government not putting money in something that may not be necessarily used, such as, for example, by other groups. public transportation, which I think, is a very good example of its widespread impact. Then I'd think there would be a great need to discuss all the commitments here for a phoney group, but I'd like to finally say in this round that I don't dislike the church, just not. She has done many good things for many people and is good for those who practice it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u199	Madam President. I want my second speech in this matter only to the church's funds. The church's main funds are parishes, church funds, and Christian funds. Now, in the new arrangement under discussion, the changes will be made - and the natural way that the church's finances - will be placed in one pot, so to speak. That is why it is important to me that when it comes to funding money, there is a measure of clarity and authority. I think, for example. It is not fortunate that the management of the funds is in the hands of five church councils. I think it would be reasonable to think there were three or four funds that would be elected by the synod. I think it's important that this be kept in mind so that the funds will be separated by special governments chosen by the council. This agreement has no definition of what the funds will receive because it is agreed that the state's funds will only pay a certain amount based on the 1907 church Convention, where a government fund owes itself to pay the clergy's pay, and then 1997 at the church level. But it is also all right to remember here that when these funds were founded at the time, they were partially improving the church's income loss when the State took over church property and profited from the 1907. I think something important is to keep this in mind. It is good for the church to have a clear and discreet attitude when it comes to the fund. These are funds that are very important, such as A fund of parishes. By the end of the 19th century, the maintenance and construction of the churches from the priest, as they say, will move to the congregation, but income will be for the sake of the earth and tax. Then, in 1907, church property was handed over to the State, which had always provided income for the maintenance of property and service to the congregation. This is important, e.g. With regard to the settlement, the small and small parishes that are there, the maintenance of these fine churches into rural areas that are now part of our cultural background and are important to us, the appeal for tourists, etc., these buildings must be maintained naturally. Few parishes have the means to do just to look into this fund. Not all cases have been new in terms of money being placed in church buildings, e.g. in the capital area. But those things I think are important to be clear when it comes to taking effect, and the funds will be in a new pot. A fund is a donation made by church council to the churches by special means and to balance the situation of parishes if income is not sufficient for expenses. Especially are smaller congregations looked to. I wanted this to happen, Madam President, that it's important that everything is going well within the church, ordering control over this fund and adapting to a new arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u200	A respectable president. In this discussion, I think that there are some that make members of the Parliament agree on things involving the organization, even though they may disagree about the relationship between state and church in general, and especially the financial relationship between Church and State. I know that me and what. A senator looks at matters in a very different way in terms of both the financial relationship and the administrative relationship, both of which seem unnatural and wrong in various ways. On the other hand, I believe the Church should be independent. I find it a little strange, though, that she should be given more or less control herself at the same time as she should have special protection and special support and be in this special financial relationship for whatever historical reasons it may be. But I wished to come back because I was already in trouble. A senator began his speech, which was no doubt interesting and important to members of the National Church, and for people interested in the work of the National Church, I began to wonder how it would sound if I came up here in a pita and started to talk about that I didn't feel there should be five people's government or that there should be five people's government or anything in some community I was in. That would be very strange. I thought it was a great speech, by the way. The senator reminds us of how strange it is to have such a connection. But I'd like to try to get past it. A senator shows where we could agree that things belong, not to the state, but to the church itself, i.e. where to not communicate between state and church. You see, there are a number of things in this bill that I'm totally into because I don't understand why the Church's employees should be government workers, and I think it's a strange arrangement, like all this arrangement. I find it odd that these laws exist above our heads. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I don't know how to get this out of my head as a question. I'm just wondering, "Do you feel it? A senator no wonder we're here discussing some of the church's internal activities? Isn't that a little strange? Should we not try to finish it and not have it like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u201	Madam President. I want to thank you. In response, a senator may be able to agree with him that we are discussing the additional meeting. We in itself are not discussing the church's internal activity, and that was not my intention here. I was simply pointing out the importance of their success, since the funds are important to these communities, especially in the country. I don't think there's anything unusual about the fact that there are speculations or reflections from this platform that deal with these changes, which are vigorous and come in motion. It is not unusual for you to name the things, to mention that it is normal to be successful, that it is transparent, and that you have a measure of control when it comes to the funds. I think it's perfectly normal for us to discuss these things in this context. But it is also true to remind you that although this arrangement has been discussed frequently, the Convention on the Churches is not revised in the new agreement. Hv. A senator has, for example, an e.g. Often come in on it. Then you might ask, " Is it really not normal when this arrangement is being discussed and the fundamental change is that now the church is in charge of its own finances, and the clergy are no longer government workers? ' These items are linked. Inadequacy and hopes for the success of these things are natural because, as I say, these are fundamental changes and a very big step toward church independence and self - control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u202	A respectable president. Now I wonder if I'll be able to make this clear. In advance of my lack of knowledge of the internal functions of the National Church, I expect that this will be the case. Now a certain senator was right in his own eyes, that the funds should be transparent, and therefore something like it. It's probably similar to what I would say if I myself were a member of this fine partner and doubtless something similar to what I would say about other societies I am a member or might become a member of later. Likewise, the senator's giving this speech, content, and purpose does not in itself make a comment. I just think it's weird that the situation is that it really belongs here. I'll try to find an illustration. At 62rd. The Constitution is based on a national church. The Constitution is already a complete political document. It describes how we want things to be. So if I was to come here and suggest that, not the Evangelical Lutheran Church, but the Catholic Church or the Federal Church in Reykjavík or just any other community, I should actually stand here and give religious reasons for what I would consider a very bad position, to come here and get religious argument. As much as I'd like to do that, I'd probably rather not. I don't think it's a normal part of what we do here. However, I feel that the Constitution is actually telling me that it is normal. That's what's so hard on this arrangement. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. A senator will mention the things he has mentioned. I really find it unnatural that it has to do with my job. I hope this was a good report. I don't know how to explain this better than that if I were in the position of being in a club and I was standing here in a pita and discussing that the government should be like this or gay, there should be transparency in funds and they should be so queer, then I'd wonder: shouldn't this be just a completely unacceptable Council? So I'd wonder. So I wondered, " How much do I agree with there? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u203	Madam President. Thank you for your meditation. It may be healthy to think of the Constitution and the government's support and support of the State Church. With reference to this, I stand in that chair, declaring that I hope that the great change that the Church now enjoys will bring blessings to the church and that they will use the freedom they receive through that fundamental change for the benefit of the nation. It may be my main thought in this regard when it rains. A senator was trying to make it seem unnatural for him to be discussing the church's internal activities, which can certainly be said to be, or may come to be, because they now go into one pot, and the role of the church itself is to dislodge the funds. In that respect, I expect those things to go well for me and that there will be good people who care for the fund and it will be, as I said before, transparency, and all the things that are supposed to follow good government because the funds are important to the country, especially in small parishes that are important, such as for maintaining buildings that are costly. How important it is, then, that we be reasonable and transfuse a kingdom in the distribution of the funds! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u204	A respectable president. For many reasons, this has been an intriguing discussion of bill keeping track of a change in the law of state, government, and conduct of the National Church. I admit that because of the other things at the Assembly Hall, I have not been able to observe the entire discussion, and as a result, I have not been able to enter very deep into the agreements discussed here much. At least I tried a little earlier. It's very interesting, that philosophical debate that I've been able to hear. The bill itself, which is discussed here, is neither large nor complex, and a minister did well over its contents. It is suggested to meet a certain agreement or to follow a certain agreement and a declaration made in the fall, if I understand it correctly, and to refer to the agreements that have been discussed here very much. I have to admit, I haven't studied this contract since 1997. No doubt there are many opinions about how this agreement should look and all. There is an increase in church independence and perhaps a greater responsibility than I have been to take steps that some have heard about, to the separation that many of them want to see between Church and State. It can be debated for a very long time whether it should be national, state, or what we call it, or whether it should be. Maybe my attitude is some kind of parenting thing, I don't know, I'm raised by the National Church, but I feel that it worked and I've done good. I know a number of examples of how many of her staff have been refreshed when they have needed it and others have not been there. I'm not saying at the same time that no one else can do that. However, this is a role that has in some respects been unique among church servants. It may be different in the large urban area than in the country. The amount of time in the country is often higher, and the importance of searching at a particular location is more evident. One might wonder, " How much is this worth? ' I hear it's also part of the discussion. I think it's hard to put your finger on what it can cost because, apart from this job I'm talking about, the comfort or the role that the church has in many places, there are, of course, many other tasks, such as relief efforts, helping needy people in Iceland and abroad. I'm baptized, but that doesn't mean all my children, they're no worse children for it than they chose not to. They're fine with that, some decided not to get confirmed, and this is something we respect. I had no intention of forcing my son to make any other decision than he wanted. I know, however, that he respects what I think the Church stands for and that it is important in our community. I'm in favor of religion in general. If people want to find comfort in other religions, they're fine with me. I view the church as much of our history and culture. People can criticize the fact that there are weak reasons, but to me it matters. Now I'm just outside the bill I didn't mean to do, but it's clearly part of a debate over these matters that you just fly. What I've heard from me has been very interesting, and I'm just very happy that not everyone would agree with this because it wouldn't be healthy if we were all the same when it came to such a big deal we're discussing here, to have some kind of organization that the Church is, and that everyone should be there and not be criticized. Then we'd be in a dangerous place. Of course, the church can be criticized and should be criticized as much as anything else. So I'll continue to be outside the bill, still try to get there in a minute, I'd like to continue to see the State Church. In 2012, the people of national law stated that they wanted to continue to have regulations for a State church. Should we ask that question regularly? It may well be. I'm not gonna say I'm against it here. You may want to measure the satisfaction or check it in a binding way. I believe, however, that in some ways, I merely criticize, not following the time, did not get into the way, and developed with the community. It should develop into certain objects, should be able to use technology and thus appeal to modern times, and should also have certain values for my good intelligence. In the secular world, however, trying to live by them is ours. We make mistakes, we make mistakes, and so do church ministers; let us not draw a feather over it, but I think it was a good time for us. I don't approve of her breaking up. Of course, Iceland is not the only state where this arrangement exists. If I know correctly, it has been tested whether this arrangement is in line with a constitution of religious freedom, and I think it has been confirmed. On the other hand, it's probably a different opinion, and I just think it's okay. Of course, it is a firm stand to have no faith, to stand outside all these fools that we have, and to respect them as well. Of course I do. I'm not going to get caught up in this negotiation, and I'm not going to look at anything at all, but the case is based on the contracts that have been made and the agreements that have been made recently, it's just being followed. I believe that there is in itself an improvement for both the government and the church that this separation is in this way. How far we should go, however, is another question. The matter in itself follows what has been done. Then it's okay to wonder if it's right. I would have liked to see this subject enter the council much earlier, as many here have criticized. It's just normal. Many have opinions on this matter and should have opinions about it. As a result, I agree with those who have said that it is lame or strange to expect the matter to be resolved quickly when both arguments and feelings are rich in the matter. It would have been better to have more time for that, but I don't think there's a reason in itself that it doesn't work out. There's been talk here about postponing it and taking it around in the middle of a year, something like that. It may well be possible. It is also possible to do so at the next year, to postpone a year if you want to discuss the matter further. I don't make a big difference, but there's something that they have to sort out, so if they choose to go that way. I think it's important that when this exchange becomes carefully considered to save, or what to call it, to the employees involved, that it's all taken care of. Sounds like it's the case here, and it's done well by a minister. There is no need to start creating some unnecessary problem in people. As one report shows, the objective of the additional contract is to achieve and have been a little discussed. Was this agreement due to be confirmed by the council? I don't know. You could say that it would be a good idea for all these contracts to come to the council. I don't necessarily agree with that. I think the company has to have some room to make a deal. I don't trust myself to tell you if it's to be drawn from these contracts or the amount in there. No doubt you can argue that the amount is such that the contract should have happened to the council. It would have been better to give more time to discuss this matter, but that is not available. On the other hand, I agree with those who criticize that procedure. What will result from this bill? Will there be any more work? I heard from the highest. Minister that this was the beginning of a process to explain this separation, to make it more obvious and pure. I stress that it is done in as much agreement as it can be. I don't know anything about the bill that hears under the church, I'll admit it. I don't know exactly how it all ends, but I think it's important to take care of it while decisions are not made that there are some other ways in which the Church has been given to them, that they have the opportunity to continue caring for them. I just want to reiterate what I said at the outset, and of course I didn't mean to, to go outside the bill, that my experience is that the community that the Church has been doing has been a good job. I have something to do with the matter after I've been in the church in the past and I'm like I said before being baptized, and I've baptized some of my children, not all of them, four weeks, not all of them. This is an institution that I clearly want to see forward. On Saturday, several of my sons, along with others, plan to have concerts in the church in a sheep plain and to collect money for the church's family help. It is an example when the church and individuals gather together and act wisely. This is a volunteer work there. Many benefit, hopefully both listeners and those who will receive support from the church. Of course, you can say: " Someone else can do the same. ' No doubt it is true, but there it is a pleasant cooperation and a little framed that, in many places, the church is extremely important, perhaps especially in smaller communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u205	A respectable president. I appreciate a variety of speculations. Senator, at least in the first part of his talk. Hv. A senator rightly mentioned that Iceland was not the only state in which this system of national or State is present. That is true, but it is almost unique among liberal democracies. That is very typical of more liberal communities. For example, in North Africa it is very common to believe nationalism, see Islam, and it is, for example, a national religion. and in Morocco, and in Egypt, and in Libya, and in Saudi Arabia. So in the Middle East and North Africa, this is very common. However, when it comes to so - called liberal democracies, which we prefer to compare with, this is almost isolated. Nothing far from it. There are Norway, Denmark, Britain, Iceland and Greece. Norway is about to stop this arrangement. Then there is Liechtenstein, Monaco, Malta, and, above all, the Vatican, of course. It's just Norway, United Kingdom, Denmark and Greece, i.e. which we call a big country, but some of them experience as small ones. Three of these countries are small states of Icelandic, Liechtenstein, Monaco, and Vatican. The United States does not have a church of state, in fact, on the contrary. It contains regulations for a State church, but the law says that it should not be a national church. Canada has no such thing, not Spain, Portugal, France, Germany, and Italy. Yet, these are lands where religion reaches people, is a practice of religion, and keeps Christmas to itself. They are doing their volunteer work. There is no need to have a special national church to support the good work that the nations hold out. Hv. A senator earlier said that nobody was forced to ride or be in the church. That's right, but we're forced to pay taxes - right. We are forced to pay in the common budget, and when it is this particular religious institution, the fine, fine religious organization, which receives this extra privilege beyond all the others that we also finance in some way, at least I think it's unfair. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not bad that the church is a profit in itself, but it is bad that it is done in the form of privileges over other religions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u206	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u207	A respectable president. I thank the contrast officer and the question when we met. I don't know, senators are never incompetent, but maybe you're somehow not enough, you want to think yourself with an open mind, but I don't see this just as well as a dog. A senator sees this. Maybe it's something that's not right here. I think it is, and there is freedom of worship in Iceland. Does the Church have a premedication? Yeah, definitely. I think it's okay. I can't hide it. I think it's okay because it's historic and cultural in my mind. Maybe it's parenting, I don't know. Somebody talked about something emotional here today, a word that I don't remember, because it's this time of year. I can't explain it clearly enough, but I think it's okay. I think it's necessary, of course it's part of our constitution. Yes, it can be changed. We will not hide it, but as long as this is the way it is, and I believe the church is doing good, remarkable things, it is my duty. It may well be that others can accept salvation. No one is denied anything, but I think he who comes to the church. It is not asked when death occurs, who is man or who is human and what religion? I just don't know other religions to tell if it's exactly the same there, but I don't see reason to change this. I'm sure this argument isn't good, but it's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u208	A respectable president. I have to agree with that, I don't think the argument's good. Actually, I didn't hear any logic if I was to say exactly as it is, at least none that I would count as good or valid. It is true that freedom of worship is in Iceland. It's got a bit of a hammer on it. I'm just sure it is. If someone complains of injustice, what if someone is paid much less for the same job than anyone else, and they say to the person: Well, you're at least Not in jail, you may stop. Okay, thanks so much. So I took something for granted that we had religious freedom. I feel that there is no justification or evidence in any way that I have a special privilege for one particular religion, especially when it is the largest, most overwhelming, and most powerful religion. It is the smallest need for some special privileges in such cases. If at any time it would be logical to support one religion more than another, it would be especially if there were some oppressed minority or similar. The State Church is the opposite. The majority of the population is in it, and at least they pay a considerable amount of fees, at least on some property, etc. It really needs the smallest privilege. Besides, I think it might be normal for the state to support a religion, but it needs to be balanced. In terms of salvation, it is quite true that it is a very important example of the church's service, but it can be of the nature of the matter, according to its nature only to those who can apply it, i.e. those who believe in that system of things and believe in what must be exercised in order for salvation to come. An individual like me simply has nothing to do with her because I don't believe what I have to believe in to benefit me. I need to go to other institutions. I'm not complaining, I'm just saying: The Church is getting this special advantage in providing its services beyond what other congregations can do, and that makes me feel unjust. I know this has not been judged against religious freedom, it just isn't enough for me. [[The president calls.]] I think we should have a fair society and a fair system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u209	A respectable president. I totally respect that opinion. A senator's view of this as unfair. I reiterate what I said earlier, and I feel that those who do not believe have exactly the right to do so as do those who believe in a religion. I agree with what. Senator, I'm sure I find freedom of worship. We know that it is not everywhere, so even though it is in Iceland and we may feel that it should probably be everywhere that people can believe in what they want. Therefore, we can be completely happy that we have freedom of worship in Iceland. I'm not gonna say we're in the lead when we get there, but here is freedom of worship. Prerogatives? This may be called a privilege. To me, these privileges, which may be called, are of long history and a great bond with land and nation. The majority of the population is in this congregation, in this facility, and so on. It may be that this too is the right thing to do. A senator said that some people will not be able to approach the National Church or any other congregation because they do not try into it. When someone needs comfort or such, when something is wrong, it is not the church who asks, "What religion are you, or where do you come from? " [[It's not... it's... it's not.]] It's not asking -- probably not, but I know that in the church there is not a question that is extremely important. However, if an institution like this would close its doors to someone needing it, it would be a great deal. Now I think we can possibly approach each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u210	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is make me happy. A senator who gives the church a higher budget than the State Radio. [[Foreground on: No.]] Yes, according to the additional meeting, this amount will be sumed up to about 3.5 billion or so if you take everything to heart. In addition, the National Church receives about 80% of the charges of interest, which are about 2 billion more, and that's when you're well over the amount of money to RUS. I wondered, then, when we are in that place, compared with other congregations where the Church takes 80% of the parishes, and the other 20% go to all the other congregations, and that is what they have to do with voluntary natural donations as well as the church can do. Within the application fees are, in effect, the remuneration of priests working there, but the application fees are not updated according to the pay sheet, but the contract, the additional contract made, which is actually the church's pay contract, is updated according to the pay number. The fee, in turn, is just some request that it can apply to something else and more, and it's an interesting friendship. Hv. A senator mentioned the cost of strengthening the Church of America and that it was difficult to find out what the cost was, but we simply have no idea. It is not even an attempt to guess where and how and why this amount is cost. We have the amount, it's already brought, but how? Why is that, and not someone else's? Then I wondered, " Am I just to believe that it's the right amount, or not, because we don't get a clue how it's related to the renovations, the retails, or the duties for the Constitution or anything like that? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-11-43.u211	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I have to admit that I hadn't figured out these updates and connections mentioned by the senator, and I have to think that there would be some improvement if it was compatible in any way. I agree that all of this is to be as much on tables as possible, how these expenses are and costs, and I don't want to believe that this is deliberately trying to hide it or something like that. I agree with the senator that it would be fine if these things could be clearly distinguished and proved. I'm saying I have no idea, but I'd be surprised if all the things that are being paid for or what the church is doing, if they're sorted down, I'm not sure it's worth it compared to the money that's supposed to run for it. Of course, we pay for certain services ourselves. When we get baptized or get married or something like that, we pay for the priests and the church, funerals, and so on. There's an extra charge, of course, but it's for the activities there is. No doubt you can wonder, if it is possible to do so. A senator is about to go into it, whether there's twice the cost of the trip. I don't realize that, but somehow I don't think the service is overpayed. I don't have anything to do with it. A senator in this exchange.
