ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u1	A respectable president. Last December. I asked you a question to the highest level. Health Ministers are concerned with Iceland's health insurance and personal protection. V.E.G. In mid - January, a minister answered me. 819 and I have every reason to bring that answer to the attention of the United States Congress. I asked a minister what data or databases Iceland's Medical Insurance is using, and the answer to that is a national database. Then I asked who would receive letters in the case of children and who would be addressed to both guardians or only to the child's legal home and then to whom. A minister's answer is based on information from health insurance, but that is, and I ask the Senate to notice, addressed to the person who explains the child's family number, the oldest person in the family according to national records. In other words, the oldest person in the child's home receives a letter. In this way, the person may not exercise custody of a child, so parents may not necessarily receive letters that concern their children. The oldest person in a home may be a foster parent, Grandma, Grandpa, or just someone else. A respectable president. This is completely unacceptable. Then I asked a minister if such a procedure is compatible with a personal protection law, which I cannot see to it. The answer reveals that Persian protection has made comments on the execution of health insurance, and that has been a long time ago. Personal protection has also pointed to solutions, but the conclusion of a minister's reply says, with the permission of a president: The Agency has examined solutions due to the character protection comments, but nothing has been further determined on that subject. The Ministry has made up the comments on Iceland's Health Insurance (U.S.) A respectable president. It must be ignored. The issue I here highlight is one of many problems that the system either creates or does not solve when it comes to the shared custody of parents over their children after divorce. Many are the examples and challenges faced by parents in that situation. For this reason, I have requested that I have a special discussion with the Supreme Court. Secretary of the children's case. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. We cannot allow this example to reveal our approach to a number of families in the country. That's what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u2	Mr. President. Over the past few years, there has been an ever - increasing discussion of the importance of farmers' ability to offer a wide variety of goods. A consumer's taste on meat varies. While some people are perfectly pleased with the random legion of lamb, others want to be able to choose a lamb for a long time, etc. and are even willing to pay a higher price for that product. Although no one claims that the problems of Icelandic sheep growing could be solved simply by making sheep's money easier for slaughtering at home, as if I wanted answers from a minister before Christmas, there is a innovation such as a microsphere part of the solution, especially by the arrival of more tourists. What we face, however, is the hindered rule around slaughter. Since it is complex and complex, it is difficult to get all the rights. The Homework and slaughter laws are complex and have been very burdensome for many slaughterhouses, as was shown in a letter to us senators during the days since farmers in Skavegur. The high cost of reimbursement makes it more difficult to pursue innovation through product development. I think the big slaughterhouse is going to make a mess of itself with such price. But governments also have a responsibility. Work is now being made up of a so - called risk management committee. Qualifications were put in the government's consultations before Christmas. Such a committee aims to provide scientific advice on food management. It kind of tells itself that something is wrong when farmers are allowed to slaughter animals for home use and not allowed to sell meat. Of course, the need to make sure that consumer protection is strong. So I welcome this work and believe it will be important to get them to a better place. In a conversation I had with a minister on this matter, it was said that it was being looked to Germany where national rules allow what has been called a microsphere. I will follow through on the role of the government to provide the streets of Icelandic agriculture so that it can offer a wide range of goods, while caring for wholesome food.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u3	V.E.G. President. Later today, there is a second discussion of a transport program, one of the most important documents in the council. When you look at history, you can see that things have changed, but some things have changed little. During the 1920/1960 years, the network of cohesion, summer roads, and waterways was stressed. Then, as it is called, a road was built out of snow and emphasized the bounds of a fragment. Human sensitivity to this type of work has naturally developed. Since the 1990's, goals and projections have been met. Work is becoming ever more focused and goal - oriented. The aim of the transport Council in preparing a plan is clear and defined by projects. These include easy transportation goals. They view the transport system as a whole, bicycle ride, flying history policy, public transportation, information to tourists, and other transport goals. In fact, the safety targets are over and around us, and the number of accidents we meet is high. Individuals and society have lost too much of it. Strategic transport goals are closely followed. Today, the aims of sustainable transport are probably being developed. It rhymes with government action on climate. The aims of positive urban development are important to all of us, so the plans for a powerful international community are reached. An example of an aim-to-target job is the definition of job application and school areas and the subsidence of air traffic costs. V.E.G. President. As everyone knows, the project is off-limits, but today's plan is presented in a clearer form than before, and is linked to other public programmes. Another factor to consider is that the 2019/2033 transport program is now put in place, and in accordance with an approved financial programme. That's good. As soon as we find ways to work faster and do more, let us stick to professional work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u4	Mr. President. The present government has been extremely active in many activities. Travel policy is being developed for the first time, apart from the discovery that it had arrived in the 2015 Vegan. For the first time in national history, aeroplane policy is being shaped by members of the Department of Transport, three groups, four groups, working. At the same time, the Government Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, states that there will be a policy for Istavia. Thus, there are three different tasks involved in our traveling and flying activities, which have become enormous in our overall environment. In our business area of 2017, tourism was the largest commercial means in the nation as a share of land production. Achieving policies in different areas of life is being developed. Tourism is being won at the Ministry of pro and innovation. The first stage of that work went out in the fall and then the mission is to complete and the goal is to run out in the spring. A travel policy is being carried out at the Department of Transport, and it is expected to run out in spring, and the shape of the trade policy for Istavia is then a major project in the Ministry of Economics. I call to the government that the three Ministry is working together to integrate a policy towards all these factors, so we don't have double design, and there is a common policy with an overall vision in those seminaries. There I believe that these three projects need to work together in one good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u5	President. I'd like to use these two minutes today to review and celebrate a report made by a team on sub-communications and violations of a domestic labour market today just before the 31st January, if I recall correctly. This, as at times would like to be in the rush of the day, has not gone very far, but it is unfortunate that this work is extremely well worked and that it really means a lot. I think that no matter where we stand, all of us can join together for the suggestions offered by the labour market members in this team of colleagues, along with government officials. V.E.G. Society and child minister, Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, appointed the staff and have the report in their hands. It addresses very serious and important issues, such as social security, as well as a regular area of communication between the government and the labour market partners, including the workforce. will be involved in activities related to work and not only working on them but also preventing such activities through highly effective and effective consultations. One of the suggestions taken by the group turns to binding a chain of government responsibilities, which is also a very important matter. Of course, all of this has to do with us, but there is one particular need to consider that here as lawgivers: So it is wondered whether governments have to have legal authority to handle the offense. Then there is forced planning and administrative policy. President. I realize it's only been a few days since the report was released, but we must be able to work it out, I trust it to the highest level. Ministers are doing so, and solidly agree that these important and practical suggestions will be realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u6	A respectable president. Later today, we will discuss the road program for the next year. I heard why. paritaprevir In ancient times, Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, says that her policy had never been clearer than it was today, and she was a full - grown man. It's really amazing, because I don't know any better than not putting extra taxes on the people of the land one more trip, one of the world's most taxing people. It should be taxed to improve the long - term transport system, conditions have been building up. But why? Why do the people of the land need to be taxed on one more trip with the spells that will be weighed down? Because the priorities of the government in terms of public money are, as it were, a 63% decrease in bank tax cost cost cost in 2019 income of about 7 billion dollars. as well as 4.3 billion. reduction of hunting costs, most of which were largely useful in the country. We're talking about 11.3 billion bucks. which will survive in 2019 only because of the two operations of the government. This is a priority for public funds. Normally, it is those who have the weakest position in society and who are falling under the larceny and taxing yokes and insurance insurance on them that are also supposed to have to pay taxes that are out of any rhythm of reality. Things could be done in a completely different way, only by setting priorities for those who need to be, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u7	Mr. President. Sexual violence and harassment, along with sexual violence, are deep and large social ills. Recent examples show this. In spring, the approved changes in general penal law and rape terms were defined as lack of consent. The change was made an important step in providing freedom of sex and the self - determination of individuals' rights. In everyday speech there has been a rule of agreement, i.e. that intercourse or other sexual practices can be punished if there is no clear consent to engaging in sexual activity. A new definition of rape in penal law was important for many things. Among other things, knowing that consent is the main thing in sexual relations hopefully reduces the number of these offenses. Of course, preventing the fractures is most important. However, laws do not live in voids, and the change must be followed by education and prevention. The code of law needs to be alive. Hence, the writer of this journal has proposed a synopsis that assumes that progressive education on gender, sexual freedom, self - determination rights, and the importance of agreement in sexual relations, which includes most of the community's aspects and that will be spent enough money. The proposal assumes that the first three years will be guaranteed at least 150 million. K. for the instruction and weight of the material and its distribution. Your sight will be directed to all levels of school and all institutions of the justice system. Then there will be a special emphasis on strengthening the free partners, the media, and institutions to promote education and special campaigns, and the sea being directed toward the target groups of society, as it is important to support those who contribute to these matters by vital activity and expertise. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I challenge the U.S. Senate to provide this fundamental success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u8	Mr. President. Tourism has become one of the most important sectors in the country and has been driving the economic growth of what we have experienced in recent years. This was certainly a source of great concern when one of the largest airlines in the United States was discovered to be a serious problem. When significant cuts were reported on its network, there were little cause for concern that many sources, especially within their own tourism services. So it was a relief when Istavia published a week ago, expecting that despite this massive cutdown in the network, only a little more than a 2% reduction in foreign tourist arrivals would be made. That forecast is only a week old and did so. estimated that the arrival of foreign tourists during January would be almost unchanged, but this morning, Istavia published her passenger numbers by January and found that the recession is 6%, not 0%, as the weekly forecast of the Society was expected. This, of course, gives us reason to ask: Is there something wrong with Isaiah's passenger forecast? At the same time as predicted a slight change in the arrival of tourists to and from the country, the same estimate was that passengers through the Cheflavor airport, which would be reduced by nearly a fifth. Hence, it has to be said that this forecast seems based on wishful thinking on the society rather than on a realistic estimate of the position of the article. Of course, it is very serious not to be able to rely more fully on data from the government company that has the best picture of developments taking place in the tourism service, on what may be expected there, and has, at the same time, shown limited will to allow other employees to access that information. It is good to talk about the long - term development of tourism, but it is equally important that we know where we are going in the weeks and months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u9	Mr. President. A South American New Year's Report on the United States was published by morning. Among the material is the interview that the Þorlákur Helgason, executive director of the Olweus project for harassment in Iceland, took over Hjalti Tómasson, the patrol officer of the South American union. The above is an interview: Foreigners are also people. There, Hjalti openly says that there are too many people in a job market who are in a bad position and stress that we can handle the rights of the people who come to the country to work. The vast majority of professionals want to have contracts, yet they can be found the opposite, that is, the worst expression of human relations and lack of interest and ignorance within the board is a major concern. Hjalti says, with president's permission: ▪ Mansal is one of the most lucrative crimes on the world scene and also one of the most disgusting forms of profit you can think of. Of course, it is the greed that makes you rich, the greedy person who requires you to put the human race away and to view other people as things or trades and not people you can relate to. Surely a better description of the thought is that it is acceptable to bring another person into bondage to self - interest, whether financial, sexual, or otherwise. Halldór Grönvold, assistant director of ASI, said in an interview on the Ring Road recently that only three man-sales had been charged and one went all the way through the judiciary system; however, it is quite clear that the situation is much more serious than that. President. The situation of this case, which is caused by greed and human contempt, is a disgrace in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to tell you that during the days, I went to a sailor's accident school. I studied the work that happens on the Seabjörg right next to us. I think it would be good for us senators to study what is going on in the community and especially about the safety of sailors. It's amazing to experience what's going on on in this old freighter. The goal of the school is to increase the safety of sailors who meet Icelandic and international standards. It works according to the established CTCW, an international reference. On the Seabjörg board is a perfect facility for academic study and practical teaching, to learn basic basic elements of instant help, marine survival, fire defenses, and security. It was quite amazing to have a share in this with a number of sailors, but all the sailors in Icelandic fishing vessels registered there must have gone through this school. It's remarkable that this is the only school in the whole world where all students get experience of being picked up in a helicopter. Others do not live in schools because of the fact that in most lands military services for helicopters and citizens are not allowed to pass there. What I find truly remarkable is the skill of teachers at this school, the experienced seamen, who have gained and shared in the vast knowledge they have and what they have experienced. Perhaps it is knowledge that most people do not care for but are very welcome by those who attend this school. As a result, every sailor has passed through it, and we can look back many years into a time where no sailor has died at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u11	A respectable president. During the past week, the head of the Industrial Association's Conspiracy said that innovation is a race. In this race, many factors need to fall together, but I would like to draw out two of them in particular. First of all, we need to develop incentives that keep high-tech companies in Iceland and incentives that are leading the operation of international high-tech companies into our country. That's what we do with decommissioned roofs on reimbursement of research and development costs. Second, we must shape innovation policy into close relationships with professional policy, and especially education policy for Iceland. The key to which one must have a detailed workforce for the future. Therefore, I would like to call for ministers of innovation and education to work together to shape employment policy, innovation and education policy to the future for Iceland. You see, we need to build a job in which creative work takes over the resource - based jobs. But why is this running, and why is it so difficult? This is because a part of those who are working at a job will lose their jobs because their jobs become self - efficient. This has already been done by self - efficiency in marine agriculture. It's all happening with experimentation in banking services and it's not unusual, it's okay. But this is going to happen in a lot more industry than we realize, and a lot faster than we realize. How important it is, then, that a targeted policy be developed, with particular re-education of the particular part of the workforce that is involved and that in the near future, the work will be lost because of self - efficiency. So I call for the shape of a joint employment policy, innovation and education policy to the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u12	Mr. President. Kjalarnes'collection of signatures among the inhabitants describes a tremendous disappointment over the efforts of funding for the west-land road of Kjalarnes to be cut into a road program and predicted that there would be an undefined delay in the restoration of the road. As a result of a strong protest, transport authorities are called upon to reevaluate their plans, immediately starting preparations to bridge, separate road policies, and proceed without further delay this year. Earlier today, it was reported that this mistake was corrected and that progress rate will not be disturbed. I'm celebrating it. Mr. President. The path of Kjalarnes is extremely dangerous. It is narrow, monotonous, uninvestigated, and actually handmade, especially by deep rollers that have measured far above the surfaces of security limits. Sadly, accidents and accidents are common in Kjalarnes. The third largest road in the country, Kjalarnes, is the road, yet the only root number that has not been divided. The road has been followed for decades in terms of normal maintenance and the necessary adjustment to larger traffic. Kjalarnes'weather is windy, and each year a wind storm that poses a great danger to road users. In such a situation, it is a key factor to safety. People in general are afraid to drive the road through Kjalarnes and sense it as dangerous and uncertain. Mr. President. The actions of Kjalarnesi on the western road can't stand waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u13	The President wants to report that there is some interference on the time registration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u14	Mr. President. Shortly before Christmas last Christmas, the Allied Council agreed to lend an ohf to state property, Iceland Summit, 1.5 billion loans. This was in order to support the company's financial problems and to enable them to operate. The loan did not meet any conditions for handling the company's financial problems. A political review concluded that several members of the Parliament expressed that it was not something they were trying to lend the company 1.5 billion from a government fund, or extend it to 1.5 billion from a government fund, with no preconceiving how to use that money to improve the company's business. It has now been found that at the beginning of 2018, all employees of Iceland's e-mail were rewarded because they had been doing so well the previous year, as it were, about six months before the company's first loan turned up last year. It has also been observed that the company's manager's salary has increased by 40% over four years, the government's salary at the same time by 65%. Of course, I have to be glad that a loan that the government fund gives the company will put someone in good need. But I have to say, Mr. President, I don't think it's normal. I think this is wrong, and it substantiates what we had in the past before Christmas, that such loans were not prereferable on the basis of what then lay before us. Sadly, the news that is now being received has been found to show that we, who were offended, were doing it right. [[The president calls.]] I feel absolutely necessary at this point that the design of this Ohf company is going to improve its business in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u15	V.E.G. President. In view of my final talk, I have probably had a thought - provoking relationship. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, was about to record the course of events. The legal committee has Iceland's issues. It is important that we distinguish between authority and loan. Then, in review, a proposal came at the end of 2nd. budgets to authorize the secretary of finance and economics to lay down Iceland's resources for ohf. to loans and stocks, additional 5th pars. and 6. The majority then suggested that the warrant be supplied and accepted with the conditions that, if possible, counsellors should inform both sides. The budget and the what. The European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee for the Progress of financial restructuring and implementation of future treatments prior to the implementation of the loans and contributions proposals. Thus the council approved the budget. In addition, the Commission highlighted information on the future role of the company, detailed information on individual activities, and a summary of economic measures and future vision. Hv. A legal committee continued to put the matter into practice. As a result, the chairman of the Committee associated himself with a government accountant who is a confidence worker for the financial management of the state of the State, in accordance with Article 6. Act of a state accountant. It will emphasise the analyses. financial separation, but the business is divided into three main services; the exclusive rights of the public service, the competition of international services, and international competition. The committee wishes even. After a government accountant assesses the separation of the business and how the Society's investments in recent years are identified by these main factors. Second, the request focuses on the future vision of the company in the changed management environment, where the exclusive right will be taken away and the overall services of the state fund. [[The president calls.]] At the first meeting after the New Year's Eve meeting, January 15th, we agreed on a financial committee, the whole committee, formally making the decision to go to this job by a state accountant and expect a report from him in the spring months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u16	President. On June 20, 2018, the U.S. Council agent gave an opinion of how the government's insurance agency had maintained a false interpretation of the social security laws and the EEA rules for conformity to social security systems. The Ministry adopted an agent's opinion on November 29, 2018, confirming that microenergy pensioners living in another EEA country had to live under illegal agricultural restrictions for a decade or even longer. What does it mean, Mr. President, that the state's illegalizing of a large group of micro-organists? The State violated laws to further cut down the vast sums that it pays for those who have disability. It is important to keep it up that now, on February 5, 2019, the money they have rights is still being betrayed. This, then, is the third month deliberately cheating on microorganisms - the third month. And what is the argument? It has been observed that this takes time in a complex calculation. But I've got it confirmed that I'm waiting for a financial warrant, despite the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance has spoken here. And that's where I think we're getting closer to the truth. It's not a legal warrant for paying pensioners according to the law. If this is the real reason, it means to the highest. The secretary of finance is not in the way of handing over the money needed to pay the legal fee. V.E.G. The secretary of finance keeps his arms around the state, and he just does not intend to open it to microbubbles. President. This is a most disturbing way to treat this poorest group of society. I ask that disability pensions, disability pensions, be paid by law - and immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u17	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a proposal for the resolution of a five-year transport programme for the year 2019◯1923 and a proposal for the resolution of transport programmes for the year 2019-52033, from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. The terms of the five-year transport programme for 2019-2023 and the transport programme for 201952033 are provided on the basis of transport legislation, No. 33/2008. As shown in a review of the majority opinion, the committee met a number of visitors. Visitors were unanimously thinking that national roads, maintenance, and new projects would have to be taken care of. A accumulated problem would be great and insist that the speed of implementation be exceeded in the transport program. Iceland has been noted to be crowded, and the road system is large, based on the population population and its structure has always been followed by our neighboring countries. Investment needs are estimated to be a total of 3,350,400 billion. It must also be seen of the number of tourists who are visiting the country each year, but as we know, in recent years the number of visitors has increased dramatically. Business territories have grown, and urban areas are increasing. The majority of these figure that there will be a rapid response to the problems that have been raised in recent years and will be targeted at improving road and transport as rapidly as possible in terms of the practicality, climate targets, equality, and safety issues. It is important to seek ways to speed up the most urgent transport efforts. Economic growth projections were also indicated that there is now a loss on manufacturing factors, and thus there may be an ideal setting for building structures in society. The majority of them are particularly concerned with the fact that there are some suggestions on transport, as well as changes in financing methods related to these are important factors in Iceland's commitment to climate and energy exchange activities. Shorter road routes, better roads, easy driving with lower energy consumption, increasing passenger planes in the country during long or difficult roads, public transportation concentrations, and other improvements in greenhouse gas emissions. It has also been observed that in the coming years the government's income of oil and fuel costs will be reduced due to the changes being made in the national vehicle fleet and the measures taken to improve the traffic of biofuel vehicles. A treatment plan is submitted with full financial support according to the government's approved financial programme. Clearly, a transport program is designed for the market budget, or some 190 billion dollars, of which 160 billion will be used. in maintenance and construction over the next five years, and implementing projects and implementation speed accordingly. It is important to find ways to speed up the project. Along with transportation plans, transport and rural government officials appointed three groups of work at different levels of work. They were designed to discuss the challenges of transportation and to offer solutions. The work groups have been introduced to the committee and have also been discussed with the committee as well as challenges and solutions. In view of the above, the more part contributes to the change in target 5 numbers in section 4.3, in a five-year transport programme, in order to demonstrate clearly that the implementation of new funding initiatives and necessary prime factors in the current year should be achieved with the aim to speed up projects in the programme and create financial space for new projects. A key element, in the opinion of the greater part, is the intention of equally borrowing and collecting road costs in terms of government custody. The road was still responsible for projects in the road system, and they would be part of a transport program. Directs the more part to the Minister to ensure that a specific enterprise will be funded by a specific payment as a minister will be implemented according to the importance of the greater part. The majority of the guests who appeared before the committee used ideas of road and transport payment if this could speed up projects and expenses would be moderate and their purpose clear. The majority also stress that currency will be provided in terms of national equality and the visitors coming into the country will be involved in the construction of the transport system they enjoy during their stay, whether by private cars, rental cars, or by bus, and above the general amount of driving. The changes in transport funding, both roads and flights, provide room to speed up the progress, increase the use potential of transportation, contribute to a much greater amount of transport security, and take positive steps in climate change. Discussion of road charges or special user fees as an adjunct to public traffic taxation in order to attack or speed projects is not new in Iceland. In this regard, we can point to the vast, obvious, transport reforms that occurred in the form of a Hagland tunnel, which provided the means for a curative approach to implementing them at the time. The tunnel has now been fully paid and returned to the State and the model, in this case with the establishment of a special individual society, being established. The same could be said of the basis for the construction of a Válladle March, which also served as a basis for this implementation. The need for a change in taxation or reimbursement has also existed for years. From the beginning to encourage the use of environmentally-friendly energy sources through tax appeals, i.e. The reduction or reduction of transport costs by environmentally-friendly cars and the release of carbon dioxide on both transport costs and automobile costs has yet to be realized in these areas. As cars drive electricity, methadone, hydrogen, or other eco-friendly sources become increasingly larger parts of the car fleet, there is an increased need for new approach to revenues in the general cost of building and operating the road system. According to a climate change programme, energy exchange in roadways is taken as one of the two most important tasks in achieving government goals on noncarbonization in the year 2040. It is therefore aimed to speed up energy transport and to disappear from fossil fuels. No longer will it be avoided to cope with the new reimbursement of earnings; determine the use fees of an older environment will bring less pay for transport and the related problems. The majority of the material perks the need to re-established the overall reimburse general traffic expenditure should be aimed at discontinuing the collection of specific pay when the preparation has been paid. According to the transport and local minister's Constitution, it is planned to submit the transport bill in March 2019. It is thought to follow a policy on the future financing of the road system produced by a staff minister on transport funding. The majority of these feel that great opportunities are involved in ideas of road expenses, but they may increase and speed up transport efforts for the benefit of society. Further implementations are based on the fact that additional funding from road expenses and agreements are soon reached between the state and rural unions for projects in the capital area. The expenditures, including the amount of roads, will be extended beyond the agreed transport programme and in the context of basic ideas on further financial resources provided by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, including in cooperation with rural society. The majority stress that the average amount of tax will be paid and make sure that the amount of road tax will not be higher than that the user will be guaranteed the benefit of a new project, despite expenses. This will take into account the magnitude of the heart rate, i.e. that those who use the roads often receive discounters, as has been the custom, for example, to form in the Hafjörður tunnel but for the rate of monogamous expenditures. Gait should also be electronic and free of discomfort and delay before traffic. Then, on road projects financed by remuneration. The majority of the items stress that the pay will be performed in the following way: First, on three main pillars, i.e. Smokey Way to the Southland, Southland, and West Road Cheflavour Way, on top of the capital area. Remuneration is intended to speed up projects such as planning and preparation allow, and to improve the quality of the stem vessels, while existing programmes assume, using a variable course and a longer 2+2 chapters. In order to start a project, a favorable loan has to be paid per tax. Their deposit will be stopped as soon as the loan is fully paid up. Second, it will be considered in an equation to see whether certain routes of the land that cut distances will be funded by means of mixed funding; in part, by means of transport contributions, and in part by borrowing that will be paid by remuneration. Paybacks will be canceled when loans are paid off. Of course, there are a number of projects that could fall into this category, but we call here the cornerway around the Hornground and Axe Road. Third, according to further implementation, roads can be collected at a tunnel in Iceland, with exceptions where it is decided. A land tunnel payment is intended for the services and management of a tunnel, which is larger than that of the corresponding length of stockway, as well as for a share in new buildings. The budget will be part of a new land tunnel program, which would be part of a transport program with the purpose of no interruption in the construction of a tunnel. The schedule will also specify which tunnels fall under payment and for how long. The proportion of budgetary donations provided by the Member States is presented in a table provided in the opinion. It is not expected that the budget for transport may be reduced, but it is proper to say that if government property is sold, it is important that the scope for transport that is also used to build up, as the need is urgent. We will consider some of the ways in which we can do this. As stated earlier, the majority suggest that the space produced in the transport program for the coming years by financing large projects through road costs, including road costs. used to increase total road and road production. The majority contributes to the adjustment of the material as early as 2019◯2020, and these are listed as projects in all parts of the country. The majority of the data shows that there may be a need to improve traffic counts in these roads, since changing the behavior of tourists may significantly alter traffic weights within a short period of time. This suggests that the extra part is offered to speed up specific projects for two cross-border areas, i.e. Time and time again, the coasts and Langanes built on the northeast corner. According to the approved bill for the budget of 2019, the budget for the overall case group is 11, 535.5 billion. K. and responded to the implementation of transport programmes. There are several projects here, a respectable president, which is important to apply and discuss how we reassign our budget according to the cuts we were facing. It shows that this year's contributions are reduced to the Gufundal Farm project, as they are expiry from the past few years to that, but this will not affect the work done in this chapter. I'd like to mention that this year is a time to separate road policies on the Grindík Road. It was found in the processing of the Committee that because of the government subversive plant, the situation on the Faxa Road of Aquilin is defined as a source. Water crosses the road and blocks construction in the desired area of the population. Marine and road expenses are about 550 million. It is urgent that this assignment be completed as soon as possible, and it was failed. We also place great emphasis on the hurrying of Eagle Road so that projects can begin once organization and design are completed. We assume that the limits generated through the currency process will be even. new to that project. The government approved November 23rd. Proposed from the Backflakes to the development of transport and local government ministers. The proposals are set up in a report by a committee appointed by the minister to discuss the affairs of the community. It strongly suggests the initiation of limited wear on Langanes Beach in 2019. The rest of the claim is that we'll be through Langanes Beach in the next two, three years. For the committee, it was necessary to maintain the road used to play sports. Next, we will discuss transport in the capital area and the report on the construction of transport in the capital area to 2033. There is work going on between the Department of Transport and the Community Association in the capital area for the implementation of these projects, cost evaluations, and priorities. It says that the city line is a key factor in making public transport real options within the capital area. The report defines a city line as a high quality public transport system in a special space. The city line is expected to be in a special space or in a special lane, but this does not impair the building line's capacity of infrastructure, which is important considering the estimated increase in road transport. The increase is considered to be 24% despite changes in travel habits. In the above report, the task force stresses the growth of the development of a network of transport routes in the capital area to improve the priority of transport planning as well as the importance of establishing the founding of Smokeynes Way from the Sunway to the Southnes, and the western coasts from Smokejanes, and from the north along with the Southland roads from the Westland, with special consideration for paying and safe flows of private and heavy traffic. The majority agree with this main point in the report and emphasise that public transportation will be made up rapidly in areas where cheap housing is present or that development is planned in the near future within and outside the capital area. It has been shown that the government has declared itself ready to finance up to 50% of the estimated cost of building an inner city line. The transport programme for 2019-22033 is planned for the urban line, but no funding is assigned, as the work of the project team was not completed in making transport plans at the General Assembly and considering the review of transport plans in the fall of 2019. There is also the agreement between state and rural society in the capital area on funding, cooperation, and goals. The majority of projects are considered very important to start building up as early as possible, with key projects in the government's objective to promote public transport as well as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, suggests that the more part contributes to the change in a five-year transport programme designed to ensure that once this year's development is taking place in the construction of public transport in close cooperation between a state and all rural society in the area. The report suggests the task force to look for new ways to raise funding for the implementation of public transport reforms. The majority stress that countries and rural communities come to their conclusions in this work and the result of a combination of transport and rural government bill on transport reimbursement. The building of the city line takes time and is first fully established in 2021 according to the report of the task force and as part of the transition. This adds to the fact that people live in the neighboring communities of the capital area and go to work or school for the city. In view of this, the greater part places special emphasis on the connection between the vehicle system and the city line in the public transport of the country, land and air. In force, there is a contract with the local community in the capital area on the construction and operation of public transport and targeted support measures for a 10-year trial project. The contract stipulates the continuation of major roads in the capital area, corresponding to the year 2022. In view of the fact that this is now being suggested to recommence extensive roads in the capital area, it is clear that the agreement needs to be revised. The report on bicycle riding points out that their share in tourism has increased very much, from 4% to 6%, according to a 2014 survey. The emphasis is on building bicycle paths. The capital area is especially viewed there, but we also deal with the need for bike paths in the region. It also discusses public transport outside the capital area and the development there have been, but last year the national body mentioned treaties with the Roads and the State. They are working on their solution, have been assured the public transport operation out this year, and expected that next year, a new agreement will be valid, with the funding of the public transport system established. The majority of them believe that public transport is important in all parts of the country, as it is important for the job and study conditions within the country, and that it is a practical option for citizens and tourists. It was explained to the committee's meeting of the importance of national flights to Northern, Eastern, and Western countries. A greater proportion of them are concerned with the aim of a transport program that allows citizens of the country to reach the capital area in about 3.5 hours of integrated travel time, driving, ferrying, and/or flying. The committee found that the consultation of roadmaking with rural areas was not sufficient and close enough. A greater responsibility is that the road structure has a close relationship with rural areas across the country. It is always the inhabitants of the region that have the highest knowledge of the local region and that uses transport most effectively. The majority of the co-ordinates of the importance of close consultation between the Vegas and the rural communities, and they consider it desirable to think that the road would be fixed for consultation with rural and national groups to make it more targeted and useful. A respectable president. In the issue of Traffic Security, the importance of managing traffic security is critical to the greater part. Road accidents are way too high in Iceland, compared with the countries we compare with. In 2017, 13 people died in traffic accidents, and 189 were seriously injured, with 15 fatal accidents. In 2016 18 people died, and 215 people were seriously injured. Thus, every year the number of injured and killed by traffic accidents is a major concern. It is estimated that the annual social cost of these accidents accounts for a total of 40 to 6 billion dollars. The greater part of it feels right to be particularly concerned about how children and young people do things. There was a need for further prevention and education for those using the road system, especially for youths and even for foreign tourists. Road marks would have to be improved, they would be inadequate in most parts of the world. Winter service is an important part of public and employment security. It is important to promote winter service. The flights within and outside the country and in the airport will be reviewed and the suggestions will be followed by a team working on airport matters. In short, it suggests that the international airports at Eggls, Akureyri, and Reykjavík will be placed under the tradesmidel Istavia, and the funds it releases will be used to build up other airports in the country. In order to live up to it and this integration in flying management, a special service fee, called the Precautional Airport fee, will be put in place a few years ago, and will be used to build up this important service on a growing flight trip. It was noted to the committee that the situation in this country is of great concern. You can't give a discount here, a respectable president. The majority of the rights are due to the lack of time to start working on the extra flight security and the growth of the alternate flights. It also discusses the results of the same group, which will be further explained in the following article, on the subsidies of fares in domestic flights or on the so - called Scottish route. That states in the government covenant, including the government. to work on making domestic flights more practical for the inhabitants of the country. The committee discussed the environmental impact of increasing the number of passengers in internal flights. In the results of socio-economic analysis of national flights from 2013/2014, the climatic benefits of international road transport were found to be considerable. So we agree that the group of workers will be suggested to develop a so - called Scottish route that enables the inhabitants of the country, those who have more to go, to use public flight as a practical means of public transportation. It also includes the importance of adding to the funding of waterfronts, reviewing them, and giving some examples. We received further information on the needs of land ports and the importance of hurrying and reviewing priorities in preparing the next transport program. The majority of these focus particularly on environmental and economic conversions will be accelerated and the majority of the action in the climate management programme will show that one of the measures is energy exchange in processes which ensure that processes are properly completed. The construction of a Western island vector is far along, but it will go for electricity. Thus, the additional cost is about 800 million. As a result, certain changes had to be made in a transportation program. It discusses organizational matters and assessments of the environmental impact of action. It points out the need to proceed rapidly and effectively with the main and shared activities of rural society. It would be unacceptable to insist on implementing an agreed transport programme, even starting to prepare on the side of the road type, to be delayed by the development of rural planning. It also points to the importance of working to review the overall assessments of environmental impacts and activities currently being carried out by the Environment and Resource Ministry in an effort to increase the transparency and effectiveness of all assessments in these products. There have been major disagreements, especially on the part of rural and executives, as to how involved this system can be. It also discusses research, development, and environment that are involved in a specific chapter of the Association. It is noted that we have the growing traffic of large ships around the north and in Icelandic economic law. It is a task that is very important to us to consider in the near future. The restraint that appeared to us, I went over it earlier, 535.5 million, and we made arrangements for it. We guess that if things come forward that look, i.e. that there will be a follow-up of legislation on the spring, shifting to the exporting of transport projects, a re-evaluation of transport plans on autumn days with the aim of compliating it with the scope of a more intensive transport project within the capital area and on the basis of it. This follows a modification proposal from the majority of the Committee, which has several factors and is too long to pass through them for a joint. Then there's a motion I'd like to make with the spell. 880, about a five - year transport program, which developed over the conflict and perhaps a certain misunderstanding over implementation in the area of the capital and up in Kjalarnesi. In other words, they take up the road through Skarhól and the ocean road up in Mosfellsville and then on Kjalarnesi, where we make our money. After a meeting with the road yesterday, there was a new proposal that might make a good deal of peace. A respectable president. It is a long committee opinion, it has been an enormous task on the scene of the committee. During the course of this council, the Commission worked almost exclusively on a transport program, and this may not be unusual. It's a group of paintings all over the country that seems to be theirs. If there is a reality here, it is quite clear that we are taking a bigger step in the growth of the transport system than there have ever been in Iceland, that I believe I can claim. Once the process is taken into consideration, the budget for new projects will almost double over the year. Of course, this is suggested primarily because of the importance of our living in a safe and secure transport system. The accidents are not before them, a respectable president, and all of us are human and human mistakes will not be avoided, either in this matter or in other matters. The road system must be equipped to meet these human mistakes. That's not the way it is today, so it's way too high the proportion of serious accidents in our road system. Of course, it is controversial to start reimbursement on these grounds, but it is important to look to the ways in which we should go and how to finance it. The fact is that the number of transport contributions has increased substantially in recent years, beginning 2016, 2017, and 2018, and now in a national financial program for 2019◯022, was increased by the next three years by 5.5 billion to transport. Despite this, a respected president, however, the disappointment is intense and is called for even faster work. It is no coincidence that in all the countries we compare with us, humans have chosen to go on such a road - paying way to take a major step in improving the road system. There are obvious benefits to her and even her. Of course, in our case the high traffic of foreign tourists on the roads of the country will help to ease the effort and speed up with us in this vital issue. It is at the same time environmental, security, and interest issues in terms of shortening travel time and paying for traffic. After all, the raisin in the hot dog end is that we drive in a safe environment, drive on roads that meet the most demand. Following this course enables us to make the steps bigger and better. When I talk about better, I mean that instead, because we're living under a limited budget, having 1+2 solutions and a ringhole, we could finish it right away and then get ahead of ourselves for years, and it doesn't have to come back on the surface to further the transport system until years have passed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u18	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for reviewing more of the Environment and Transport Committee. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. The disappointment is great. A accumulated problem is all light, the need for investment in total 350 billion, and the situation is predetermined by government political decisions that have made the decision to completely neglect the part of the transport system. It speaks of the full - time design, but I'd kind of like to think that it is, in fact, a failure because it is not the necessary action to take. That's why I want to ask you why. Senator: Is the situation in which our transport system is starving, not a judgment against governments and former governments, because of the way they have handled matters? Second, count him. Don't you think it's irresponsible for a majority of the environment and transport committees not to propose necessary improvements to ensure the safety of road users? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u19	A respectable president. The majority are responding to the extra security of road users. We have suggestions to strengthen the transportation system and to ensure the safety of road users. Has this factor been completely neglected? Well, it was now a circuit minister. A senator who put these ideas into practice in 2007 and in 2007,2008. It seemed then that this was the way to take big steps. Yet, transportation had never been put as much as there was in those years. The priorities of the government have been demonstrated in these matters today. We're raising a lot of money. There was a lot of discussion about the budget, and a change in budget was made by my share in bringing in the budget for this year. I don't remember seeing one suggestion for transportation in my section.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u20	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator has not taken the time to answer questions directly addressed to him. Then answer the following questions. It's about roads, tunnels, bridges. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator asking him to give a clear answer: Is there a greater intention of paying for all tunnels in Iceland, whether they are ready or not to be done in the future? So, we're talking about Halfground tunnel, West Coast tunnel, Mullhole, Bolungarvík? We heard how the mayors both in Bolungarvík, and the Far Away spoke yesterday, they did not consider taking a bribe in the tunnels that are there. It is said to stop paying in the end, and it is now clear that the Half - a - roof tunnel is paid up, yet it is still in the water to repay expenses. How does talking about the exchange of energy and therefore the necessary payment play out, and when some means have been set aside? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be good to know the answers to the questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u21	Of course, it's a big step, a respectable president, in an environment where traffic consumes less fuel and makes it faster. There, of course, is the additive effect. Is there a basis for paying expenses in all tunnels, bridges, and roads? I'd almost like to ask that question, a respectable president, whether it is. A senator was sleeping at the meetings of the committee to which he is involved. [[No, it wasn't. Not a senator.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u22	Reply...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u23	There's a lot of discussions there, a respectable president, and much of it has been observed repeatedly by the Ministry's representatives and the people we've been discussing with us, that this is not possible, and there's some need to be fair. The aims of the greater part of the proposal to rate more countries in the country are to settle these laws on the entire population. This is going to be part of every citizen of the country. It has been named in a tunnel, even on individual projects, as I did here, that will be cohesive from transport planning and taxation. [[Up front.]] This knows why. A senator, a respectable president, is here trying to dust their eyes and ears of those listening to us. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to begin my case with thanks to you. A pilot for his careful review. I'd like to let me ask you if he can shed light on the conversions that took place on the projects of Kjalarnes. There were reports of a decision to move money with a predictable delay in the development of Kjalarnes. There have been reports that the past, as it is called, has been removed. In the meantime, however, the people of Kjalarnes who started a collection of signatures are a source of great concern. The city's building council had already concluded the matter and no doubt more. I guess people in the Skaganans didn't like it. Mr. President. I think it would be useful if it were. An authority might shed light on this sequence of events.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u25	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity to give a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, who is under the council earlier, agrees with him on the situation in this section of Kjalarnesi and the importance of responding. Yes, the majority of the Committee had been informed that the contracts were like this, and the design status of Kjalarnes would be in such a way that despite the presence of the funding, these projects could not be carried out sooner than expected. After a meeting with the Road Building yesterday, it was informed that men could start an important part of this project sooner than the information we had previously indicated. So they were working to solve the adjustment proposals I presented earlier that assume that the first stage of this work will be held out in the latter part of this year. That, in turn, involves the plan, which, of course, will be able to take on very rapid action when that matter is resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A foreman for the answer. He certainly shed light on these developments, and I want to use this opportunity and thank him for his share in setting this issue straight. That certainly is a great deal of interest for so many. The people in Kallarnesi have long taken great advantage of this matter, as well as reports of mass epidemic meetings in the Skaganans and elsewhere. Thank you. An executive for refer to my speech as part of the meeting program. This is the natural third largest road in the country. It's highway 1 and it's urgent that there be some improvements that are truly necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u27	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. Senator. I'd also like to point that out in a discussion on this important road, and that is true of many other factors that will result from the changes planned, the ideas of the greater part go on. The export of the road model on this section today is working as part of it will be 1+2 road and ringorg instead of the miscreant intersections. Our ideas in the greater part of the committee program, and we've discussed them with the Vega and the Department of Transport, are about to become the roadway that this way is designed to produce, if this opportunity is used to complete it many years into the future. This means that the road will be doubled all the way along with the different corners of the road, as appropriate. Of course, there is an enormous stage for all who go on this road regularly and irregularly that big steps can be taken as such. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u28	A respectable president. The largest part of the committee's list shows that a greater proportion of the guests who came before the committee have responded well to ideas of road payment. I would like to disagree with that understanding. The majority of the guests that came before the committee agreed to perform these procedures. If necessary, if it were the only option, it would be that way. But there are other options. I'd like to ask you what. An authority on the claim that equality is being maintained between the people of the land, i.e. that he explains a little more clearly how he concludes that there is some way in which he is being equal by setting a gate around the capital area. Finally, in the first part, it refers to terms of social spending as there is no new issue or special user fees. Then I'll refer to it as a matter of course. In 2011, an authority gave special discussions that were referred to the then minister of Algmund, son of Jónasson, in which he admitted in an interview that there was a double taxation. [[The president calls.]] We should not go to any extra charge on homes in our country, on the use of homes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it true that this was a double taxation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u29	The president would like to remind the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u30	A respectable president. We, in the greater part, stand for this committee, that much more of the people who came before the committee were in favor of taking a roadway if it might be to speed up transport activities. That is correct, perhaps there were no other solutions to the table, and they are so hard to find. Yet, it has been suggested by members of the Independence Party that some of the government's property could be sold to build up in transport. We believe this is such an urgent matter that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. If we were looking at this in any other context, we would compare this accident cost to a public defense situation. So we are considered to be. At this meeting in January, representatives of all parts of the country, rural society, were generally well addressed to these extracurricular ideas that are involved in the implementation, which will be made up of the Council of Transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u31	A respectable president. The doubt was far beyond the opinion of the committee, I'd like to state. I'd like to name it as some other idea. In the past, the head of the committee opinion spoke of a bond tender about the exact same projects. I also wanted to ask a storyteller about them from 800 million to 1.5 billion dollars that go to the dropout of airplanes. In fact, how much would it take to build up for just the service that is said to be necessary to fly in the country? That 800 million. K. This year, it is estimated to be quite rapid for a very good service extension. Finally, I'd like to hear it. An authority is referring only to all the narratives that were received through a transport program and what can be done to deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u32	A respectable president. We can disagree on that, me and him. A senator - and there is nothing unknown here at the council to disagree on the matter of interpretation - that the question was greater. In my opinion, what stood out in all that discussion, and can I speak there on behalf of the greater part, the general opinion of how important it was to take the road. If there were no other solution but to do so in this way, it would be acceptable to do so, even if a person was certainly waiting for the move: " How much does this cost? ' What's the speed of progress? What does this mean for me? A respectable president. Yeah, I've been lying over these things for a long time, and I've been talking about them. That is quite clear to me, and it was no accident when I started working at the Department of Transport in 2017, where we'd have to go if we were to achieve the results the nation calls for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We must respond to that call.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u33	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Jón Gunnarsson's son for an excellent review of the greater portion's opinion. I have two things that I would like to begin with today's discussion and ask why. A senator about. Both are related to the charges. There has been a small talk about the traffic of tourists in the tourism service, that tourists carry a large part of these roads. It's not ready. Today, people associated with tourism have responded and have developed their views on these matters. In view of certain difficulties we've been dealing with in the past few years, I've given the parking lot at the Field and other places where we haven't been able to charge rental cars, i.e. I'd like to have tourists pay in their part of the cost, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator: Does he not believe that it is important that we really get rid of these matters, that what we are going to do is exactly taken care of? [[The president calls.]] The amount of money paid by tourism is reported to be high to 40%. Must we not have made sure? And I would like to ask him: " What is the point? A senator's knowledge of matters: Is the cost paid by tourism rather than the mass - price of tourism? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u34	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u35	A respectable president. It is clear that this will be an additional fee for all who pass through, whether for tourists or for the people of the country. The other side of the coin can be rolled up. This can be viewed as an cost to the individual, but the other side of the coin can then be viewed as easy traffic, reduced fuel spending, environmental traffic, and safer roads. When all of this is put together in the balances, I have no doubt what the benefits will be and where they will be placed before the Icelandic people, to the Icelandic home, and to the state's wealth. It's very important, like what's happened. A senator mentioned, making it available with a good cooperation with the travel agency, to make a list of how collects on rental cars will be done. It went very well at a Halfland tunnel where there was a partnership between the Spalar and the rental companies. The views of the traveling service quoted may help me to come to a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u36	I thank you for the answer and point out that in this context it is not necessarily a good idea to refer to the Hapheve tunnel as an example because there are ideas of any other kind of currency or other means of currency. I'd like a later answer to cross to the city line, because of the present, and in the opinion of the greater part, that specific initiatives in the capital area are part of the urban structure. That is what we need to keep in mind. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Is it, then, that this building project, funded by charges, will be the contribution of the State on urban lines?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u37	A respectable president. In this context, I would like to quote the criteria between the transportation department and the local community in the capital area. As noted in the Committee Department, a majority of the committees stress that the effect of the project is being made on the basis of payoffs on the main routes in and out of the city will be within the capital area. We'll talk about the route from the Smokey Way right into Holta Road. This means that there is a misappreciative interface between the Bedour Road and the spoils from St. Hallway to the Holt Road and, in fact, up in the Breiðholti as well. We feel that it is normal because this importance of transportation is part of the city's main route of the Smokey Way. To this end, I feel that if men are going to do them on the basis of the currency in the capital area, they will expect the disposal of the city line in connection with it or to increase public transport as we improve the general transport of other vehicles, cycle and walking, in the same area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u38	A respectable president. I hereby recommend my share of the Environment and Transport Committee for a proposal for the resolution of a five- and fifteen-year transport programme, between 2019-2023 and 2019,2033. Under the committee's opinion, we'll write, plus what we're saying here, OK? paritaprevir The restoration of Hanna Katrin Friðrksson And that's when it hit me. paritaprevir And the Pirata Bjöln Levi son of Gunnar, an officer of the Committee, agreed with the opinion. A smaller proportion of the environment and transport committees strongly criticize the government for neglecting the transport systems of the country during a time of high production for tourism through an unprecedented increase in tourism and a significant increase in pressures across the interior. Criticized by the government's decision - making, political decision - making process, it is completely neglected to take care of these structures in the up - to - date period after it was able to save a government fund from bankruptcy. As a reminder of the voices of all the delegates who met the committee in the management of transport programmes, a significant effort was needed in international roads. A collection of transport problems in Iceland is high, and the safety of road users is not threatened by the new development and repair of its transport workers. Investment needs remain uninvolved, thus taking the smaller part under the view that the fastest possible rate of action is urgent, both in light of years of neglect as well as the rise in the number of tourists on the roads. The minority considers that the early and abrupt discussion of the majority of the charges on road charges has prevented professional work at the transport programme until the end of the five and fifteen years. The sudden ideas of the greater part changed the work that the committee was doing and submitted to the position of national and rural organisations on action and priorities in the areas. The work being done for two months seems to have been in the position of the majority of the sector as shown in the opinion of a greater part of the environment and transport committee. The smaller part is sad that the guests spoke clearly about the projects that must be carried out, either by moving them back or by getting on schedule. The government's work programme is subject to the implementation of road taxes and road taxes, so the change of policy with all the prematures that the majority of them made suddenly at the end of a transport program was accompanied by reassigning projects and making decisions about the possible funding in the form of roads. The majority of the concept was unexplored, whether for the general road taxes, due to transport energy exchange or road costs due to individual projects. Counting the smaller part of the work to be well thought-in, including research into the social effects of such taxation on the inhabitants of the country, as well as on the balance of the population. The smaller part, however, is expressed with satisfaction that the majority have since since since recently changing the transport program because of a new financing process, while describing surprise over the scope of this debate's being made to the leading party, ends with government future work to be expected at the council at some point during the next year. Even years. The minority considers it important that new projects and other priorities be financed from the state's budget, as this is essential for security reasons. The smaller portion does not qualify to wait for the conclusion of the ideas on the pressures of new road taxes and road costs, but it is unlikely to end in the near future if it is to be based on professional research and careful work. The smaller part also realizes that the funds produced by such collections are not of the order that it cannot be financed in any other way, such as by the pressures of resource costs, increase in hunting costs, coming and/or leaving fees on tourists, less Kingdom funds, or simply by taking into account the national benefits of the work to which it should be done. The improvement, according to provisional figures, will pay up the project in less than a decade, while the spending will be expected to pay up the project in two decades. Thus, the people who pay their dues would pay more taxes after the construction had paid themselves. The minority thus feels strongly that the government is being firmly established in the development of transport workers in the country. It is estimated that the number of road accidents is attributed to insufficient roads, rural areas, and urban areas, resulting in an estimated 50 billion dollars. every year. Examples show that the construction and maintenance of transport workers greatly reduce traffic accidents. So it will quickly pay to put money on these projects and thus save substantial financial resources because of traffic accidents. So the smaller section feels that it is not necessary to take this much taxation along with transport efforts because improvements and innovations will pay for much less time than the stress of roadways. By doubleing roads, reduction of single bridges in busy areas, as well as by reducing the traffic rate of private cars in urban areas with increasing public transportation, accidents will decrease significantly by reducing the community's costs of road accidents. The priorities of the government's transport program do not reflect its support for the need to speed up transport activities. The work involved is socially costly because of accidents, but instead of setting priorities for traffic security, the more part is guaranteed only by the pressures of roadways. It will only be seen that the government is there on purpose to place security measures back in a transport program in order to speed them up by road and road fare. The financing problem of these projects is therefore entirely prepared at home. The smaller parts support the proposals of the greater number of priorities displayed in the Grand Prixs of Vega funded by payment and various road roads, of new projects and the hurry to specific projects on the land, because they came from the Road Building, i.e. about possible implementation and the possible hurry-up. The minority, however, does not agree with the need to collect roads in order to finance them. Illustrating changes in transport plans aimed at ensuring that these urgent projects will be undertaken as soon as possible and will be fully funded from the state's funds. The smaller portion also feels that it is necessary to contribute immediately to Eaglenes Road funding that the government is still planning to postpone. Based on the existing transport programmes, Eaglenes Road implementation is not to begin until the second period of the programme. In addition, the majority have emphasized that these projects will be completely linked to the collection of roads. So that no tax will be paid, if indicated, at the end of the majority house. The new fire - defense program of the Fire Department of the capital area left no doubt as to the need for Eaglenes Road to be laid, for only 26% of the people in Kopavogs now felt that they were living in an acceptable distance at the fire station. The action on Eaglenes Road is therefore a key safety element that will be put at the top of the priorities. They cannot wait for future pressures. The minority emphasizes that these projects are to be rushed and financed from the state's funds so that national security is guaranteed. So, in line, the smaller portion contributes to changing transport plans to five and fifteen years of age. The minority feels that there will be a future when it comes to solutions. It is a matter of public transportation, for it handles many of the community's activities, such as the economic conditions, habitats, traffic weight, security, and most important aspects of the climate that are one of the largest and most important projects of all governments. The minority is a wonder of the failure of the government in building public transport of the land, in the capital areas as well as in the region. Visitors to the committee monotonously declared that public transportation throughout the country was in an upset state, since all the societies in the country had canceled their agreement with the State on public transportation. Have they now made a preliminary agreement for one year, out of 2019, while trying to find this category. However, no evidence can be seen in the opinion of the greater part that there is any interest or policy in the case of public transportation in action or vision. In 2019 C.E., however, there seems to be no policy on the necessary structure to take place. No additional funds are intended for public transport throughout the country on a five- and fifteen-year strategy to be agreed on, but the importance of public transport in all parts of the country is being discussed in general. It is said that the climate action programme will be considered, but there are no ideas nor any future visions on this part. The minority feels that the conditions in today's transport are urgent. The expansion of public transport across the country is going to be dramatic; the capital area; the neighboring countryside, which is close to the capital area, the service, the education, and all over the country. So suggest that in the year 2019, work will be started to prepare to subsidize public transportation to those who daily travel between rural partners to and from work and school as well as to those who need necessary health care in the area. Then the smaller item suggests that there will be immediate work to develop the modern system of public transport in such a way that the service will be improved so that the use of this process will be a real choice in the daily lives of the people of the country. It also suggests that governments contribute more money to public transport growth within the capital area so that rural areas in the capital area and neighboring communities can greatly increase the service and encourage public use during this journey. The memory of the item stresses that the funds that will be put on this initiative will not be reduced from other necessary activities in the region, as previously agreed in a national and rural agreement in the capital area for the construction and operation of public transport and targeted support measures, but the contract goes to 2022. The minority feels that there is no need to be carried out in the transport system of the capital area, so there is a great need to respond without delay. During the past decade, there has been a considerable increase in the traffic and transportation of the capital area. The minority expressed concern over the lack of interest in the greater part of the public transport project presented in the capital area, i.e. ... inthecontinentalline. Civil line is the cooperation project of every member of the country in the capital area, which across state political circles have agreed on this necessary task. If not started in this massive effort, it is clear that the transport system of the region will not be able to handle a number of private vehicles on the road nor will the Icelandic government ever approach the goal they have committed to pursue climate policy. There's been no progress in driving private cars between 40% and 2030, which is 11 years from now, Mr. President. In the next 11 years, the traffic here in the capital area will increase by 40%. This will lead to more traffic accidents, further traffic accidents, and more carbon dioxide emissions. Thus, the proclamation of the government's high - speed press on climate levels contradicts the lack of interest that exists in the actual way of government building a city line. Because while the government signed a declaration of will, it must be said that the decision to set only 800 million is to be made. K. a dose will be sufficient in the next 15 years. There is no discussion of further funding in the opinion of the greater part, nor of the fact that the agreement between state and rural society indicates that the State pays half the cost to the line. The majority estimate that specific projects in the program are actually part of the building of a city line and a developer in the capital area. They can be rushed by means of road legal means. The memory part makes serious comments to what you can read about this, i.e. that projects to the greater extent assume that the capital of the capital area itself can be funded by paying road fees as part of the State's contribution to this necessary task. So the government is not going to pay it. It's in the local public to pay. The Kingdom will view it as its contribution. Based on government data, 16.3 billion dollars are expected. for total expenses during the first period, 15.4 billion dollars. in the second period and in the third, 9.9 billion. The smaller portion supports a greater portion of 300 million. K. a donation in 2019 C.E., suggesting that from 2020/2233 will be the annual contribution of the State to the project of 2 billion dollars. At that time, the smaller portion contributes to the change in transport programme 2019-2333 so that the necessary costs will be expected during the second and third periods of transport planning. In a transport report to the EU to 2033, a team of projects stresses the priority of transport development in the capital sector. It was stated in the agreed declaration of state and rural society since the last fall that, based on the report, proposals would be made to change the transport programme. So the smaller section suggests that they will be listened and that the work of setting up projects in order to build up a city line will immediately be done. Only on the idea of flying. The minority stresses that the time leading up to the development of a new and reevaluated transport strategy that has been announced the next fall will be used to get back on the motion of a transport and rural management team to achieve economic efficiency and lower airport costs. In particular, the lesser part insists that these suggestions will remain in relation to improvements in public transport across the country. Because flight is public transportation. The emphasis on climate needs to be prominent in this work. It is unacceptable whether the commitments of Iceland on an international level or the responsibility of the European government for future generations are considered unacceptable. As noted earlier, my share of what is here and why was this committee included. paritaprevir Rebuild Hanna Katrin Friðrksson, and support the audience of Porta on the committee, why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has thought of this. Mr. President. I'd like to go on to some of the things I think it's important to draw attention to. First of all, I notice that the change in the development of more parts of the environment and transport committee is not taking at all, in any way, the loud criticism given to the Commission from all national angles. Seems that the majority will justify it by reevaluating a different transport plan, perhaps in the fall or in the next winter. Here it must be noted that at the same time as there is a fear - inspiring situation in all roads, of the insecurity experienced by road users, the crisis, whether it is an acceptable method of action. It is clear that we must take the necessary emergency measures because of the political decision of governments and the previous governments to starve this system, not securing our infrastructure. That's what everyone agrees with. This happens at the same time as prosperity abounds in the land, and officials boast of it. The situation is not one thing. We're talking about many parts of the country as monotonous bridges, which are extremely dangerous. We are talking about the lack of traffic weights. Roads are also inadequate in terms of the need for two-weighted roads, so that traffic, as much as it is, is going smoothly in both directions. Roads are inadequate because the pressure is not good enough for road transport. Roads are also unsatisfactory because they are not even fenced all over the country, and they are still whole settlements. There the school cars go dancing with schoolchildren inside the table. Not only is it so, Mr. President, but our transportation system is inadequate because there is a crisis on the slopes and mountain roads. Therefore, it is necessary to continue the road structure. This is a dangerous situation. This is the political decision of the government, to starve the system in order to start a new tax on the public rather than to use the taxes we already pay to ensure these insides. It's expensive to starve in like this. That is a basic knowledge; if we don't think about the wood, we don't take care of what we have together, it will cost us much more in the future. We also look at global warming; we see extreme climate change. It's the one-car that's the most contaminated. If we don't do anything, we're not going to go to a great offense for the construction of public transport across the country, we're not going to live up to our commitments in climate. It will also cost us considerable money. We can't stand here today and always throw the account into the future, in future generations. It is time for each government to be responsible for the present and for the future. Because the climate is not our personal concern. It's all over the world. Public transportation is also necessary to facilitate the public route to urban areas. There, too, much more of the items return rich. But the majority do not return easy when it comes to the ideas of road taxes and road charges. There's plenty to take, and it looks like it's got enough ideas. Vega tax to replace fuel costs and oil costs, road tax from energy exchange. How is it, then, that those who drive on fuel drive and oil drive pay both; road taxes for miles and oil fees? Here goes a little bit. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. He is in the greater part of it, so there's no doubt a double tax recovery there. But roadtools? The gjarna is referred to as the magnificent work of the Whale Land tunnel. But at my meeting with the inhabitants of Ak Aranei and the surrounding region, it was said that they felt that they had already paid the Halfground tunnel and that they would not pay them back. Or pay back in the Halfground tunnel to pay other fees, as it now seems to be an idea because this is a time for equality. Yesterday's media reported that the mayor of the Far East and the mayor of Bolungarvík strongly objected that the tunnel has arrived. I think the other thing and the government need to start being a little honest about this discussion. It was considered in the Committee, and the idea of paying for all tunnels in Iceland, whether they had arrived or not, was avoided. The idea was also wooded to set the prenup for all tunnels, not Boyholes, Mulla tunnels, and Hinder Straits. But that they might lay the course on Bolungarvík, the Vestfjords, and the Half - land tunnel. Where's the equal, better things? Where is the equal, dear government? There seems to be no link between the possibility of a different course or not. The inhabitants of Bolungarvík can certainly leave Bolungarvík if they choose not to drive through the tunnel. But then there is also the need to ensure such public transportation from the harbor of Bolungarvík. Will the government do that? I don't think it's in the picture. Ready or Not Roads? Of course, the charges will be dropped when the roads are ready. What, then, are we talking about the ways that have already come? What, then, are we talking about the tunnels that have already arrived? Falling down, when? This is a discussion that the major part will just have to admit that it's completely unsatisfactory. When you come here after a presentation on the majority opinion, you just turn out an empty joke instead of answering the simple questions of the senators who surface here. There are other privileges that could be a prerequisite, but then we are talking about a project that has a different route. Name, for example. Swimming runway. It may be a good idea to hit Daffy Way because you can go another way. But this is not to go if you are going to make it out of the capital area to Cheflavík, Alfus, or Westland. There is no other way. They also need to speak aloud of the ideas heard at the Committee and are in the transport Department's report on the pressures of road spending to set the road charges at the Fitsar to the Gravitors, at the Gringagros, on the entrance to the capital area and out and south and all over. When the chairman of that committee, concerning the pressures of roads, was asked, " Are we just talking about charges in three places around the city or on many occasions? ' he replied that there was a number of ways in which he was talking about charges. He also answered that there are two types of taxes. He also said that there would never be a payment, and it would be used to finance something else. If he thought it was a bad idea. Sadly, though, this is what we watch. It seems pretty clean, depending on which government representative is going to interview for that, and that time. In the smaller parts, we suggest that the necessary activities that have been proposed will be carried out. As the road has said, we must go in order to ensure the safety of road users. We cannot wait for years to take such action. That's not possible. How are we going to finance this? There are many ways to do so. We can make better use of the expenses already paid. This year 32 billion are now planned to be used, 28 billion were in the way, and 45 billion incomes were made by automobiles. That's 62%. Can we make a decision together to spend this money just for some year? Can we agree not to reduce the cost of hunting by $3 billion a year? Is there a 7 billion-a-year decrease in bank tax? Can we agree on raising the carbon bill or taking out a wealth tax in order to build up our own wood? That's what we're suggesting. Our traffic accidents cost us a lot of money. It costs us 40 to 60 billion a year. By going to this structure quickly and well, that coin will be saved. I urge senators to study the minority opinion well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's speech requires a lot of questions. I'm gonna try to limit myself to a few. What I considered positive about in my five - year plan was that it was a trust fund and built on a very solid basis for financial planning and economic policy. I spoke yesterday with one of the supporters of the minority opinion, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, a member of Piratha's council. I was surprised to see the minority in which about 57 billion are put out of the window and completely undefined how they should exist and a transport program is totally inexplicable. Similarly, I agree with the reason. A senator that governments for a long time have placed too little money on transportation, especially governments apart. A member of Congress, the Conspiracy, was in 20103/42013, with a single cutback. I don't remember the United States in recent years developing ideas for special transport initiatives. [[The president calls.]] I don't remember, but what. A senator would correct me if I did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation is eager to hear the words, for no question was addressed to me. I can't say that it's a positive thing that the starving process of transportation is a treasure. That's exactly what we're facing, and there's not enough money to make the country safe on the roads, neither the population nor the tourists, nor the roadfarers. The problem is that the government boasts that a transport program is a treasure, but it shows us nothing more than a starving system. You're breaking down our infrastructure, our transportation system, our roads, so we're in danger when we're out on the road. It's gonna cost us, the highest. Minister, 40 to 60 billion a year to make the political decision to starve the wood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u41	A respectable president. I took under the fact that this had been done for a very long time. That's why it's necessary to look outside the box. The plan is well-finished and has not been put on as much money for a very long time, probably never proportionately, as the present government does, and the greater part suggests. That's why I'd like to ask about them, "This is a quick, untimely debate about charges. " Hv. A senator used almost half of his time in that discussion. The committee had a modest discussion throughout the fall. We will discuss a transport program that refers to the implementation of taxpayers, which will then be discussed at the council in spring and through 2nd. In the fall. When will that talk be timely and not sudden? She must be in the right place, but I was told why. A senator shares fully in it. And finally, the question is, "Why?" A senator agreed with the mayor and the rest of the city's capital that so - called urban pay is needed to prepare and modify the behavior of the people, to promote public transportation, and to build up the city's transport system? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for. I must correct, however, that the discussion of charges did not last year. The traffic talk started abruptly after the November/December month convention and was intended to run that idea through in one week or so because the Congress Convention was scheduled on December 14. So it is not true that this discussion has been going on throughout the autumn. True, visitors were asked how they viewed the pressures of roads on individual roads. But it was no more serious discussion than it was that neither guests nor members of the Environment and Transport Committee realized that this was the unique transport program for members of the Independence Party and the members of the Independence Committee. [[The president calls.]] They were discussing the transport plan, but not the maximum transport plan. A government minister of transportation had submitted himself to the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other members of the committee failed to recognize the issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Helga Vala where they in the smaller part will find money to follow their changes in the pursuit of extensive transport in the capital area, both public and road transport that is in a table, and for the change of plans. I remember no better than that all the suggestions they make on how to find the funds in the state funds should also be used to increase social security and innovation and further education, given discussions on both financial and financial programmes. I'd like to ask my share if he's going to use the money for it or into the road system. Or can the groups they're paying for all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u44	The president reminds the senators to address fully the members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. Where are we going to find the money? Like the one mentioned here, the talk came and can be read in the opinion of the less part of the environment and transport committees are presented in various means of financing. We are talking about 13 billion a year over a period of five years. Where can we find that money? We can, for example. determined to cancel the reduction in fishing costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u46	Wasn't that supposed to pay...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u47	-Was? It wasn't approved. Was it approved? No. You see, it was accepted to lower hunting costs. The government and the majority of the council members decided to reduce their annual hunting costs of 3 billion. The government and the majority of the council members decided to reduce the bank tax by 7 billion a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's it. That's 10 billion a year. Senator. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about a car accident that will pay off in ten years if nothing else is done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll have to finish my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u48	A respectable president. I ask again: Is the increase in hunting fees to pay the panels' suggestions on increasing contributions to senior citizens, increased contributions to disability, increased educational contributions, and increased road resources to respond to these 13 billion dollars? Or has the less part given up to contribute to this category of fishing and agreed that an entire road system is going to finance the 13 billion? I'd also like to state that the fishing costs were not approved; they were rather elevated if anything was. They were being decontaminated. I'm asking why. The senator, who was appointed for the smaller projects, says that the government did not purposely establish priorities for traffic safety. What are the more important priorities? I want a list of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. We're dealing with a transport plan. What we would like to be considered in excess of what the government's transport programme says is the projects that the Roads feel are essential. The list is listed in the panel of smaller sections, but also in the Committee's list of parts, because more parts list them as projects that can be paid by taxation to the public in the country. If we watch the income last year, not this year, but last year, which the state's funds were given for the use of cars in the form of automobile taxes and fuel taxes, there's only there, if we were to make full use of it, 17 billion, or so. Senator. Can we agree that over the next four years, we will spend the money on that project, which is absolutely necessary? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] We're talking about how we can do that, as well as cancel the reduction of hunting bills, etc., as I had said before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u50	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson. This bell was the invitation of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a councilman of the United Nations. People back home feel very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u51	Mr. President. I'm gonna get involved. There's two answers. It's climate and energy exchange. Today, safe and smoother flow of traffic reduces pollution, and so is the fact that if it becomes road costs for fuel users, fuel costs and roadtoll. Electric car owners don't pay energy back, but roadtoll. Does that not move you to change your car? The other question I'd like to ask is what happened at the highest level. Secretary of transportation. In order to actually finance a 90 billion city line and control a flow and reduce pollution in the city, regional expenses, air pollution costs are covered in Reykjavík. There are expenses that go evenly on everyone. What's the difference between those charges and charges?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u52	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's heart for the counter, and he answers that in order to, yes, does not encourage you to change your car completely and to change the road if taxation becomes too high that the public cannot control it. I think it's quite clear, and maybe it's what we want, because we're all going for a better life on earth. That may be the idea of part of the greater part, but I'm not sure that the more part will talk in one voice. Well, they're not exactly developed enough ideas, are they? It seems that in some way it is encouraged to change and leave gasoline and oil cars, but also to use public transport. [[The president calls.]] That's at least What we're doing. However, such a system is also needed to receive it. I have to answer a second question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u53	Mr. President. This is so that taxing can help with energy exchange, that's fine. But what's the difference between a carbon charge and a road tax? If carbon expenditures can be applied to everyone, why should we not pay dues? Same question, I want to hear this. Civil line? Yes, please. I would like to know and as to whether it's not really right when you're working together on the city line, the local community in the capital area and the state, having put 7.1 billion in the first period and then waiting for the deal on how to finance the rest in the second and third periods. That agreement is still in the dough on a committee present. The Declarations of Will are very smart. I can't see that there's any suspicion that state and city will complete the city line, but with possible regional fees, or what we call it, within the city or capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for a second question. In terms of local fees, macroscopic fees, and the like, which are in the discussion in the capital area, I have to say, in effect, that I was a little shocked to hear the top. Ministers speak of them as a source of income for the state's funds. You wonder, " Is my community in the capital area aware that the government fund intends to contribute on its part when it comes to building a city line? ' Then I'd like to describe my amazement at the number as a dog. A senator mentioned as a government contribution in the city line of 7.1 billion. I can't quite figure it out. I don't know any better than there's no dollar in a city line on a transport plan, and the rest of it's proposed a change of 800 million dollars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u55	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has reviewed my committee opinion and has visited many places. Sometimes I feel like a whale. A senator forgets that the basis for the entire discussion is proposals for interpretation that were proposed in the fall and are quite detailed. It is, in fact, there. Explain that a committee now deals with a road payment process, both general and specific of individual activities. So I don't know what suddenly it is about talking about transport currency in the context of this. Environment and Transport Committee. However, I would like to reiterate the question of the highest degree. The secretary of state and transportation has already been asked: "If I have a problem. " A senator agrees with what the mayor has suggested in discussions about using some kind of city fees to change behavior on the city's roads? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir theory of inquiry is very much appreciated. I had failed to realize that it was the basis for a Senate resolution proposal for a five - and - 15 - year - old transportation strategy to be imposed on tax charges, as it were. A senator came in. I only had a little discussion about it in that synopsis proposal. There is no suggestion that certain roads are simply built up and financed by charges. It's very clear that this is something that's being examined in the Ministry, but it's like a dog. A senator well knows that in December the committee was working entirely on the side of the idea of bringing in some adjustments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A member was there, just like the one listed here, and it can be seen in media coverage, when significant changes in transport planning were proposed for funding. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u57	The president again reminds the senators to give a speech lesson. It damages the talk anyway and damages those at home who listen to the talks. When the President passes the 15-second target, he's working a pretty hard one that'll damage everyone. Let's watch the speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga brought the answer to Helgadóttir but still reiterate the question of local city expenses to drive round. I want to turn to public transportation, and I'll start by asking if I've noticed right away. A senator mentioned a flight as part of a public transportation. In this regard, I ask: What does the senator think is an acceptable time for the inhabitants of the country to attend various services for which the nature of the matter will never be offered outside the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u59	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. With regard to the city line, macquerade, redundant charges, and everything I have to say, there may be in many ways a system that controls traffic and is slided in many places just to adjust traffic, so that at the same time, there are no superabundant stoppers. The debate that takes place in the capital area on this point is in the same position as the communications department's concept of possible road expenses. If we look at what it was like, for example. In Norway, road discharge work took no less than three years, and this was after the preparations were made full. The discussion itself was going on for five years or longer. [[The president calls.]] What was being done here was to make a decision on tax charges, stress, in less than a week. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we surely object.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u60	Mr. President. We'll talk about a transport plan and an opening on expenses, which are said to be very controversial. It's not a good start, I think, in this discussion when people begin to wonder when the land began to starve. Was it in the collapse of itself or in the years following, or was it any of the three governments that preceded this present government? True, the infrastructure had been seriously damaged, and when it began to rebuild or beat them, the health - care system was likely put first. There is, of course, debate on how these reforms were achieved. I'm not gonna get involved in that discussion. I have personally used the word "flavored" here on the speaker, but the main thing may be that now first, perhaps in the last administration in some way before, I shall not say so, when such a table had the ability of men to really try to spit in. What do I know about the medical cost of a year that is in the system, 230 to 250 billion? My main concern is that we have 12,000 miles of what we can call a road system and the situation is that there is not a so-called three-star road in Iceland to a European model but a few miles here and where. We're in a position to do something, e.g. the ringway like that. There have been statistics, statistics, showing that it takes hundreds of billions of people to get the system to the point where we can talk about three stars. In this process, there is such a mix of ideas about routes in these chemicals, whether the tax system should be used to bring it on. There's an argument about what taxes and fees are. Somehow it seems that they forgot the old Cheflavour Way, which was a kind of national campaign, is about to call out, get the old worm road out, and dump a road instead with toll gates where they paid for the use. I've forgotten this a little myself, but I understand the charges have dropped as the season passed, from 200 bucks. in 50 K., these are old crowns, but it worked, and I haven't heard anyone criticize that arrangement right now. The proposed protocol is well funded during the first five years and takes on a vast number of things, but it has presented a lot of baloney criticism. It is not enough to do. The funding so far has been a factor. Through automobile taxes and fuel costs. It has been criticized that things do not all go away. The average, we've got it very well calculated, is around 65%, i.e. Fuel costs all and part of the car tax. Where have the other 35% gone? people ask. It can provide a partial answer to that question. Of course, they've been in the health system, in the law enforcement system, or in the educational system, or in some other way. Then you can argue about whether or not it's over your head. But at that point, this previous failure may explain that some of these taxes or taxes do not go to 100% on what they are called, automobile tax, etc. Since the cumulative problem has become a problem, criticism is harsh, and this is followed by an average of 50 billion in damage and accidents. That's why there's a solution we call a fart. I find it very odd to hear that there is a debate over the time to start this discussion and, on the other hand, try to add the fees, it is considered political to go into it. They can be criticized by politicians, but not the time point. The solution to the discussion is not the financing of transport plans as such but the hurrying of the projects that are being carried out there. We may as well call this quick charges if we want to. So it is taking place in three periods of the 15 - year schedule and moving it to speed up the project. We can totally skip the charges and leave other routes behind, and then we can get this transport strategy as it is, as it is suggested, or we can go on, as the government feels, to look for money somewhere else. The main thing is, these projects need to be rushed, and it sounds like people in general agree on that. Why is that? Yeah, it's about security and this calls for it. I can tell you that. We tend to say what we were told on a transport committee in general. We're not going out in individuals, like a cot. A senator was about to go out, what the head of the task group said about one thing and another at a meeting of the Senate committee, but we generally talk about it, and I can be absolutely sure that the national and rural organizations that they came were positive to the roads met by one and other conditions. Some said that they were embarrassed; others said something else. Yet, they do not say that this appeal is not there. It's common in the community. Another change, of course, is tourism. Farm transport has also increased, and if the tourism does not carry an object from the table with the fees it already pays, which are the fuel costs, and if there was an added cut on top of the magnitude we're talking about, I can't see that it has a sharp share from a table, that would be more the tourists themselves. But these are the sums of the order that people who are making 100, 200, 300 yous. K. Travel in Iceland and driving a road does not depend on the need to do what it does, say in Austria, say in some other country. Then it's the public transportation. Because most roads are like this, especially in the country, that they are not offering people or schoolchildren to go to school or that way because of their tough times, especially during the winter, because of holes in the dirt, and because they are insecure. Of course, we know people's anxieties over bad ways in all the land. This year's emergency transport has been solved by contracts between the Roads and others and then the complete planning of this arrangement for the future. Let's hope it works, or at last, next year. Then there's something else I need to mention, the flights and ports that also come into a transport program. It is very unsurpassed not to be seen in general, that, all of us, Istavia should now be opened if we put it that way. They take on business and maintain three reserve airports, Reykjavík, Egls, Akureyri. As a result, money is released to repair other airports on the land, Ísafjörður, Húsavík, Cape, Western Islands, etc. and even other airports that are important, whether for personal flight or for flying lessons. Along with the Scottish route, which is being referred to, with probably eight legs for half a dollar, all of this is a good thing to increase the role of flying in public transportation. At the same time, it is quite certain that with these new aircraft now being used in a very large number of cases, perhaps up to two passengers in a car, the use of flying in a long way rather than a private car or car. It's important that you do so. It's a little bit more about the charges. I've been replying to the charges, and people want to ask, What will the amount be? We're paying $1,500. For someone who parks like a Venetian tunnel? It is therefore possible to explain that a group of tasks we have discussed has used a specific basis and made this conclusion - it aims at average pay in the Havenan tunnel - the size range is one-six to one-third of that amount. So we're talking about charges that might be worth a hundred dollars, relatively rare, on the shortest lines, up to 100, 200, maybe 300 bucks. On the map. Then we're talking about the long legs with the higher amounts and the short legs with the others. This amount must be considered in the context of something. There's no use doing what's wrong. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who put out his homepage or where it was now kind of an advertisement based on respect of charges, and the question was: Do you have or do you have against expenses? There were 1,100 answers or something similar. There was no question about what was included in these charges. And now I'm going to try to explain it. The actual cost of driving is available and is 60, 70, 80, to 110, 120, even 130 k. every mile, i.e. A hundred miles could be 6,000. the actual cost of $12,000. the actual cost. It needs to be re-edited if it's so that it reduces fuel expenditure, speeds up driving, and saves us costs of accidents and damage. Suppose the driver of the road, whether or not he will do so once a week or five times a week as he has done, suddenly he needs to pay his dues. I took the panel one day and I calculated 10,000 miles of driving, and I always paid for it, and 150 bucks. A price. I was up to 15, 20, 30 up. K. This year, which falls on the amount of 1 million to drive a car. But who, then, is the river? Exactly the one I just described. You drive the road with 70% less risk because of accidents and save half a quart of gasoline, which is almost what you pay for expenses. Thus, all of this must be discussed; the actual cost of a car, the potential amount of these bills, and the profit. It's not a tax. This is a price to be paid for it. That's different from what we call taxes that just go into the pits, as they say. This is the difference between automobile taxes and fuel costs. Just to the city line. It's where people really have the arrangement in Oslo, I'm telling you. There are areas in the capital area called Akershus and Oslo. It contains capital area taxation in the capital area. This model I really think is what men are talking about. These 90 billion, could become more, will not be shaken out of proportion any less than by our own participation in this way, that we may participate in the subsidies into the city, and we who live here drive between areas and have to pay 50 or 100 bucks. or whatever it is now. You can study this in Oslo. It took them 15 or 20 years to build this system. And what was it built up for? To improve city traffic flow, to reduce city traffic, to reduce pollution in the city and to pay public transportation, i.e. They properly build up information for real time, and there are three, five, seven minutes between the system, three times the time. This cost 144 billion Norwegian dollars and took all that time. They started putting 15% into public transportation. Then they were up to 50% and now in the last schedule, the third Oslo pack, it's 70%. This is what I think is real. The idea that we put forward here, both the transport programme itself and the tax proposals, is the basis for five main advantages. There are five basics that lead into the city, which are then tax dependent on these low amounts of money I was talking about, and then they give the regional fees absolutely certainly. We can call this annull or charge or pollution fees. I want to call it regional fees. Then you have to build the system itself. It took between 4 and 6% after years in Oslo to build the system itself, i.e. investing in the device. Now I'm not talking about spending on highways, I'm talking about paying for the capital area in Oslo, and this real-time recovery all, etc. You can see from this that by modern electronic methods, this is not an insurmountable amount, and it probably also applies to the building work on the highways. This is not 20, 30%, or something like that, for a thousand cars a day's round, and the cost of developing the system could lie in this range. According to one estimate, 7.1 billion are presented. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said I owned the kingdom. No, no, this is, of course, 50:50 times, 800 million from each in preparation and then again 2.75 billion. That is the first period of transportation. There will be no more than 50:50, and if this amount is to be divided in those years, it will not be until the city and the state have come to an agreement. I can't see in any way that there is not enough discussion about the city line in this committee party. On the contrary. It is also wrong that public transportation and their translation are not adequately discussed and that these are guaranteed in this same committee. I'm just going to do this on a controversial point, which is the effect that this haste has. Now, let's just say, whether we could raise money somewhere in the tax system or if we were to use roads, it happens when transportation is rushed within this 15 year period that money is released. There is nothing wrong with socializing that the billions of such releases are being used on a non-refunded land. From the southwestern corner to the West, there may be an estimated 500 million. I'm just saying, "Yes, thank you." It is of great importance that infrastructure also fell into areas outside the capital without paying prenupes, beyond the fact that many of these roads are not due to small traffic costs. People talk about the tunnel. I challenge to read the Earth tunnel chapter before they say things because it opens up that there's going to be a fee in a tunnel. They don't tell who. It is said that there must be an agreement between parts of the land and the state. And why? Yes, it turns out that maintaining five miles of a tunnel is far more expensive or more expensive than maintaining five miles [5 km] of any road. [[The president calls.]] There is one thought that is behind it, which is not preposterous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, who spoke of the reviews sent in, did not answer my questions about what to read or what to do with them. Here's the website I made. It has two buttons, and it says: "I object to charges or "I'm up to my dues." This opens an email where you can fill more. The following is a very detailed explanation and text from the Committee's memo, a detailed explanation of the issues involved. For presentation on this subject, there were written articles in the Morning newspaper, distributed on a number of flocks, the liberal group. There was no partiality in the way the counsel on how people could post envelopes was distributed. I wrote an article in the Morning newspaper. Senator. The second article in the morning article was the one that turned in most references. [[The president calls.]] So I would love to hear it. A senator would review why these comments cannot be ignored. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u62	Mr. President. If I were asked if I was opposed or charged with charges and was given arguments from some senator - who would probably be in a position of government if I was a member of the state - I need the other evidence. Was it explained what was behind it, and what good thing was it? Did they make a profit? Did they go through it? Why do we think this charge is smart enough to speed it all up? That's a big deal for me. In this respect, we can get a thousand people to say, "I'm against charges on the basis of what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, but not on my terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u63	A respectable president. As much as I would like to share the differences between automobile taxes and fuel costs and the wording around expenses and taxes, I will only continue this with the reviews. This letter tells me that I object to the requirements of road stress as expressed by a greater proportion of the environment and transport authorities. There, the memo was published full feet. People are taking their stand on words to a greater part of the environment and transport committee, not less words. People who give these reviews give them in their name and expect to be responsible for what they're sending out, right? Isn't there anything to say to their own words?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u64	Mr. President. I'm going to admit that this expression, not paying attention, is unfortunate. Wait a minute. A senator's apologies. But it does not make it difficult to draw conclusions from the comments of a thousand people who have the basis but none of the ones I can present myself, no argument other than those on this memo - except that we need to make sure that everyone reads this memo, and we assume that everyone has. I am convinced that these comments have not changed what is called this haste or solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u65	Mr. President. During the years following the collapse, from 2013 to the present day, the political decision was made not to use the growth period to promote the infrastructure and the road system. It was a political decision to reduce taxes to the rich, to extend the amount of housing that needed nothing more than to go into the infrastructure. Now we talk. A senator is very excited that we say to the common people: " Do you want a road cut? Do you want security? Then you'll have to pay, and you'll have to pay for it. Got it. Is this fair to a senator? Should not the tax system be used first and be used for income and equations? Increase hunting costs, postpone bank taxes, add a fortune tax to all the richest? Only these three would speed up, which is referred to in a greater part of the transport committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u66	Mr. President. A political decision - yes, it is probably absolutely correct. I'm not involved, and I'm convinced that this could have been done in another way. I can't answer that again. We all agree that there is a need for money to be made. As a left man, I'll support the tax system, but if we go for it. A senator spoke of them waiting for a great deal of other work. Which one should we choose? If I recognize the benefits of this, people run these routes anyway, I believe that by the low price there is a better and more efficient way to get into the tax system changes that are not even more involved in this ideal government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we're the only ones left green, here at the council that likes, for example. increase income tax in step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u67	Mr. President. I can make you happy. A member of the Parliament who has the Union's tax policy just to increase the number of tax steps so that he has left green hawks in the corner. However, they have decided to work with others. The tax system changes were made that gave 500 K. more than legalised increases in personal discount. Who's gonna have to pay 500 bucks? many times a month's tax to get on its way? If you read these ideas, which are sometimes said to have been decided and sometimes not - I'm not on this committee, but I get really confused when the board members are explaining what it's supposed to be. But everyone agrees that the people of the South are the citizens who are to bear the heat and weight of these charges. [[The president calls.]] It's the Smokey Way and the Southland Road. Then it has all the gates into the capital. This will disqualify the population, and this is an unfair tax to the common people as a model for independence men, whom I'm surprised to experience. A senator should be so inspired. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u68	Mr. President. I'm gonna apologize, I forgot the United States on tax issues. But that's not enough, we wouldn't get together on government, left green, and Convergence. 500 bucks. far too high to be told, but anyway. We raised capital taxes, so they don't forget all the taxes we have here. But it is, in fact, the most extensive roads that pay for it. It's simple. Hence, these three strains, also the most uncertain of the country, exist. Once again, there is a reward to be remembered, namely: what can I get that road one more time for 200 bucks? Which I'll pay. I listed all of this earlier. I don't understand calling this a curse, paying 200 bucks. and get something that's 300 bucks, 500 bucks, 1,000 bucks. worth it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u69	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. On page 18. 12 of the Treaty deals with transportation and communication. It's rather early in the Constitution, and it says in the beginning, in the first paragraph, by permission of the president: ▪ A project is faced in a country-wide infrastructure. So it continues: ▪ These include transport projects. Some items are listed, urgent projects in the infrastructure. This is revealed in the transport and communication phases as first as possible. Then it says: In the years that follow, there is room for government property to be used on such projects, thus ensuring the solid infrastructure that is the key to a wide range of intensive and productive activities across the country. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was telling me that the government's belongings are around 33 billion, but the state intends to use 30 of them to pay off debt. [[Take it up for: payoffs.]] It's just the money money, yes, there's more property money. Then the State will use 30 billion to pay off the debt of the state fund and take loans for transportation. Does the senator agree that this is about the situation, and how does he justify it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u70	V.E.G. President. These are serious questions. I may not be very clever in financial matters, but the State's debts must have high interest or be difficult to repay, but I assume that loans made to these projects will be with the most beneficial of all. Perhaps it will answer some of the questions. When we discuss putting even the State's property into the infrastructure, we are also setting priorities. The priority order now is that the health system is number one. You can debate whether the education system is number two or three or if the roads come in between. Of course, that is a political decision. That's why I think the solution there is completely defending.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u71	Mr. President. The government can take out a loan without charging its citizens. The government can use his property income to pay off debt and then take other loans and use them to develop a transport program immediately. Thus, national safety and quality of life would be guaranteed in terms of time, stress, etc. This can be done. I know that there are probably 80 individuals at the left-hand council of green who approved the Treaty, and it says that the government's revenues are not to be used for this project, in building transport. Not all government property funds are being used for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u72	Paybacks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u73	There's a certain way to make money, and I'd like to ask you for an answer. This is to be put in three places on the way out of the capital, to pay for all kinds of transportation. Has the senator seen to it that he might be able to pay by having his cars read? [[The president calls.]] It would be a great deal to pay just for what you're using. Is the senator in favor of it, instead of just being charged that's coming in and out of the capital?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u74	Mr. President. Hv. A senator said, "Take a loan without charging for it. ' I know there was something more behind, but we need the funding. [[Up front.]] We can take it by going to the tax and payment, as it is called. In the end, this is always a question of what we put it in, as I was trying to say before. And what's more, even if it's in the government contract, I expect the government to agree to do something else. It would be a strange government treaty in five years that could never be removed if the government agreed to do so. I simply bear for myself that it is. I'd like to point something out. Main roads are known worldwide. The money they produce is sometimes private. Sometimes it's the State. But they go on roads, not just the one, but one on the other. This is a well - known way around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson's Trausti for his excellent speech earlier. There are two points I would like to include in my speech. Senator. On the one hand, I would like to express my joy in approach to him that road users would certainly benefit from some of the activities being carried out, whether on the basis of the funds previously planned for transportation plans or additional funds that could be obtained by a well-exploited shortcutal bill, as it were. On the other hand, I'd like to ask. The senator on what has been said by the previous speakers here, that there has been little discussion until December. It's not my experience with the committee discussions and question. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson shares my opinion that there has been a much later session of road charges at the November/December monthly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u76	Mr. President. Of course, this advantage is key and the criteria discussed, 1/6 to 1/3 of 600 K, are based on a set of criteria and must be included in this discussion. This is so that the tax price should not exceed that the abduction rate should be greater or equal to the size of the charges. That's what I was trying to trace. I think the road talk was actually going on for years. It's come up over and over again. But I'm gonna have to grieve. A senator who is unable to explain when it began in the fall. He may be able to clarify this better for himself. I was too busy with my four committees to remember all of this. Within the committee, we received considerable visits. [[The president calls.]] I wonder if the committee has arranged for a meeting of 100 constituted 150 people. There were discussions and information that would be practical for members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There's a duplicating attempt from the one mentioned here not looking up when a special discussion took place on the committee, but I am sure that it was before November/demes - a certain part of it. I'd like to add a question to why. A senator I care about because of his speech earlier. It reverses the comparison between the emissions of a passenger aircraft and the emissions of those traveling in their own car, one or two together, as we know most of the time. I thought it was interesting, and I have to admit that I had not considered this specifically, but I am pleased to know that the international flight will be just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u78	Mr. President. I'm a special person for flying, so I'm obliged to answer for this. This project committee, which has been working on this project, was first informed that it was based on a completely completed Fucker 50 aircraft. It was from Reykjavík to Akureyri. If they had taken that route, they would have less or similar carbon tracks than this plane. I contacted Sam energy again for information about the new engines, the Bombardiers, and polluted one-third less than the same as the 50 to 170 aircraft. If anything, this number has gone up. So if a car is completed, four, five passengers, it's not like that, but most trips are different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u79	Mr. President. We'll discuss the transport programme of independent groups, the left greens and forwards, a plan that has been carried out by a number of countries over the past few weeks, mainly because of the sensitivity of the Commission and the working force of the fundamental changes that have been introduced in the past in terms of a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. It is not enough to justify the importance of making such extensive changes as are in the water in a professional way. The confusing image that has been drawn from the position has prevented stakeholders from being given the opportunity to make helpful comments. That's not good. From the beginning, this has been vague in the minds of many, e.g. Visitors who have been announced for a meeting on the environment and transport committee and stakeholders, whether or not the current taxpayer is meant to be temporarily funded for individual projects or whether it is a new long-term fee paid by road users instead of current taxation or both. Clearly, this is important. The public, the user of the transport system, is now paying fees, fuel charges, oil bills, carbon bills, and automobile costs. By increasing the traffic of vehicles that do not use fossil fuels, the state's income of gasoline and oil costs are added and will need to be treated. The proposals of the transport secretary's staff on the funding of the transport system include various avenues of the Committee, such as extending the tax system by increasing the number of automobile costs, taking up temporary expenses or spending, e.g. By reading on miles of automobiles or transport systems in cars. However, these ideas are not being discussed in a transport program. Rather, in March it is related to the Commission's report on transport funding, if I understand the facts correctly. I refer to the review of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee on the matter, which says, by permission of the President: The majority point out that the general structure of traffic requires a complete reexamination in progress and that energy exchange has moved forward. When that work is already under way by the government. Nevertheless, it has been difficult to dissipate the many misunderstandings that, in turn, fuel costs are being replaced by a new future of transport energy exchange. It is not so, Mr. President, but it is unfortunate that the presentation of the case was so difficult that even the stakeholders who attended a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee at the beginning of this year to discuss these new ideas did not seem sufficiently informed. The fact that transportation is the very lifeblood of the nations applies especially to our small, peripheral land. Even so, for years the authorities have neglected their role in the general construction and maintenance of the country's roads. As new challenges are added to the growing number of tourists in recent years, it is clear that action is needed. The fact is certainly reflected in the changes in transport programmes in the management of most of the environment and transport committees, both in changing approach and in proposals in the Committee and in changes. In view of the smaller parts as well as the change in proposals, the same urgent need is met in a different way. V.E.G. At the end of September, the secretary of transportation recommended a transport program. As a consequence, the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee took over the matter as usual and sent out the plan. The committee sent the story to 112 parties, but at the end of that time, there were excerpts of a total of over 1,500. Most of them remember the number of exhortations. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, was interested in speaking, especially as a result of planned roads in the southwest corner of the country. In October and November, after the ultimate. A transport minister put in place his plans, brought a number of visitors and collected huge and valuable information as well as requesting changes in priorities, more capital, better cooperation, etc. That information was referred to as working with it when the greater part, and especially at the highest level. Secretary of transportation, cowves in his approach of the case, at least officially. A smaller proportion of the environment and transport committees feel that the immediate and premature discussion of the majority of the cut-offs has taken into account the work established by the Commission in terms of extending national and rural cohesion policies to implementation and priorities in the areas of transport. It is also amazed that the messages received by the committee show very little in the review of much of the section, while the more emphasis is placed on the idea of road expenses to finance special projects. In view of the bill of financing and the information published by the Environment and Transport Committee, it has been agreed to include priorities and implementation in my opinion and to our opinion that the less part would be preferred to identify its place in the Commission now and to work on a road tax proposal would be better implemented before further observance, including with regard to social impact and equality among the inhabitants of this country. Taking into account the urgency of the implementation of specific projects, especially in road - weight areas on the southwestern corner of the country, and the short way to transport of roadways, including In view of the practical aspects of performance and aspects such as social impacts and the importance of equality, the proposal of the less part of the Environment and Transport Committee for the implementation and the inclusion of the changes made by the less part will be funded by the state's funds. However, it is not surprising that the financing of projects primarily for the security of the people of the land is at the level of the government through the government fund. It also plays on the fact that, despite all the initiatives, it is not of the order that it is impossible to finance them differently than using such a special taxation on other taxation on the majority of the common people. Among other means of financing are the pressures of resource expenditures, increase in hunting fees, some sort of payment on special costs, or tax on tourists, which so often have been discussed, even experienced, selling state property, or simply by a decrease in the share of state funds in the light of circumstances. When these advantages, and some others I have not mentioned but imagine that some might keep in mind, we can also bear in mind the economic benefits that result from important construction projects. The community's cost of road accidents because of insufficient roads in rural areas and urban areas is estimated to be 50 billion dollars. every year. Economic improvement in the activities in question, i.e. Three strains were to enter and out of the capital, according to preliminary urbanisations, would be up to less than a decade at the time of covering the project in two decades, i.e. For a considerable time after the construction work has really paid off itself. A smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee supports the proposal of a greater proportion of priorities as reflected in the chapters, road resources funded by remuneration, and various road roads on the road. We also support proposals for new projects and quick implementation of designated projects on the land, with professional assessment of road transport. However, by the reasoning I have traced, the smaller part does not account for the need to collect tax charges to finance it. Sets the memory item to change the transport program to make sure that the basic projects will be attacked as soon as possible and financed in another way, as I've traced. In addition, the smaller item suggests that money is immediately put in the Eaglenes Road, the roads that the government is going to postpone again and again. In addition, the greater part has stressed that these projects will be linked to collections of roads. The action on Eaglenes Road is simply an important safety factor for a large part of the nation that needs to put first in its priorities and is unacceptable to adjust them to depend on the outcome of a southwestern angle payment. It is proper to note that while the approach and implementation of more part of the environment and transport committees on a road plan as a way to speed up the specific urgent transport efforts are rejected by obvious reasons, it is not evidence on my part that I believe such a way is impossible, on the contrary. I think that under certain circumstances it may be positive to go on the way to paying dues, e.g. when road users can choose other routes, when a professional conclusion on the social impact of so large a project is achieved, when there are not literally all the routes in and out of the capital area, and most important, when it is being taken into account that equal value among citizens and taxpayers of the country. These conditions are not there, as is stated on the part of the issue. Mr. President. I'd like to keep talking about things like this. It is apparent that the contribution of the large capital area to the total transport budget is much less than the rate of tax pay from road vehicles in the same area. It is one of the issues that simply have a social agreement and an understanding that if things were not handled like this, there would be little more than that in the scattered areas. Today, however, the population of the great capital area is much further cursed by taxation. I call it taxation because, as it's presented, it's all under that definition. The review of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee shows that the budget for transport is not expected to be reduced because of the expenditure of projects proposed by the Committee to be funded by road expenses, i.e. The three main groups from the capital area. On the other hand, since it will no longer be funded from a government fund, as a plan assumes in part, it will be reimbursed elsewhere. There is a road to travel and a road out in the country, etc., certainly not exactly implemented, but so it is. This is what is now funded by government funds because of construction on the three main tracks, then roadors come in, the inhabitants of the southwest corner will carry the heat and weight of it, and the space will go elsewhere. This is nothing more than an additional taxation on the southwestern corner population. The same can be said of the intention of taking the roads all at once, so that all roads will be brought in and out of the city, subject to road charges, and the people have no other means of choosing, if at all they want to live here. It's taxation. And a further definition: this is regional taxation, Mr. President. There's a lot of work to do. I'm interested in coming to public transportation in another speech that I, in my optimism, felt possible that it would be possible to do it again today or tonight, but it seems that it would have to be delayed for a while. But I'm gonna take a city line talk. The city line is the cooperation project of every member of the country in the capital area, which, contrary to tribunal politics, has agreed on the necessary task, the most important thing in the most important public transport party. If it should be well, public transportation on a national level would be an honorary seat in the government's transport program, whether for five or 15 years. The reason is obvious, and there is a point such as an impact on farming, transportation, driving, and traffic security, and most notably the climate, one of the greatest and most important tasks today's governments are facing in any world. Without the city's highlands, that goal will not be realized. They're not gonna get caught. The transport system of the capital area will e.g. The number of private vehicles on the road is not controlled nor will the Icelandic government draw close to commitment in climate matters. What, then, are the obligations of the government on the affairs of the city line? The real deal is to put a total of 800 million. K. in the transport program for the next 15 years, i.e. in the next two years, and no more, a real event. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees believe that certain projects in the programme are actually part of a building of a city line and a building point in the capital area. This part can be rushed by planned target measures. Serious comments can be made to what can be read, that projects largely make it necessary for the capital capital capital to provide financial support by means of taxation in the city line of the government. I would love to be corrected if there's a misunderstanding, misread the suggestions. The minority supports the proposal of a greater part of the Committee about 300 million. K. This year's contribution suggests that the annual contribution of the State to the 2 billion each year will be made in order to ensure that the project will be the first. Similarly, the change in transport plans is proposed in order to provide needed funding during the second and third periods of the transport program. In the case of air transport, a smaller part of the environment and transport committee is right to suggest that the time leading up to the development of a new and re-evaluated transport strategy will be submitted until the fall, as reported, to the point of entering the fixture of the transport team on ways to achieve the efficiency of domestic flight management and lower airport costs. In particular, these suggestions will be in relation to the improvements in public transport all over the country, and it is especially a lack of vision in the part which makes it necessary for the next weeks and months to continue working on this issue. The focus and goals of climate need to be prominent in that work; otherwise, it is unacceptable whether it is regarded as international commitment or as the responsibility of the government to future generations. In this context, e.g. Consider the location of Reykjavík's heart centres, but improvements there can play a key role in achieving destinations for transport in the capital area, traffic flow and safety, the distribution of tourists through the land and climate. Mr. President. The existing transport strategy is significant. Many of the information presented would have merited careful consideration at the end of the work of the environment and transport committee, as it did in the first part. The attendance, opinions, and suggestions of the number of stakeholders who responded to the call of the Committee, sent in reviews, and attended her meeting might have been more relevant to the final outcome. But all right, other things were more important. Unsurpassed ideas about the possibility of a future budget of financing, whether on the agenda after two months or so, led to the development of a transport plan as we see it here and the opinion of the greater part with the emphasis it has. The work of the environment and transport committee on important transport issues, on funding and priorities in individual parts of the country, in line with the wishes and wills and needs of those there have been delayed. I hope that the conclusion will be that there will be an opportunity for us to do well and to work well, to listen to the person's wishes when it comes to reviewing a new transport program. A minister of the next fall, because the meetings certainly provided a number of good tips, especially on the work force, on cooperation, on how to work together to get a top - priority conclusion, which is certainly not always about the kroner and the aura, but about listening to those who are close to their work. I wish we would have the best of luck to make that trip the very first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent review of her vision of a transport plan. At the same time, those words were not as large as those of an aluminium. A senator's signature, including one, is signed. for premature and sudden discussion of the majority of the Committee on road charges. Then I would just like to remind you that the plan for transportation was set aside in the fall, page 30. 36, payoffs are discussed. The first round. Which took place in the Assembly Hall, including all members of the Parliament, in this discussion, and discussed the matter. thinking of using fees, charges, and, in fact, most people were rather positive. I'm a little surprised at my position in this context and I'd like to get an explanation from the why. A senator on this change of pace. The article also discusses the fact that it was too little, and I agree with it. Here we are dealing with it, never more money has been put in place. Hv. A senator was in the government for a year. Then there was no idea of large increases in transportation, so I ask: " What has changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u81	Yeah, now I can't do much on it in two minutes, if it's the best. A travel minister does not see the difference between discussing road charges as possible inputs to work and proclaiming the bill of changing transport funding in March, which is a possible indication that these are the ones to be discussed, and then the other, to overthrow with additional taxation, as I went over the past, a approach to transportation in the urban areas, in the capital. There's the difference, and I've been here many times since the case came up and declared that it's the right thing to discuss. I've also reviewed it in my case quite thoroughly why I believe the methodology used is not correct, and so I hope we come together into this case because something needs to come along. This is one of the ways, to make it so steep, as men have talked about here, a cost to all stocks at this rate, and to take on a more efficient budget from a transport program, this amount of financial gain as high as possible. A minister mentioned, and put it in something else. [[The president calls.]] I haven't even signed it yet. I'll find out what's changed later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u82	A respectable president. Of course, this is very interesting because my view is that this is where it started with a discussion about the transport process of thinking outside the box because there was so much demand for faster building up, despite the fact that we had money that has never been put on a transport program before. That was exactly the discussion at the council. A transport program is now being developed to the Commission to implement these ideas. In my U.S. Constitution in the fall, there were ideas that in March a bill came up on this subject. Now we're discussing that our financial agenda will become clear, so the discussion is perfectly natural. She's not sudden or untimely, she's in the right place. Then we will continue to discuss this in March, and hopefully we will contribute to the next fall of transportation when we see how this plays together. One of the things we've been discussing, that's why. A senator has spoken of regional remuneration, as much as the greater part of the city. A senator and her party are in, with special requests for a fee in the capital area to build up public transport and infrastructure, and to establish a successful operation, as is done in many cities. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not agree with this, or is it something called regional taxation in the eyes of the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u83	Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. We have come to the conclusion that we disagree on how these matters are worked. I still hope that we will be less inclined to disagree on the ultimate outcome. There's always hope. Regarding whether I disagree with the government's ideas on some kind of payment within the city targets, it depends on further implementation, as long as other transport options are available. Then I call back to things like the city line, other public transportation, or just other ways that don't require payment. Then we're talking about something else. Then we're talking about a definition of payment. These terms simply matter. So, no, I'm not completely and completely incompatible, even thinking it might be a nice way, but filling up the same conditions I've described after being there when talking about national road charges, not regional taxation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u84	... both timely and necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u85	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council asked me a question like that. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, who also sign the committee's opinion of the minority. How do they actually suggest that 13 billion a year for the next four or five years will be financed? Where will they get that money? Do we really see in this view the memory of the object, where there are no legal suggestions on how to deal with funding options to promote transport in the capital area alone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u86	I thank the answer that's like, if I heard it correctly, what my colleague and another representative of my figure got. To answer, we list specific ways. There are some suggestions. Some of them seem more appealing to me than others. I mentioned in my talk, e.g. the sale of state property that is not of the opinion simply because there is no perfect agreement among us, no more than I imagine to be among the governments. I'm not the boss here, I'm not in any more of it. I can't figure out which way to go. These are, however, the suggestions on the table. In view of the fact that I find the way to pay my dues, as I described in the talk and again in response to the Supreme Court. Minister before, don't walk up, not all the routes at once, not at the same time as a coin is taken out of the funding of the state funds to this same area and put another, I think it is worth one Mass to go to other things. That, in spite of all the money in the world, is huge. [[The president calls.]] Yet, there are 13 million that can easily be drawn from some other suggestions, even a combination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u87	President wants less of it. Congress officials believe that the president is addressed at the beginning of a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u88	A respectable president. If I could understand a word of it. The senator's rights are correct, as they are less inclined to offer suggestions that are not completely up - to - date or not implemented. So be it. [[HFK: Listen.]] Then I'd like to ask the following sentence from the minority opinion, by permission of a president: ▪ It will be the only thing that the government will deliberately put aside necessary roads in order to speed them up by charges. So I ask, " What have we done more? ' What are some of the projects mentioned above that are definitely essential to road construction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u89	Mr. President. For the first part, the question arises. Senator whether or not I consider fit to represent the less part of the team to present overcrowded ideas. May I refer to the wording of a greater proportion of the transport and environment committees that have repeatedly declared that the charges of road spending are incomplete. All that has to be set up is to put into action. Perfectly incomplete and incomplete. Perfectly vague ideas on regional taxation on the inhabitants of the southwest corner. Mr. President. If there's anything, I think it's more a bite in the suggestion of my share as far as it's concerned. I'm so mad I can't remember the second part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u90	What are the projects...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u91	Thank you. In answer, then, it has been said that priorities in transport are in the process of making the most urgent projects for security reasons. Nevertheless, they are back in line and will be financed only by means of roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u92	Who's in front?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u93	- I don't have time, Mr. President has begun beating on the bell, and I've become afraid of him. [[The president calls.]] - It's reinvented on a transport schedule, you'll see. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It's a...-from a transport program funded in a transport program. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u94	The President's had a bad time. There may be anger more, and he would get his way down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u95	A respectable president. I had decided to ask myself, " How do I know that? ' In answer to the previous question, a senator asked: Did any guest come to the committee with a suggestion to bring up some particular project on the schedule again, further into the future, depending on what we mean? There are some projects, considering why. A senator who does not fulfill his goal for security purposes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u96	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I fear that I will not be able to understand a question two minutes ago. A senator, on the other hand, to answer that question. What we're talking about in this view is that the transport strategy is believed to be provided by the transport authorities, not merely financial support, but the priorities it places in relation to security. This does not include these root routes in the capital area because they come in on roads. What does that mean? That they are not considered by the transport authorities to be as important in safety as in transport programmes. That's the point. I can tell by the face. A senator either doesn't understand me or disagree. I'm just suggesting that as members of the Environment and Transport Committee, we pursue the matter. This is our approach in this matter. Not only will it be released but it will not be held. Not only do we have reason to boast about the more important challenges in the area's overall security strategy but it is also possible to plan for the citizens of the capital area to finance projects, which are also supported by their being the most important security agenda. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u97	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. This helps me to understand what's happening. A senator is leaving, but on the other hand, I disagree completely because these projects have not been moved. The majority of the objects have not suggested that. However, the majority say: It is not acceptable to perform these projects at the rate available to the transport program. Hence, we need to find ways to speed them up. That's when I want to change my mind. Looks sharp. A senator of the transportation system as a unit? I have been inclined to view it as a unit, whether in the care of the State or in the community, but the key is that we look at it as one unit. Then, in the end, I'm going to step in on what I was going to say at the outset, that I rejoice over what was presented. A senator's opinion of certain things that we agree on, as she adopted priorities in the opinion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u98	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer and the question. I agree that we just need to keep disagreeing about the other approach, but it would be best for us to keep working on it. That's what we're here to do. About whether I'd regard the public transportation system as a whole... [[The whole transportation system.]] Yes, I'm sorry, the transportation system as a unit, I really do. This does not change human responsibility for making it work. There are communities, it enters the state, it is financed in different ways, depending on the different agreements, if any. A senator is looking for the way I look at the financing. It is clear where the government's responsibilities are in transportation, e.g. The structure of public transport in the capital area and transport in general, although the city authorities are strong and thus have to pay the bridge in a much higher proportion than some would say was fair. But indeed it is one unit, so it is important that we be careful and work together on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u99	Mr. President. So I notice in the final section in the opinion of the lesser parts of Reunion and the four - page United States, that there are eight lines of communication in the country. But there is no mention of any flight security or comments that came, serious reports about the flying system, its structure to ensure safety in the country. It would be nice to ask for something about why it is missing. Maybe it's a question, too. A senator agrees with me that Iceland's flight, the domestic flight, is part of a public transportation in the country. And again, whether it is necessarily similar for the inhabitants of the country to say in Akureyri, which takes seven hours and 15 minutes to take a bus between them, and perhaps 12 mouse 14 hours to take public transportation, bus, to Egil positions from Reykjavík. Where is the threshold where we can talk about public transportation by bus, so we can expect any public transportation at any time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u100	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer from what happened. Senator. I'm glad to get the flight into the discussion. I don't know why. A senator was in here when I spoke about the flight earlier and spoke of, in view of the importance of road talk and footways, and the urgent need for the palm of the hand, that it also had to be done well. Then I requested that, at the same time as this work well and closely with the main stakeholders for the construction of public transport throughout the country, the proposals of that committee or the service group were also under way. And the president ruleth, which gave fine counsel. Because I don't think they've got enough attention. There were other challenges. And in view of the reinstatement of transport plans in the fall, I pray that we will go to work on this project together; a dense network, public transportation, and domestic flights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u101	Mr. President. It is a short time that we have to discuss these matters. I asked questions: What time can we talk about as a public bus ride? Seven hours and 15 minutes to Akureyri, 12 mouse hours from Reykjavík to Eglish Street. Is it something we can build on when talking about public transportation in the country? This is necessary because I often feel that the conference at the Assembly Hall is supposed to be burning around the country's highway in the street. Is that likely to happen at some point? We're not getting a train system, I think it's pretty clear. I want the answer to the questions. I noticed the conversation about the flying issues at which point. A senator, she was a short one. And around Reykjavík's airport. I disagree with many of the people there. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees that we should aim at it again, as expressed by the Environment and Transport Committee, that it is possible for all citizens of the country to get to Reykjavík from around the country in 3.5 hours? [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to have an answer to that, too. [[Up front.]] That all residents of the country should make their way to Reykjavík from the country in 3.5 hours to Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u102	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u103	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I have no particular interest that it takes me 12 hours to get to the necessary service, not talking about the services I can make a requirement that governments give me in view of my paying off taxes and duties. So I completely agree with what. A senator there needs to make some improvements. I like the rest of them on wood, we view the transportation system as one unit, including the air traffic, but if it is. A senator is trying to get me to take a stand on the report right here and now, once I've declared that I want more time to look at it in the context of public transportation, we can't - it comes to the structure - I think 12 hours is coming to public transport? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Because I didn't understand the question. I want this to be a statue. I want everyone to have the option of using our public transportation systems and I believe it is very important that it be worked in context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u104	Mr. President. First thing I want to say is thank you for the manager of the case. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, for his history here at the beginning of this discussion. - I'm on this committee party, so I'm going to let myself say that basically, there's the viewpoint I'm leading in the committee's opinion. [[Two members of the United States take their place next to a public speaker with hates on, F.]] I agree with them, I want to say it specifically. First, I'd like to try to frame up and put in context what messages were sent out to the people by means of the transport secretary's contributions here at the beginning of the autumn Summit. It was, in fact, that the Smokey Way would not be finished until 15 to 20 years later. The southern road to Selephos would not be finished for 15 to520 years. The western road up to the city of Towns would not be finished for 15 to 20 years. I think that we in here can all agree that that that message wasn't acceptable at all. This does not involve criticism of the highest level. Secretary of transportation. This program was tailored to a financial program adopted here last spring meeting, if I recall just the first week of June 2018. Today's debate reflects to some extent what I allow me to call the lack of transport often experienced. I did a few research on it - it wasn't deep enough, I didn't have time to do it -- how many senators had been concerned about transport funds and the development of the transport system when these financial programs were being won and discussed. There were not many of them. I kept what I personally thought was an inspired talk on the importance of improving the budget, but there was very little response. This is the experience I've had in talking about transportation for so long. But I have to say, "What?" paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has been very interested in these matters, but he is the 1st vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee, and why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason may be concerned that every time, I allow myself to say, as he comes up here, no matter what the problem is, he talks about the situation in the national road system as a public threat, and that is, of course, all the accidents that occur on the highways and the breakdown of the road system we've experienced in recent years. Now I've been over the atmosphere of transportation during the discussions here at the council. Of course, if the discussion and interest were more balanced and understanding of the need for financial management, I would appreciate it personally. Because the fact is - again: My assessment may not have been scientific, and I did not examine every speech on the foundation - that I have not seen why. Councilmen who say that it is now only a task to perform all the detailed tasks outlined in the majority opinion and finance it from a government fund speak to it here so that it is probably a matter of speech and simpleness, and that it needs to be taken up to find a place to finance it from within the state's funds. It's interesting, and it's good that we do this right now. But it hasn't done it in the early stages, certainly not. We have an enormous array of problems in the transport system. You could say that there are a little bit of the way it is, but I think the overall problem, so to speak, lies in the range of 2001⁄2350 billion in the cumulative need for a new economy and a growing need for maintenance. Of course, all of us in this room know that the past decade has been carefully preserved. Of course, we know some of the reasons why this is so. But I don't think they've held all this time. I let myself refer to apathy, unfortunately--it's best to say things just as they are, at least Like I'll experience them. It is an ongoing lack of interest in transport funds when it comes to talking about the exchange of money. I'm just going to go back to the messages sent to the transport program that were proposed at the beginning of the autumn Council of Transport. I've been through the time frame that was enlightened and the vision of the government. Apparently, it was acceptable that the Smokey Way would not be finished, the Southland Road would not be finished, and the Western road would not be finished. But it's just so much more than that. Today's debate has largely gone through these radicals into the capital, but we are talking about this plan - and again: This does not involve criticism of how a secretary of transportation ordered down the limited financial resources he was given in a financial program. However, the remaining projects: You saw that the Westerners were still on foot roads, which were dirt roads, and could even be interpreted as roads of dust on chapters, after 15 to 20 years. The situation is that on the road west, truckers have to put chains on their cars until summer if it rains, so that they don't slide down mud. Of course, that is not an acceptable situation. This is crazy. I allow myself to state that no senator would have allowed himself to accept the transport program, as it was submitted here in the fall. There would have always been some kind of effort. One of those ways, and the one at the top of this work, is an export that is involved in introducing a system of moderate roads to spit very thoroughly into the palms of the hands. In this context I have always maintained it, and I think I'll allow myself to tell a lot of others - and then - then. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça is on the committee sheet of the greater part, which, in effect, says that humans will, of course, be, and that opinion is I, to go back with this general delivery of traffic. I'll have to say that no more talks have been held in this hall since I entered the council, than I do that the drivers of the country and traffic in general are emancipated mail. Although we take a lot of respect out of the film, if we look at the tax pay available to the state by automobiles and traffic, less than half will go to build up and maintenance the road system. Of course, that's a decision. This was not just a one-time incident. This has developed in this way over a long period of time. I would have been the first to say: "Hey, cool, let's just negotiate that every tax pay from your vehicles and traffic goes to the road system and transportation system for five years, ten years. Then we'll be able to get our tails on a regular basis. We can build up the major projects needed to take place, and we can get network and museum roads in the same time as we support national flights and public transportation where it is necessary. But there's just no mood for it in here. We saw it only in the waste - I see why. Friðbertsson A look that I know I'd be pleased with in these discussions. But when I say that this isn't a factor, I allow myself to claim that even if I were to be with them, we would not receive more of a chamber of Congress. Then we're in a place where we have to look for solutions. Thus, we are in a rural area in terms of the payment of this majority list that can solve much of the problem we face. But there are also other factors to consider when this bill is highest. A secretary of transportation arrives here in March or April or whenever it arrives, this time, this spring council. Me and what. paritaprevir The Independence Party Oli Björn Kálán has spoken of how a government dealer could enter a business like this, a financial or financial donation based on how it is viewed. That's how I understood the minority opinion of the committee - why. paritaprevir If I am mistaken - but in the minority view, on page 24 - then I am corrected by Katrín Friðriksson's son. 2 Under Security, which refers to the range of savings that can be achieved by applying the road system to the location we are looking at in these cases, says the President: ▪... or simply by taking into account the national benefits of the projects. The improvement, according to preliminary figures, will pay up the project in less than a decade... I agree with this. I'm gonna let myself read into it for a while. Councilmen who respect the memory of the part are saying there: This is an expeditation of shades, which actually means that other government funds are being taken into account to achieve such improvement. It would be closer to the fact that these funds were introduced to the public society that is holding up the work by financing, either from the social security system or from the health system, i.e. The savings would be done there. But because we all live in the real world, that is unlikely to be the result. It is unlikely that people in general will be able to provide financial support for the social security and health systems of some couple of billions of people each year, although it is easy to prove that the savings will appear there by these largely improved translucencys, especially here in the vicinity of the capital. But I just wanted to say this in order to have in mind that it comes from many directions, the economy and the next savings. Walking up to those projects is a commercial thing. Let's face it in the order of my mind, of course, the need to get going, just to change rhythms in terms of recent development, to change the beat completely. Because what was added in the five - year financial program estimated to be 13.5 billion for the first three years and then 7.8 in the year four and five are far from sufficient, and I am not going to repeat the talks I have had in mind. In addition to the large - scale traffic flows and increased safety here at the southwest corner, there is a number of other factors involved. I'm going to allow me to read here, with the permission of the President, the section which is the most important part of the Committee to specify as a treatment section where space will be created to take place much earlier than it would have been. In some places, schoolchildren peer through school trucks day in and day out. I'll allow me to mention the Waters Road in that context. But on page 18. 7 The article mentioned that most should be mentioned, with the permission of a president: ◯... Forest Coast Road, Laxáry Road, Waters Road, Jack Valley Road, Gilséásástéstóndtttir, Safjörgil, Eyjafjörður Road, Garðður-Sandi, Þingalval Road, Woodenhola, road around the citynes, and Innland Road. These are just a few of the ways that space can be made, so to speak, have the courage to take this step now, which I think would be a success. Then we also mention two places in which we feel that there is room to make a significant improvement in what would be considered fragile. By permission of the President, the majority suggest: ...that there will be a special delay in the implementation of two perimeters, i.e. Coastal and Langanes settlements along the northeast corner along the way through the hunting neck of placebo and the improvements in Longanes Coast as well as the construction of the Breckles River. These are issues that are of utmost importance to the areas in there, and we in this room know that these projects will not be carried out on the basis of traffic numbers or any of the like. It is only a political decision to support these areas, but it will not be taken unless there are funds to go to the project. In my first talk, I would like to include a discussion on the committee and how the matter of payment turns on me. There's a big misunderstanding that we're in this discussion.......financing the charges, that's not the way it is. We're opening on - this is a prince's decision - another kind of funding other than government funding, and it's being made to have to take place first. Then comes the application of what needs to be done in good peace and cooperation. Well, I may be too optimistic to talk about good peace, men can certainly have different opinions on this, but at least in good cooperation here within the council. In that discussion, of course, things like whether it's right to change property that the State has today into an investment, whether we should, as I understand why. Congress members of the minority opinion are looking for a shadow - price route based on the economy and savings achieved by this new approach. That's what's left of it. There has been a long history of perpetuation. She was in action when the person here was assistant to the transport minister 2003-2006 and she's been running, I think, ever since. The head of the majority opinion, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, mentioned earlier at the office of the former Chief of Staff. A minister, Kristján Möller, would have had this job going on when he was a travel minister during 2007,2009. So this has been an ongoing discussion, how this will be handled best. I think what matters most is that users of the road system will not be able to find themselves in the position that these charges, if they result, and then carefully implemented, will be a clean additional fee. I think we need to look for ways to cut down on the general payment, the public taxation on the traffic, because it's enormous. In particular, it bites those who need to use the transportation system severely. Because of what? paritaprevir Of course, Katrín Friðriksson's son is looking at me, so the cost - well. A senator came into this office earlier that she believed that a higher proportion of income from this would be spent in the country than here in the capital area. [[Up front.]] Yes, but it is, of course, that country's cost, a considerable one, comes from attending all the central services that are built up here in the capital area. So they need to look at the whole thing, and I don't think we'll have any problem working on it on the Committee. There are a few more things I would like to mention. The time will be reduced to one end, and I expected to take more factors from the next talk. But I just want to be quick here at the end of the report of my great pleasure in the flight of this committee. There have been chapters of flight, excuse the wording, out - of - date in these materials. After he wakes up, he's been interested in the roads. I think this opinion highlights the importance of the flight, based on a fine report that controls a group as a function. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson was president of the industry; and again, a discussion of the strength of the international flight, and so on. I think that this view of the greater part and the change in the transport program will result in flying, especially the domestic flight, very beneficial, and I would like to express my special satisfaction with it. Then I'm gonna, to make the world happy. President, finish my speech here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For good advance, the three - tribe Bergþór of Ólason, who covered his vision of the matter. Hv. A senator says that we are opening up our discussion on charges of perpendition, and this is not possible, as it has been. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator realizes that this opening could include some sort of mixed funding instead of funding all three roads in and out of the capital area only by taxation, as is certainly the case in an imperfect act? Is any of the things we've mentioned inside the picture, e.g. sale of state estates, memory of the reimbursement of state funds, which would be supported by the economic profit, for it certainly comes clearly into the books, as it were. A senator went over, that Obscurial thing? [[The president calls.]] Does it mean that the next few weeks and months would be used to discuss things that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the discussion made it very clear that it is expected that the transport secretary's bill will be submitted. The date of March has been called. I think that the princely decision we must take now is really a prerequisite for that work to take place and be of some sense. I think it's a very exciting option to watch the transformation of state property, as an example of Iceland's bank sale. Part of the product of such sales go into, let's call it Sale 2, just to make a konsept around the public society. I think it would be an interesting situation to look at. This may result in both increasing the performance and reducing the need for road costs. My review of the Obscurial charges is that I would be very interested in the implementation of them, but I think it will be reversed within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u107	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Only in the same vein: The speech was made clear. The senator's importance is that we here view the whole country as a whole, taking into consideration different needs and positions. That's what they're trying to do. Then the interests of each individual may vary in proportion, but this is the way it happens. I'd like to hear a point of view. Senator. We've been able to deal with whether these are road charges, i.e. user fees, or taxation. In my case, I have reasoned that taxation is being done in such a way that if this becomes the case, if it becomes the case, all three strains will be financed by means of road charges so that there will be no land or coast in or out of the city without paying, without being any other means, and at the same time, the percentage of taxes from driving vehicles will be reduced into this same area. I really want to hear what I'm thinking. It's for a senator. This is one of the things that humans bite about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u108	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for another answer. I think it's necessary to approach this, based on the fact that all the tracks are under at the same time. As to whether they're fully funded by charges, I direct them in my previous answer. This may be the case if the result is to place some sort of stock or personal resources in the public community. That's in my mind. There was another point. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u109	Whether this is taxation, the only option has been made...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u110	- Right on. I have to admit that I've been there since I've been inside our high council paying a vote against all the tax promotions he's been taking to us in connection with a financial debate. I think it's a quick fee. If you pay, you'll have a direct profit. I'm willing to reason on it a bit, but not so much as to label it as a tax, not so far. [[The president calls.]] I could, however, come to the conclusion that a better thought is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u111	A respectable president. There has been some discussions about the urgency of the situation. Environmental and Transport Committee. Hv. Senators have taken it, like a dog. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir put it before it, the decision in one week, and was to be pushed through without any preparation. Hv. A senator is the chairman of the Allied Environment and Transport Committee, which was during the fall when these issues were discussed. I'd like to ask him to confirm that my understanding is correct, that even though there were some discussions in this matter, especially between the smaller members, at the time, and that general support was in order to continue the case. I just got that message to tell the highest. Environment and transport secretary that land would be among the smaller sections to establish a solidarity on this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u112	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The discussion was, as I came in earlier, had been through the passage. I believe that taxing or some kind of quick or user fees were discussed in one form or another at all meetings where the transport program was discussed. It was a special presentation of ideas. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Árnason's son, if I recall correctly, held the 20th of October, so it was very prominent in the committee. I can confirm that I had it. An authorityman, Jón Gunnarsson, told me that I felt that my conversations could be achieved or satisfied with this approach. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u113	A respectable president. This is a very important part of the discussion because something else has been said here. That is shocking, even though we respect the confidentiality of the state of what is being said and done, at least by members of the committee meetings, that people do not recognize it. It has been repeated in talks that this has been very shameful and should be eliminated. Another factor that has been considered is the justification of the currency if there is another way, as in the Hagland Way. I remember that I and what. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee discussed how far it would be to go before the Whaleland of the West, as an alternative to the Halfjörður tunnel, and if it wasn't as if you were leaving the Southnes or Southland to take the South Coast road and the Krysavík route. Is that not why an alternative is equivalent in this discussion, as was the Half - a - day tunnel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u114	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I have considered the discussion that there is a need for other means to be there for some misunderstandings. I gave a talk in a question to the highest degree. A secretary of transportation, if I recall correctly, some months ago where I crossed the possibility that the definition would always fall wrong. Drives were taken to Hafnar in the Hornfjord before the ring road was finished. There's always another way. Who's gonna pull the line? How many miles of water must be underneath if there is another way? For those who live on Acdéri, e.g. and work in Reykjavík, it is not an alternative way to drive the Whale Land each day with the limited maintenance it has had and the limited winter service it has for the most difficult winter months. There are very few who visited these events at committee meetings. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think this is a key.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u115	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me that this is a system change in the transport of the people as never before, whether by country means or by flying in the air and by flying in the whole country, which is extremely important. This government has often been criticized for not changing its systems. It is abated and torn over here during the long days, but in this discussion, no one speaks of the huge system changes being made to strengthen our country's transport system and the means to reach its targets in the situation we are in and how to finance it through user expenditures. It really is the theme of all this. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that this is where we're going to have a system change, based on user fees and seeing for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I was just trying to explain myself. the system changes you see in this job. As I came in with them, it didn't take me time to review the flight issues, so I'll do it in my next speech. Of course, I'm very interested in them, but the 20 minutes have passed quickly. Of course, I could get some outside joke now that this government, which is often said to go primarily on defending the chairs and not being interested in changing, has finally managed this under the leadership of a central class member of the Environment and Transport Committee. I see that Senator is pleased with that answer. But as far as the question is concerned, it's really a system change. Most of us are in this room, what seems to agree that transportation needs a lot of effort. Then, as I declared in my speech earlier, I am very pleased with that work and the position that lies in connection with the environment of the flight. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u117	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on public transportation and the definition of them, what ideas he has on how we define public transport in order to serve the more distant parts of Reykjavík. I came into it earlier today; bus to Akureyri 7 hours and 15 minutes, to Eglish Status; and from Reykjavík, it's 12 mouse 14 hours. What's the sensation? A senator for the discussion of public transport involved in this aspect? In the view of the smaller parts, it seems that public transportation is somehow the password, but you don't get the definition clearly. A senator on public transportation. I think we need more detailed definitions and maybe go through this here at Congress, where people are going to set the limit when they talk about real civilization. Is it already possible to go between places in the bus?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u118	Madam President. Of course, it is fast to answer, going from Reykjavík to Egress, or what to say. A senator, nine hours to Akureyri?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u119	7 and 15.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u120	Of course, it's public transportation that most people don't accept, so I'll put it gently. Of course, it is one of the aims of a transport program, and it has been since 2005, I think it is, I may have to correct that number of years, but not for many years, people should have the option to get to the capital, where all central services are built at 3.5 hours with different transport methods. It starts with running, e.g. Those who fly from Egress, drive somewhere off the beaches to Egls, fly to Reykjavík, and that is, according to the fact that this time is up to a maximum of 3.5 hours. Of course, public transportation in which it will take 12 mouse 14 hours to get out of the country by bus or bus is something that most people will not accept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u121	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason for his excellent speech and the subject of that speech. This is a great matter of my heart, transportation. Now, when we discuss transportation, normally, it will always be a great deal of heat. Each road out of our home is the way home of all of us who live in this country. Now it is especially heat because of the cost, the currency route, and where the money comes from. Then I'd like to bring in the senator, for there's a lot of confusion in the public over how the cost will be paid by these projects that are being thought of here, how we calm the agitation to make more peace with them. [[The president calls.]] A minute is way too quick to pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u122	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson's answer. It is true that a minute is passing quickly, but now I have two things better for some reason. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] There it went. I think that it is necessary to look to that, as I came into my speech, and, in this way, was in a material way discussed on the committee and presented in advance. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, looking to take steps back in terms of public currency on traffic, which is very high in our community. On the other hand, it's the answer, but it's possible solutions to the transfer of state estates, such as to form and form. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson has been talking for inspection. In any case, the key point is that the currency will be very moderate and implemented so that electrical charge will be available for those using multiple currency measures, e.g. every day and so along the streets, and that the bath will be clear and tangible for those using the road system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u123	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. The point is that we need to speak very clearly in this regard in order to reduce the feeling of uneasiness. We know the story of the transport discussion. It has been this way over the years that some money has been given away and that it has become an argument over which road to go. But what beats me in this idea is that this is a whole plan, and there will be some time frames for each action, so that today's agitation mainly turns to the expense side. What the senator entered, discounts, and so on, sounds very good to me. I think our experience with the Halfland tunnel and other such has been very good. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that these preparations make the country quieter when it comes to construction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u124	Madam President. I think you're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson, however, there are limits to how clearly one can speak only because the bill intended to frame this in is not made until March if it is used as the highest date. The secretary of transportation appeared earlier today and has been introduced to the Environment and Transport Committee, so we aim for it. I can tell myself that now I've been driving through the Hagular tunnel for years and that company that I was the manager for before paid a huge tax on or off. It must be felt that the benefits are considerable. In this context, it is both time savings, fuel savings, safer roads, and a better flow, so it is multiple, but the key is not to experience that this is an additional charge when a very taxed group of drivers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u125	The President wants to charge the conduct of a man. At the beginning of the talk, the members of the Council of the Ævarsdóttir Avjörvar and Björn Leví of Gunnarsson. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason earlier. At the same time, the president would like to remind us of the words of the former president of the council who were told at a similar occasion in the Assembly Hall of November 2012 when he said that an incident of this nature was inappropriate and that in this hall people expressed their viewpoints and attitudes from the chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u126	Madam President. I'm coming up to take my case. Hv. Councilmen have chosen to go to some strange expedition, on the one hand, to impress the members of the committee's sleep session so that they will be taken into account. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son as well as not keeping track of meetings throughout the fall when the new Jón Gunnarsson and his partner were introduced to the Committee in early October. The one listed here is making a presentation very detailed at each meeting, but it's not on the phone, unlike some senators, or dots, as other members of Congress without any names being mentioned. So I want to bear them because of me that I have been sleeping on one side, and I did not notice when the most independent policy of transportation began. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason and what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son was introduced to the committee on November 20th.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u127	A respectable president. Given the occasion, I would like to mention that I used this expression once before because of questions. A senator to me following my talk and presentation of the committee's list of parts on transport. The questions were, of course, a indication of why. A senator would not have been watching for meetings recently held in the committee. The answers to those questions and the loopholes that contained the questions could not indicate otherwise. Yeah, I asked you a question. The chairman of the Committee for the matter under discussion on this matter, given the grounds, for the reason of the matter. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, that it had been brought up and done over in one week, if it was right that I had been sent that message to give the highest order. Ministers to have a firm foundation in the smaller section to complete the case on the suggestions that had been provided for introductions and discussions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was confirmed by the wind. A man might see what is happening to him. A senator was speaking against a better awareness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u128	Madam President. I'd like to start by coming up to figure out what. A senator from the fact that it seems that the members of the greater part do not agree on how to resolve matters when they nod out depending on who is asked, is whether all tunnels in Iceland should be impacted or not, and when asked whether to lay on road taxes for energy exchanges and tax charges for certain projects. Depending on who is spoken to in the greater part, what answers you receive. It's just that it's been that way and it's been all along, and that's how it's been on the committee too. Regarding what the head of the Committee has possibly spoken in two people - I wish that it would be. A senator listens to what is said here - says the chairman of the two - man committee. I can't be responsible. I can't be responsible for his words to other senators or other people in town. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that there was no agreement of the smaller part on one thing or anything. [[The president calls.]] It's not true. That's what he's gonna have to do with himself. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe it's all right. A senator goes to speak with other senators instead of... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u129	Madam President. I'd like to say just right now, because of what. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, mentioned that a presentation took place on the 20th of November, that I suspect I had said it occurred on October 20th, and I confirmed that the presentation was held on November 20. This does not change the presentation as a question, though. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was not a member of the Committee during the last half of the council. As I say, I have not listened to my own talk but have suspected of saying the 20th of October, which was supposed to be November 20th. I just wanted to share it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u130	Madam President. On the basis of this, I feel compelled to come up here and refuse that this will be discussed with the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, why. paritaprevir Bergetheth Bergþór of Ólason, was commissioned to carry the message to the greater part that the lesser part agreed with this journey and that it was over its head to bear such a message. I find this really strange, considering it shouldn't be the night. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson no secret how the mind of the part, at least part of him, has existed to this matter in the last few weeks. It would have been a slow game when he came to a meeting to ask further questions about it if there had been any question. I'm here asking myself to deliver my own message, if they're wanted on another level, and I'm going to come up here and prove what I think of a particular subject. This presentation, a good thing it's been accomplished and corrected, took place on November 20th. It was requested because we thought it was quite awkward that, while the committee was sitting and discussing the transport program, the members of the Independence Party of the Committee were traveling through the country to introduce their ideas. [[The president calls.]] So we simply asked to get this presentation to know what was discussed there. [[The president calls.]] [[Take it up: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u131	A respectable president. Right away. People are coming here to talk about others playing false stories about them or lying, and I feel compelled to object at once. The Environment and Transport Committee has discussed some other transport plans than we're discussing here today. I don't see a Senate document on any other transport program. There are no Senate documents to do that. I don't know what it's like to have produced any other means of transportation, so it's just a bunch of loopholes from those who accuse others of pimps, so it's totally clear. It is true, however, that I have spoken to certain ideas. I've had certain presentations and brought them to a environmental and transport committee and only probably. But I'd also like to point it out, since it's about when the discussion started on the committee, to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers ordered a team of workers at the beginning of the last year, about a year, on charges. Shortly thereafter, the head of the Committee, the Administrative Eyjólfur of the Árni of Electricsson, introduced its proposals to the Environmental and Transport Committee, which is a year since the Environment and Transport Committee began to discuss these issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u132	A respectable president. As I read in the work of the Committee, there was no charge or charge of any kind until the power of the committee's mention came down to the lower parts. Until then, it was just the ideas of independence - okay, technically it did not handle transportation, but in everyday terms it is called and it is not wrong to have it that way. It wasn't until then, in December, maybe someone will know the exact date, I know I have the date on December 11, but it might have been only earlier. In fact, that was when we knew that there was some serious charge behind a transport plan. It began then and completely surprised us. The rest is just a general debate about what we think about charges, which are very interesting, but there was nothing serious behind them until the opinion of the committee came along. Then we had to start talking and call for comments on this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u133	Madam President. It is clear to all the people that if you are going to set a road tax, as proposed in this committee, you need to talk about it. Everyone in the country wants to be able to participate in that discussion. All the members who sent in reviews of this did not know how this implementation by the greater part of the environment and transport committee was. They just didn't know anything about it, didn't know anything about the final transfers. The minority didn't know it either, so it's just a classic freckley bitch. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, sitting right here in the hall. This also took place during the last or last term, when he was chairman of the employment committee, he receives a pact proposal for priming, one option, change, and treads lots of others into the Senate resolution. It may be easy to say that the same synonym is the same, but it just puts new activation options into it. In this case, he receives a transport program and completely treads new expenditures of currency, taxes, or fees on the people into his majority proposals, which will then pass through here. [[The president calls.]] It's a classic freckle-calling bitch at Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u134	A respectable president. There's a second round here. for a long term transport program on a committee committee. There is a detailed perspective along with a change in a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, which is the opinion and proposed changes I support. Then I too supported and shared in making adjustments. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson set out for the day. 890. The nominee is a proposal for the resolution of a five-year transport programme for 2019◯023, which is a plan of action. The Commission then deals with the proposal to consecrate transport programmes for the 2019-2333 period, and that is the 15 - year plan. I'm going to start with killing on a number of things, both in the Commission opinion and in the suggestions they made in the fall. In summary, the contribution of the majority of the Committee is due to the proposed minor changes in implementation for 2019 and 2020, leading primarily to changes in the progress of the road generation. In addition, proposals are offered to continue working on transport expenditure. There is no suggestion on the extraction, which is what I'm about to start reading, but I have to take a little more time to find it. I'd like to be surprised by the misunderstanding presented in some cases about the President's conference board. Although more money is being given in transportation than ever before, visitors met up with the committee that it was not enough. If we are to reach an acceptable location for security, environment, transportation, and transport, we must find ways to speed up projects in the coming years. This means that there are other methods of financing other than those currently available. As I have previously stated from this platform, I do not get tired of achieving that transportation is important and affecting everyone. They are the largest community, as well as health, education, welfare, environment, culture, and employment. In fact, for decades we have been focusing on ever improving transport across the country, I believe that one of the important reasons that we have made a success of building up the well - being we live in here is the only reason we have been able to live in this country. The plan we are discussing was and is fully funded in financial planning and more money is estimated to the road system than ever before. Yet, the conclusion of conversation with the members of the Committee is that there are too many years until we reach an acceptable location in the maintenance and innovation of the road system. In fact, no matter what part of the land, territory, or roads are considered. The work of winter has taught me that we have to find ways to travel faster than financial resources allow us to do so, and for this, there is certainly more than one way. When a transport program was submitted, the secretary of transport, including the secretary of transport, was introduced. working on a full reimbursement of the road system and estimated that the transport bill would be submitted by spring. In these policies it is important to focus on the overall picture, the impact of energy exchange, the ways to speed up progress and control traffic. We are at a critical milestone, and it is important that we discuss these events at the same time. The export is so important that there will be equality and transparency in the implementation and use of funds, as well as technical instruments. It is important, then, that public and possibly specific remuneration, such as taxation, do not add a charge to individuals beyond the benefits that individuals enjoy from better roads. Over it went wrong. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson very well. When reimbursement is completed, new transport plans and rapid implementations, now in the second and third periods according to priorities in the 15 year schedule, and when projects associated with the urban line have been prioritised, both those already planned and those who may be added. In the Committee, the more part will depend on the purpose of the transport plan, i.e. The aim of transportation to be easy, safe, economic and environmental sustainable and clear targets for positive urban development was not established by the Committee to criticize those objectives. Visitors before the committee were unanimous about the need for action and maintenance in all groups of roads. A accumulated problem would be great and insist that the speed of construction be exceeded. Iceland is populated, and the road system is extensive, and its structure has always been much behind neighboring countries. The overall need for investment is 3,350,400 billion. Of course, we have to look for a number of tourists to be multiplied in recent years as well as for the development and development of industry to require more use on the road system. Work territory is increasing, and urban areas are increasing. Therefore, I believe that there will be a rapid response to the problems that have been raised over the past few years, and I have been determined to improve the road and transportation system as rapidly as possible in terms of the practicality, climate targets, equality and safety issues. It has been noted that according to Iceland's Economic Institute for Economic Growth, economic growth declines as early as this year. Thus, there are ideal conditions to enter the infrastructure and thereby build up for progress in social and economic affairs in the country. I'm going to keep further coverage on the road system and I'm gonna go to public transportation and start there on the city line. As we have seen, we are at a critical time. We are developing significant changes in transport, and as reflected in a special discussion of the city line last week, there has been extensive agreements between the state and the local community in the capital area to shape plans for the forward development of transportation in the capital area. Certain stages have been reached in the work together, and there is a declaration of will, but more work is ahead of us. Travel habits have been changed so that more people use public transportation, wheels, or walk more automobiles, however, by 24% to 2033. If travel habits do not change much more, or up to 40%, the transport rate will increase. Thus, it is very important for all who travel across the capital area to develop a transport system that ensures easy and secure traffic with the least environmental impact, regardless of the way humans choose. This requires a definition of road transport with the emphasis on public transportation, walk-and-wheel footpaths, as well as the car traffic. All these routes need to be well connected between areas and those of the stockways outside the capital. Public transport in the country must form a unit on land, in the air, and at sea. The city line is a basis for real choice of public transportation in the capital area, i.e. there is a high quality system separated from another traffic. In order to meet the need for further changes in transport programmes, it is certain that the planning and implementation needed between 2019 and 2020 will ensure that cooperation can provide further definitions of the project, common objectives and funding will be implemented in order to achieve further priorities, which would then be ready for a further review of transport plans later in this year. But then public transportation outside the capital area. It was noted to the Committee that great noises were on the implementation of public transport within and between parts of the country. In my opinion, that situation has lasted as long as the oldest men will, since we tried to establish public transportation. In 2012, treaties between the road generation and the national part of the network began to allow them to receive the money previously set aside in the districts to organize public transport in their part of the country. The work was widely carried out, and the number of passengers increased by about tens of them. As progress continued, the business began to grow quickly, and they have been growing. The number of passengers has decreased as a result of lack of financial resources and problems has been observed, including ... whereauthority has not been established, and other operators have actually blown a cream off the road and have been missing the system all over the country. Thus, the entire organization has issued its contract, but temporary resolution has been completed in 2019 and the development of a complete policy in land, air, and sea transport is now being developed. That is the key to building a future arrangement. One of the possibilities that the national part of the network has been considering is the willingness to establish one common society to hold on to public transport in the national stocks. A new arrangement is scheduled for the next year. It was explained to the committee's meeting of the importance of national flights to Northern, Eastern, and Western countries. A greater proportion of them will agree with the aim of a transport program that allows citizens of the country to reach the capital area over about three and a half hours of integrated travel time. Then I'm just gonna get in touch with my country partner and the Road Make-up. It was found that relationships between road generation and rural society need to be established in a fixed format so that specific protocols will be established in order to ensure close consultation between the road generation and rural society in order to prioritate projects, plan and implementation, agreed on the requirements for e.g. Service, such as snowcapped, slippery, and deep watering projects at ports, and other factors might be counted. Part of what has been said there is that road service in most of the rural areas is really not the same as getting people into the urban area without exception. A lot of traffic security has been discussed in connection with priorities, but traffic security is all over the top of the section and is being discussed. I'd like to introduce a point of view about the safety of young traffic that we received a special presentation on, that it was worth considering the way drivers are taking their first steps in traffic, going on their way to high school. There are many dangerous places where youths have been gathering. We received young advice from the Southnes, who discussed the subject with us, and this was an interesting discussion. This made it clear that winter service is a key factor in the traffic security of this group, as well as the driving of all other groups. The majority agree on traffic security. Also, I would like to agree with the 15 - year plan to ensure the correct and consistent registration of transport accidents, which I believe are significantly lacking. Much is yet to come, but the talk period is getting shorter. I think I'll take the next flight. The number of flights in Iceland has increased over a few years, so air security has never been more important and much more important to us than just a short time ago, such as the setting for teaching flights in which a growing group operates on flights in Iceland. There has been an extensive development at the Cheflaví airport, but there has been significant reductions in donations for building at other airports. To ensure their ability to serve as a reserve airport for a growing flight to and from the country, therefore, it is very important to improve the network of international airports. At the beginning of December 2018, the task force returned a report. The group was assigned to offer suggestions to change the management of international flights with the aim of achieving a more efficient international approach and a more efficient flight route management, which yields to consumers. At the same time, a proposal to make the international flight a practical advantage for the inhabitants of the country and to continue to be inhabited throughout the country. In short, the committee agrees with the suggestions offered by the staff and suggests that adjustments are made in the direction of their implementation. It consists of the international airports, the Cheflavour Airport, the Eagle Island Airport, and the Lampground Airport being defined as a system of flights with a common base of cost, and Isavia entrusted financial responsibility for operating, maintenance, and building. By doing so, Istavia can contribute and collect services according to the financial cost of the system's operation. The Ministry of Transport and Regional Affairs should initiate a discussion with Istavia about changes in the service contract taking into account the new arrangements and measures needed, such as increasing the volume of the flying system while maintaining the required service level. At the same time, negotiations between the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs will be rejected for the shape of the Istavia ownership policy as agreed by the government's agreement. That approach, I think, is very important. At the same time, the new management structure of these flights has to lead to the maintenance and renewal of the 2020-2023 projections on the international airport and other flying systems in the bases where maintenance and renewal have become urgent, including the need for a return to the network. Based on safety considerations. It is also important to find ways within the Istavia service contract to respond to the need for superficial maintenance and to increase the need for the reception of passengers on a international flight to Akureyri. This needs to be done immediately this year. Then, in the opinion of the committee, what is actually presented in the program, as it was suggested, is that Reykjavík's airports need to be maintained and built up to the point that he performs the role he requires in a safe and acceptable manner until a comparable reconstituted solution is found, transporting the airfield from the Hydrosm. Then, as mentioned earlier, it is important to connect the airport to other public transportation. The structure of the national airport can contribute to the growth of the distribution of tourists across the country. It enhances the facilities for teaching, guarantees many security, such as by means of a medical flight, and in other ways. It is finally time for a talk. In the next talk, I will include. deals with subsidies on domestic flights and road projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u135	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. There's something else I'd like to ask. A senator in. I'll start by asking who. A senator is aware that on December 4 of the past, at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee, she and another member of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, that some members of the smaller section accompany them up to the Ministry to help process changes in transport plans or implementation of policy-making ideas. She is aware that it took place at the meeting and that the one standing here could not have gone to that job because she had other jobs to be in charge of the Board of Directors and Observers the following day, where there was an organized meeting. For word's sake. A senator's loss of passengers in public transportation after lack of financial support would I like to ask: Do the majority have a vision of the future of public transportation in Iceland? I can't tell by the commission, I just see that there's talk of public transportation on the land in 2019 C.E. In terms of the importance of public transportation, do they have a vision regarding ways to improve public transport? How's that? A senator's proposal to promote public transportation in neighboring communities so that those who need to go to the capital area every day for study and work can then get subsidies on public transportation? I would also like to ask a few questions about the pressures of roads. - I'll put that up in a second answer. I'd like to ask you something about a vision. A senator and some of the rest of the stuff about public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u136	A respectable president. Of course, I and others in the greater part of the world have a vision of public transportation. The extraction process is being carried out, as I went on to do, in cooperation with the Country Association and the State. I have always felt that it is a key factor that it is done in the cooperation of these parties. But in the same way, I disagreed greatly with the fact that each part of the country was actually to be used by its systems without the overall picture being seen. I think it was one of the big suits in the first place. It is true that great victories have been won, and much positive changes have been made, but it is far in the country to connect transportation to land, air, and uterus. That's the big job. In the program itself, it was presented as part of a smaller view of the subject, but I hadn't looked it up before I arrived in the speaker's package. But if we go back to the meeting on December 4th, then. Then they had a meeting on how to complete the project, a discussion on the transport program. A discussion was made between the senators who were ready and who would be interested in making suggestions and committees. It did not particularly turn to the charges; it turned to all that lay before it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u137	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer but reiterates my question: How does it feel? A senator's proposals for my share of the environment and transport committees are about paying special transport supplies or public transportation maps for those who have to go to work, study or health care in the nearest community, so to speak? Of course, we look a little bit at the southwest corner, i.e. in the South, Southnes, West, because its inhabitants have to attend this service in the capital area, this is one industry area. How's that? Is there a suggestion for a measure of intensive injection on public transportation? And then it's my question about laying down a fart in Iceland's tunnel. Then I will ask only what order should be valid, how shall there be equal between the inhabitants of the land. Why should there be some segregation and others not? And why is it not mentioned in the committee that they should fall, but that funeral expenses should remain? However, it is specifically said that road charges should cease once something has been paid up. I'd like a little explanation from what. A senator: What is the difference between walking and walking?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir answers. If I start with the public transportation, of course, they're already subsidized. That's what the government does. It's about subsidizing public transportation. In that respect, I'm all for it. On the other hand, it is one of the opportunities being implemented for this cooperation, whether it will be altered or how the cost of operating is divided into countries. One problem was the fact that certain groups of older citizens, disability, and students were greatly reduced by national groups, and in the end it was the only group that used the transportation. This is part of the problem that this assignment had to face. But to Iceland's funeral. If I just read the text from the Committee opinion, with the permission of a president: According to further implementation, it may be paid for in Iceland by means of roads, with exceptions to which it is decided. Land tunnel payment is intended to be performed under the services and management of the soils, to be served, to serve as a service and to do business, and not to be permanent - a bigger money than the corresponding length of the foundation, as well as to share in the new buildings. The budget will be part of a new land tunnel program, which would be part of a transport program with the purpose of no interruption in the construction of a tunnel. The schedule will also specify which tunnels fall under payment and for how long. That's where the rough lines are just being laid. All the wires, but then. It is based on equality and translucency, so in part it depends on how to organise currency in order to promote equality and transparency in the overall picture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u139	A respectable president. I'm very interested in the committee party of the greater part, and I'd like to thank you very much. The members of Vilhjálmur Árnason and Anna Sævarsdóttir for working hard on the changes presented there, on the hurrying of projects, etc., despite their being a little late. It may have been the main problem, it was very late in the ass trying to pull us in at the beginning of December to get to the job of adding this project. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the section Faced by Remuneration - the section that has been discussed since then: Is it necessary to have this section in the committee's opinion? True, very often the committee directs various recommendations to a minister, but it is very general. This chapter, on the budget of payable roads, is very accurate and there is counsel to minister on how to manage the funding of this additional enterprise. It's a very accurate and, in fact, the value of a synonym, according to my opinion. That's a lot of it. Instead, the majority of the committees encourage ministers to bring these additional projects and finance the policy of the government or the like. Here, however, are some of the members of the council and the majority of the committee's guidelines on how to do this. I wondered, " Is it necessary to have it in the committee opinion how a minister should conduct and finance these additional projects? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I would like to begin by saying that I have never participated in a case's release, was an executive, or participated in the work of committee opinion, which has been as much as long as in progress or in the coverage of the committee. It's just a fact. However, the question is, Has this discussion been necessary so extensively? True, it is always an assessment point, and it is the decision that when writing the Committee opinion, it may be wise to keep this in detail, for despite the fact that the procedure in transport was addressed, she was not really given much discussion or attention to the teacher. In this respect, I think it is very useful for the progress of the currently existing administrative projects that this much discussion has taken place, it will continue to be done. Now I'm here offering the most part of the proposal, falling under the cost of transport, and saying: The implementation of new financing initiatives and the necessary bill needs to be done with the aim of speeding up projects in the programme and creating financial space for new projects. This is the addition to the current transport agenda for the change in financing. I think I already answered that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u141	A respectable president. It reminds me that only in two places are the charges mentioned. On the one hand, it is said. 10: ... looking for a way to finance double-hinheight tunnels in cooperation with private citizens.... But the chapter says: Achieved results in financing of larger projects, including in cooperation with private partners, including An assignment where the State provides funds to secure interest. In this regard, the collection of road fees will be checked where this is possible. It's just a bit, I think, of the right process. If a proposal comes about from a minister in the form of a bill or like it, it will only be treated by Congress. However, in the opinion of the committee here, I believe it is within the count of a conference proposal for Ministers to arrange at least to those projects listed in pay, and to those other projects, such as the tunnel. Understandably, it did not attract much attention to the authorities on the basis of how the road budget in the transport program itself was expressed, for it was just a future problem, but nothing about the need for a reevaluation of a transport plan as early as the fall, there was nothing like that. So maybe this committee had been working on for a very long time. But no, we didn't know anything about it until the beginning of December about what was going on, that it was actually working on a Senate decree, in my opinion, for a minister of precise expedients for specific projects. I believe that such accurate recommendation to a minister does not belong in a committee party, but belongs to them in a special assembly. It's really my question in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Later, the Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson answers. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not going to interpret the position of the committee in any other way, but it contains references from committees. Committees offer recommendations from committees to administration. So surely it is a minister to process what is presented here, along with a number of factors that must be expressed in the work of the task force involved in the implementation process. I would not be surprised if everything presented in the bill later in this council would not be 100% consistent with what is stated in this committee because the implementation to what is practical needs to be done beyond the level of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u143	Madam President. We will discuss a transport plan for the next five years together with a longer schedule. It is not too much to say that transport is burning on the people, since it is obvious that the road system in the land is now under way. When all major projects were delayed, after the interwoven period of 2009•2013, but the fact is that the recession that began on the road was largely uninterrupted until the last year. Thus, because of years of neglect in these and some understandable causes, the situation of the road system is the result. The need for maintenance has grown screaming. The situation may not have been as urgent if at the same time some external factors had not been involved that have caused much more stress on the road system than it had been ten years ago. In recent years, the pressure on the road system has increased over a short period of time as a need for maintenance as well as a greater need for new development. Long ago, it is time to act. So it was a real disappointment when a transport program came to light with the additions made by the government, since the fact was obvious that this was a major failure. In each area, we heard from an environmental and transport committee that the need was so much greater than the plan was to be met. Worldwide, there is a need for improvements, especially on roads around the capital area. The purpose of road users, even for the next 15 years, to drive along narrow roads without a separate drive in and out of the city, where traffic has become so high as it really is, is simply not satisfactory, and it is clear to everyone. Madam President. It is usually this way at the General Assembly that most cases come from the plots where they have been prepared. At the same time, the committees of the Generals deal with the situation, sometimes making improvements. Then the law bill or the resolution goes through the council, in most cases, little change. Actually, the executive, the minister, and the officials of the council are the primary products and conclusions. Thus, at the General Assembly, a talk of products from the council is presented. This is what I've shared, and I did it first in my virgin speech here at the council in December 2017. I believe that to further the initiative of the General Assembly on legislation and that the legislation of the legislature must be increased by the legislatures to provide more efficient implementation of the legislation project. So, in this light, I have to describe my satisfaction as to the procedure carried out by the Environment and Transport Committee of the Parliament in this particular matter. It is hoped that this method of action will prove that the terms of the Generals will be effective and decisive in making a contract between law-employer and Parliamentary procedures from the beginning and the policy presented there. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's why I'm glad to do these things. Madam President. In the circumstances that I have gone over, we were faced with the driving force, allowing the road system to drift on and accept the various urgent transportation improvements, such as completing a double cigarette track from Hafnarfnarfjörður, toward the completion of Westland Roads from Reykjavík through Kjalarnes, and all the way up to the citynes, separating road policies at Seleucuss, building a new Alflur bridge, and many more urgent projects, could be mentioned, would be waited. We saw that all of this would be delayed, and for many years we would be allowed to see it completed. That road users would have to wait for years and even up to 15 years after they had to face a severe challenge was simply not included. So, under the opinion of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee, I made a note of a few things I'm going over below. My captain has said, I support the Commission opinion that, first of all, I think it is necessary to state clearly about the sum of road fees and the implementation of discounters and to place special emphasis on the reduction of the pay on the car owners in conjunction with the recording of road fees. In that case, I don't believe that the funds intended to enter the upcoming national fund are used in order to contribute to transport projects and chemicals such as Long-lasting Sunwalk. Then I also believe in my warning that the product of mass taxation must be avoided by those who have to go through many roadways to attend to form a service to the capital. Cover: A more practical approach must be taken to speed up the rapid improvement in transport. V.E.G. President. In fact, the Environment and Transport Committee directs them to a minister in a more thorough manner to expand more, in a certain way, in general, the policies developed by the Committee, namely. to speed up transport projects by suggesting that they be funded by charges. The reasons are known and virtually unnecessary. I have mentioned the urgent need for road projects with increased safety for all road users. The rapid rate of safety in underprivileged roads is increasing, especially by the multiplication of tourists over a few years. It won't be over much longer. There are also other things. It is estimated, and is used there by statistics at the collected roads from the Hafjörður tunnel, that foreign guests will pay about 40% of the cost of such projects, provided the stream of tourists continues to survive to the country. It should also be noted that in the coming years, energy exchange on the national vehicle supply and the expected increase in electrical vehicles will result in significant reductions in fuel and oil income, even in a short period of time. This has to be done. After the completion of an animal tunnel, a planned stopping of a tunnel is something that will strike down on many settlements on land. All we need to mention is a tunnel to Sufjörður, which is vital for the development of the population, the enlargement of the sector, and the security of the inhabitants of Seydir and visitors there. An acutely necessary geographing must continue. There will be a number of intensive transport projects that will be reassigned to time and space will be obtained through national road repairs. Here are a number of projects that are far too far in relation to the same schedule. I don't want tired listeners to count them all up, but I'd like to mention them, for example. New Elfjörður bridge. It does not have to be explained to the inhabitants of Selephoss and tourists who pass through the river above the Fairy Sea that their efficiency in times of stress is actually dangerous, since police and reactants are not able to get there safely. I've named Smokeynes Way, and I can repeat it, which would be finished sooner than planned. However, there are also many other aspects that open up the possibility of getting ahead of time. The committee's opinion also discusses shortcuts that open up the possibility of funding at least Partly, they are carried out by reimbursement. There are many areas that could benefit from this. I'd like to name Huna Lake County, Hunavall Road. I would like to mention the Valley of Snow, which may also be involved in the soil. This opens up the opportunity to meet the demands of the inhabitants and road users in this country that these projects will be done sooner, the road system will be safer, it will be funded up to half of the people who attend the country. A little more of my advance notice on the committee's opinion, to explain it a little further. The warning is that I stress that in the motion of a minister, where the application of this case will appear in further detail later this year, there will be some consideration such as their avoiding the product of mass taxation, as I say: What do road users need for long distances, e.g. from the Cape of the Horn, or from Bolungarvík, to pay on the great gate? I'm worried about it, and I want to see it better. I think this applies to residents in the urban area as well. The attempt must be implemented so that the payment will be rated to each of the road users. Then, in my pretext, the sum of the roads and the implementation of the discounters is spoken of. Of course, it burns on many people. Based on the information that we have received on the Committee, the common prevalence of users often passing the roadside could be below 200 k. and even as much as 150 bucks. I think it's acceptable, if it happens. But taking into account what I mentioned about the product world, we must be careful about this, such as, within the capital. If road users pass through more than one, two, or even more sides in the capital area, perhaps I think a little bit too much. It must also be clear, and in fact, it is mentioned, that the amount of roads will be determined and their collection will be completed at the end of payment. I think it is very important that the combined stress of road costs will be reduced to car owners. It will be a promise of a decrease in public pay on automobile owners. Of course, it is not acceptable, if we look a few years ahead, for those who may have a fuel truck to pay this double, so to speak, i.e. paying for these regular automobile costs, fuel taxes, oil taxes, export fees, etc., and then paying heavy spells in the form of road taxes. This needs to be balanced in my opinion, so as soon as the tax is taken up, this fixed curse will be reduced so that, if I may mention it, for people who may go a little, rarely, and even go short, that there will be no further curses on that person. This need to be done so that spells do not increase in those who travel within the capital area, e.g. Unable to establish wpa_supplicant wpa_supplicant wpa_supplicantly. They will then be reduced to equal with other expenditures. I also mentioned in my warning that the money they're going to get, and they're pretty desperate to put aside a huge amount of capital in the so-called national funds that upstairs are ideas for setting up, that a part of that money will be originally used for the urgent transportation reforms, such as The transport we have been waiting for for for decades, called Sunwater Road. I think it's perfect. Do we need to put money away in some special national fund? Isn't a government fund loyal enough to keep that kind of money? Why not take your first payments on such a huge project in the capital area? I'm not going to finish my case without referring to one more point, the so - called Scottish way, which I greatly rejoice in. The opinion of the majority of the committees that I sign in advance also suggests a group of workers on the production of the Scottish route, which is designed to cover a certain number of flight expenses for large distances from the capital. This recommendation has been made because over the past few years, so the importance of the capital is growing in all the services. First, there is large hospitals and medical services, which are present at the main location in the capital area. That this corner of the country is constantly piled up by an uncalled administration. Here's all the government agencies and the legal staff of the country. Mr. President. This is a fundamental policy change in the financing of the road system, so a clear reference to the Ministry needs to be made. I believe there is. There are many clear guides that should speed up the work at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He noted the long - awaited Sunday path and repeatedly made it a subject of a wealth of talk. Today, it seems that it does not seem to be the top priority for the city's superiors to attack Dizziness Road. Other matters seem to have captured attention there. It is claimed that various areas in the West are placed in the hands of a private dealer with a sale on the part of the city that reduces its costs and makes the project more difficult and more expensive. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator, who is also a member of the committee during the night. An environmental and transport committee, how he can envision a push-by in view of the inhibitory factors I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u145	Mr. President. More parts in the countryside, and even at the Council, there's not eternal, like what happened. A senator knows. This is not the condition of the human race. Of course, there is a Sunway, and it can be moved, even if it is built in some places. I may not quickly see the answer to that question. A senator I thank, how to press it forward. In various ways, the general body can press on to such things, but the authority of the organization is in the hands of a member of the rural community. We need to wait while there is no response. At any time, the development of the Sunway, at any time, is designed to further the work area as a whole. Like what? A senator knows there are larger settlements, up on Kjalarnes, and in Mosfells, and then, of course, it will increase safety and shorten all travel routes, both to Acdine, to the citynes, and to the north. This is a very important project and something that everyone will benefit greatly if it becomes realized, sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There was another aspect of his case that caught my attention. I agree with him that it is normal to discuss the great need for construction so thoroughly explained in the evidence that lays the basis for the discussion, including the excellent committee, which is, in a sense, a turning point in the matter, that the funds intended for ideological reasons, as explained by the Supreme Court, will be discussed. Secretary of finance, in a so-called National Fund. And it's preemptive. I notice why. The committee's opinion of this subject makes a candidate alert. But if we were to associate with the two factors, it might somehow control the need to cover the lengths to bring up the big, important issues mentioned above. Then we're both talking about the road system, ports, airports, remembering that international flights do not have adequate reserve airports, etc. I'd love to go inside. A member of the council, depending on how he sees this context in relation to the expenses and the national fund. I want to finish my case by saying that as far as the proposal for a national fund might be valid, I allow myself to put a question mark behind the timing of this assignment now that we have had to see that the infrastructure has subsided, part for neglect and part because we suffered a financial shock. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u147	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Ólafur Isle's Ísleifsson failure to ask questions. He's talking about the treasure of a nation that I entered in in my speech and is in my warning. Why should it not be the case when it is a very urgent and targeted project is that such funds, which have not yet come to be realized and not the money, will be transferred in the years ahead to specific projects such as the Sunbed, which I mentioned, are economically very practical and lenient, and linking the workplace much better than it is now. I agree with what. To a certain degree, there is a senator's view of the committee as a turning point. I have not read the history of the Generals so well that I know whether such an accurate opinion has been made against the original proposal, changes substantially from the original viewpoint, and takes a completely different course. I don't know if it's happened on a scale as far as it was this time, but I completely agree with it. In view of the modern - day situation, a senator said that this is a turning point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's speech and his fresh vision of things. Among these, I agree with some of his warnings, recommendations to travel ministers. I just want to stop at the climate, though, because I know they're for him. It is clear on his part that we were paying two fees to those who drive gasoline and oil cars if the road charges had arrived, but not on the driver. Is there any justice in that? Then I say yes, and I'm going to ask him if he disagrees with that, and I realized earlier, that this is an incentive for energy exchange. It is very important that we do this with carbon expenditures and probably later in various ways. In time, we will probably set off a mile - of - a - mile - of - a - mile - in - a - mile [1 km] charge of electric cars. Somehow, they have to enter their reduced cost to the road. So I'm asking, am I right? Isn't that how you're supposed to do it? While humans may call it forced or unjust, we are looking to climate and know that anything that encourages energy exchange is positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. Guðmundsson For the question of whether I agree with him, Sgt. Gudmundsson. I'm not going to answer yes or no, but I'd like to mention that there are huge curses on automobile owners. Such spells are less on electric cars already. It is also a special tax into the fuel, called carbon, that was not raised long ago. All I'm talking about on my orders is that those who own the trucks aren't paid double, but that they pay the dues like the others, and then all the other fees remain unchanged. We're talking a lot of fees. I'm talking about meeting those car owners, so they don't pay, especially those who travel very little, more than they used to. I'm not talking about not to encourage energy exchange, not at all, but I think the difference is enough at the moment. That's enough encouragement already to switch to an electric vehicle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u150	Mr. President. Just back to the case. If we reduce automobile taxes or fuel costs on fuel cars, we are naturally reducing contributions to a transport program, which is the basis for everything. I'm gonna take a little example, the magnitude. Let's take a 10,000-mile-an-mile-a-half-a-mile drive on a payload, on a car that costs a hundred bucks. driving on a mile, like my Subbaru automobile. That'll be 1 million a year for 10,000 miles. Now, let's put the charges on the amount of money. A senator mentioned, 150 k. on average. After 200 trips, it will be 30,000 bucks. It's size gray. I'm not asking you to take it literally, but it's still a size gray for 10,000 miles, considering I'm spending 10,000 miles driving, a million dollars writing and insurance and fuel and all that. So let's make a half quart of gasoline, let's make a 7 minute shortening of driving time, 10% less emissions, and drive a road that's much safer than the other one. That's the benefit of paying these $30,000. These are not curses, but benefits. That's how you have to watch it. This tells me that based on the actual cost of driving, it is not the amount of money that is of enormous importance, that is, not of great importance. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson for the question and riddle, for it was a kind of riddle he brought. He's clearly figured it all out. What a joy it is if we are able to save automobile owners driving through the country! Of course I'm glad to hear it out. Senator. But I don't want to take it as deep as the senator and say it doesn't matter, it's that low. I believe a lot of people feel that the automobile costs are quite high enough in gas cars. I think they're tall enough already. All I'm talking about is that they're going to be reduced to match with the recording of roads, that if you pay twice a year maybe 30,000. the amount on automobile costs will be reduced accordingly. Thus, the spending of an average person who drives about 50 miles [50 km] or something would not increase. But I agree with what. A senator certainly can save on short - term travel and the cost of fuel. I agree with that, and I see that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u152	A respectable president. I'm going to start with a quote from the Government Treaty: In the years ahead, there is room for government property to be used on such projects, in the process of transportation, telecommunication, support systems, and a variety of activities. There was a special high - speed transport program at the beginning of the term, and when you hear the word "great attendance, " you might expect that, compared with other years, there is more to it. It's in the review of the Industrial Association, including... and for others with a common reference to the transport and transport committee, it was found that transport contributions 2019 would be well below the average. 20 years of age, 0.54% but not 0.7% of the average year despite the collapse. When you think of a big offense in terms of it, you must start at least on the average and then add it. When I see what is stated in the Treaty, that it should go to great attendance, I get it so that we start in the average, and then it's more intense, moving on by property. Like what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason made a point earlier in answer to what. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, they are often many years of income, but I can see no better than the fact that property is also a bit of a age. I'd like to go over a few things as far as that goes. The 2016 financial program accounts for 20 billion each year, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The 2019 financial program, however, some three years later, has reached 33 billion or so a year. I'll make sure the space is about that. This will be the result of the possession of the 10◯13 billion, which will be used in a number of subjects. This transport program was followed by 5.5 billion, but they did not cover the average spoken of in the account of the Industrial Association. That's what I'm counting on. There is a bill of national funds for the council, and each year it accounts for a total of approximately 10 to 20 billion in new incomes that will be used in the national fund and, on a temporary basis, a minimum of 10 billion are expected to be there. It is also expected of property income. Something will cut them down. Not just that, but that, on page 2019, the financial program of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York says. 52, with President's permission: We're going to have at least 10 percent of the debt that we're paying for. ready to be 25% of VLPs by the end of 2019... in 1996. It goes on to say that an irregular budget for a government - owned partner will be reimbursed for subsidies. It speaks of nearly 120 billion deaths in the years 2018, 2018, 2020, and 2021, over a four - year period of approximately 40 years. Thirty billion a year. It is then 30 billion, 10 billion in a national fund, the income is estimated to be 30 billion, but I have more of the irregular amount of income than is expected. I wondered: " Should I make room for money on account of the big transport pursuit, or is it to be used in a national fund, or should it be used in subsidies? When I make up these numbers, these items are pretty much gone and well beyond that. I couldn't quite figure out how this is going to happen, and I called for explanations of these countless revenues. It has been discussed here, and the main topic of the discussion was the incident of early December of last year, where the majority came to a committee meeting with the recommendations to promote the funding of increased transport by means of road expenses. Since then, opinions on road costs have been investigated in surveys, and there are more parts, 54% more than or more in bed, a lot more or more resistance, 32% in favor or in favor, and then there's a ratio that doesn't know or doesn't want to answer. In addition to this, 1,466 envelopes were received that took account of the greater cut-off plans, not in general, but the plans of the greater portion in particular, the implementation of its charges that are closing the capital area by road charges; Selphos, Smokeytown, and Citynes, several bytes. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier may be a small expense at each side, but when it comes to gathering, and if you go all the way, you may have paid five times on the way from Smokeytown and into town, a few tanners each time. It is therefore difficult to look at just one price in this process, and it will also be to watch the bigger picture and summer up there. The headlines received were many, 1,466 reminds me, and 1,406 protested these plans of the greater part during the 60th time. So 95% of the guys who sent a review said no, simple and contrary. I have asked people in the past during the discussion: What is the point? Yes, there are some ways that people can influence the work of the Generals. Of course, in elections, with their votes, and then the reviews, formal comments on cases in the processing of committees. It was almost 1,500 people who took advantage of this opportunity to give a name far more than a poll, expressing their views for the work of the committee. Granted, according to polls, some biased individuals may be more likely to express their opinion, which may reveal a much greater degree of intervening between them. Whatever the case, however, we must take into account the facts, they mean something. These are the opinions of people who provide them, elected representatives, to make a conscientious decision on how to handle these matters during the council. When 95% of the guys who send a review say no, we must stop for a second and think things over. It must be. The discussion has often referred to general spending and, on the other hand, a specific way of financing the projects below the opinion of the greater portion. This is made clear where they actually finance more projects than there are those who are going to speed up other projects. Instead of adding the pre-established tax, the tax may be lower or reimbursed at a shorter time, they will have to be funded all the projects and sides of the budget for other projects somewhere, including As in the case of the committee, we find eagles in the same light. In effect, this means paying more projects than just the ones underneath. Otherwise, they would receive the amount of transportation they receive, which would not be taken away in addition to their expenses. This is, as has often been said, a bit different than the examples we have on the roadways in Hahfjörður and Váléllandway, and perhaps on the Smokey Way in the old days to build up there. People usually went to the Halfground tunnel, had a chance to go a shorter route by paying a faraway fee. By means of a planned arrangement, people are now driving the usual Rhine Road, but they have a chance to travel a longer way to avoid their expenses. This will no longer take the usual route. She'll be out of her head right now. They're adding expenses for people who go the same way they've always gone. Obviously, I think it's a tax collector. These are not charges for use, not at all. The smokeways, such as, Southland, and Westland roads, are fundamental things that are absolutely necessary and cannot be excluded as a shortcut or a service extension or something like that. Advisory from e.g. Southnes said that addition to what seemed necessary could be classified as some extra quality that could be charged for, but only the extra items. If asked to make 2+1 road, but the General would extend it to 2+2, then the difference is the road share, where it would be even more secure. We can see that in the current transport program, more and more, the projects that all say are absolutely vitally arranged at the back. Yet, they are vital. We are told: "Go ahead, you will receive vital work by paying for it. You can only get them if that's due. There are no other methods of capitalization. We're not allowed to choose anything else. I don't think that's very good work. I'd like to go into the environment briefly, as others have done here. There is a report called a million tons of HST to 2030, from October 2017 that speaks of the need for us to reach some 500,000 tons of transport carbon dioxide. An operation plan, which means that there are about 100,000 air-free cars in the Navy in 2030, with only about 2,000 pure electric cars registered per year or in 2017. It would have to be that way to achieve this goal that even all selling cars during that period until 2030 would be electric cars, clean electric cars. Of course, general fees, not necessarily taxation, perhaps heavy taxes, or electrical taxes, or something like that or a mile [1 km] as they were, must be talked about, which would replace the fuel tax. There is absolutely aside from the proposals of the greater part and Minister for the charges of specific actions, as they are said, but they are not very specific. They include other projects as well. It's hard to understand. As mentioned here, clients were a little confused about whether they were talking about general charges or specific charges. It's not really either. These are in part general charges, for they cover more projects than costs are charged, but they are not exactly for the same reasons. You see, we have a specific problem after the collapse of the banks, and I've come to this in other speeches, which I've called in person. The debt has been largely paid, resulting in taking over the banking system through a bank taxation and renovating the swellingers and so on. But we're on the inside. Who's going to pay the throughpass? There are people out here with roads. It's just that way. It is the projects that are considered worthy of paying, that they bear dues, or anything like them. Why can it not be applied everywhere? Although they will not pay up roads elsewhere, they would be partially financed by roads, e.g. road loans, 20% or something like that, at the same price as in the capital area. It would be as talk as we speak in the opinion of a greater part of the Committee. The proposal that is now presented does not involve equality. It would be equal if all the routes in and out of Akureyri, Eglish, Hornfjordur, Isafjordur, and other sites were to be closed in the same way as the capital area. That would be equal. What is suggested in the opinion of most parts is not equal, although it is said to be equal. One more at least We received a report on a financial committee that was also referred to the environment and transport committee on road maintenance. This report states, with the permission of a president: ▪ Commonly speaking, it is almost entirely the largest car that causes the breakdown of roads in time. True, people's cars are wearing out the top layer because of nail use. Thus, the maintenance costs that have grown very high in the transport program are merely the largest of the cars to blame, but they are not paying their share. It's about the exact amount of expenses and roads, and it's natural for everyone to pay for it at fuel costs, etc. If the cars were only one toll - yes, it would result in a certain amount of transportation than would be inexpensive to simply support the loss of transport, more travel, or something like that. This would reduce the road pressure by at least half. If taken from a specific period, e.g. When there are lasers and more weight limits, as I think it might be, but it could be better carried out, the cost of maintenance could be reduced even more. He is highly counting in this transport program, and there are a lot more new projects, e.g. those suggested to be financed by means of roads. I wondered again, as I did in reply before what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative: Why does this authority need to pay on the opinion of the greater part? Is it not enough to direct a secretary to the Council to want to set priorities for these listed projects will further be implemented in transport and transport ministers to provide suggestions on possible solutions or funding for the financial programme? No, the more part specifically specified that this must be done in terms not only on expenses but in and out of Reykjavík, in the big capital area. That's how it's financed, not in any other way. Not just by reducing stress, not by counting on the social savings we make with less accidents rates. Not by calculating it. No, we'll get that, and we'll have to pay our dues too. There are so many other things that you can do with these projects than pay dues. The conclusion is that this is simply an increase in tax returns for the big capital area on the southwest corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u153	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent review of this matter. There are many interesting surfaces. A senator rolls up here. However, since I know that the senator is also on a budget committee, I have a little interest in knowing more about these plans. In fact, they are far removed and very vague in all things, unless it is clear that there is some undefined payment in the future, yet there is still a promise of a considerable amount of public activity. At the same time, the majority of the committee take shelter in their not caring for the needs of new projects, e.g. Here on the southwest corner, in which they will later be attacked in another way and financed by another money. Was there any discussion in the Committee on how this conflicted with government law on public finances, how it rhymed with what the government has already proposed, i.e. The financial plan? Over and over again, it's being climbed in speeches of which. The more part of the council is that this is a well-finished and preconceived transport plan, which I think is a quite nice joke to myself. But was there some discussion in the Committee on how this rhymes with the plan, and how do the knots need to be made during such an additional project? The policy seems to be to set up some official partner, deposit a substantial amount of money into public debt to implement public projects, which are not mentioned at any rate in the current five-year financial programme or financial policy of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u154	A respectable president. There was a little mention, a review of a visitor's report that said something about how this was in harmony with public financial law. Since then, there have been no accurate analysis of this. Something was mentioned on the budget board, i.e. that if the government made a decision on the project, this would be a public enterprise that would have to be subject to public financial laws and also fit into financial policy - it is important to have it in there, borrowing and the rates of the loans and financial programs. No, an analysis has not been made how this will affect financial and financial policies, if any. The height? This has some effect over a few years. I'm guessing that would not have a major impact on percentages or percentages. But as I say, the message was that it was being examined. How interesting it is that we have not come to that conclusion now that we are in the future!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I find this very interesting, because the purpose of the government's public financial law was just to make it more firm in government management and government funds, that there would be more foreview, carefulness, and professionalism around financial management. We're talking about under 60 billion. I figure, based on the figures I've seen, that it would probably take a small amount of road fees to pay up the volume here, probably more when it's added to the company's operating expenses, cameras, and other necessary items to run the debt systems themselves. But let it lie in between things. It's somewhere between 5 and 68% of the State's magnitude and less important. I'd like to hear what you're talking about. A senator, a member of the budget board, feels that he is having trouble with his ability, his ability to look out, and his firmness in this. Here we are expected to do this at the council - we expect to be pressured by a special provision for the transport program this week - with complete unattractive goals on how to carry out urgent projects here in the southwest corner, all of which will agree to be of the most important challenges in this context, as you look at traffic and traffic safety, travel time, and so on. But, in fact, we get an unpublished check that we still have an opinion on how this will be financed and whether there is a law on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u156	A respectable president. Yesterday, in unsubstantiated requests, I was given the highest attention. Transport and Regional Ministers on government policy. For the first time, do not charge, it had been taken out of the table. Yet, it is going to take a big turn, which is not a major offense because it is on the average in this century. So, all of a sudden, road charges have come up, just before we're going to set up a transport plan. It is, according to baseline law on public finances, not a sign of firmness or stability, let alone destiny, if this is falling into our laps all at once. Well, I might be able to make myself happy, though. A senator, who reported on the 2017 road tax plan, reminds me that it was - the waterway was inside the project, about 90 billion or something like that - was expected to be less than 5 billion in incomes from road expenses. With less than 60 billion now, this is probably 2/3 of them, so that there would be only less cost each year. That brings us to 3 to 4% or something like that, 5%. Yes, it does. But as I said before, we don't know how much it makes. I would have thought that in this direction, goals, and the like, we should be falling into that circle. This recommendation of the majority of the Committee, to refer this way to a minister, rhymes to some extent into this circle, so in our financial strategy, it is expected that better implementation of what is positive then. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we're a little bit of a limo right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u157	A respectable president. Once again, I rejoice to discuss this welfare number one of transport issues. It follows, especially if we talk about traffic accidents that cost the community 50 billion a year, that it is economicly practical to transport. Thus, traffic accidents, environmental and transport work are reduced, and waste management is reduced. All transport benefits, each of them, even the Wallala wannall canals, increase economy in the country, and promote employment areas, job parishes, and occupational life. It'll help us. Increased economic growth will benefit us directly in our welfare. Besides reducing the costs and the much grief of traffic accidents, we also reduce pressures on all of our systems, such as law enforcement and other response types, medical equipment, fire departments, rescue teams, and then emergency departments, hospitals, rehabilitation, public security, and long - term numbers. It's obvious. Then it is best to review the history of the seminary during the past few years at the council. It must be said at the moment that he has not received attention in line with how important it is and how much it divides us in the welfare matters that we are always talking about and needs to find solutions to increase money and to find ways to reduce growth there, because we want to improve our well - being. The seminar party has not received deserved attention, not in budgets, not in financial programmes, and not in council duties. Although there are high and high goals on days, the last funds were made that would improve the transport process by 400 million, 500 million for the rest of the transport. The budget for transport has been greatly improved through the labour work at the General Assembly, it has to be said at the moment. Most of the budget changes and debates at the end of December, when we discussed the budget on the final meters, were in places other than transport. There was an additional transport proposal, but the focus does not seem to be on that issue. There are a number of other ways you can go. In connection with the discussion of national funds, it has been said whether the funds there should enter the infrastructure. There's been a lot of talk about selling possessions, and I'm on top of my mind that we're trying to get rid of the government's property to go to a nationally important infrastructure. Then there's the priority of the money I came in earlier. What we now use in transportation is elsewhere, so something will escape if we increase in transport. Given the situation and the challenges, I am quite satisfied with this work, transportation plan, and the majority interest in it. The Commission will provide solutions to many of the transport problems to help build up the road system, which has been at least decades behind the Norwegian countries and other countries we compare with. Since 1980 we have been in the construction of our transport system, which may not be strange, since we are a small nation in a large country. But we have to keep up the road. We need to expand our new projects to cope with increasing activity in the road system. It is also accompanied by whole - wound service, larger employment areas, altered farming practices. They need increased service on roads. That's very important. As I come in better afterwards, we have solutions in those cases, maybe not dream solutions, but the meetings have been leading out of the problem, which may be relatively rapid. In recent years, there has been a tremendous increase in flying activity in this country that has caused a threat to flight security. The committee's opinion provides solutions to the issues I consider very important. I think the domestic flight is the most important thing. Most individuals take advantage of it. It is the largest public transportation for the number of users. There are also solutions on the domestic flight, to promote it. It also discusses what I consider to be a landmark meeting, which is between the transport authorities and the rural areas in the capital, about how we build transportation in the capital area. I would like to mention a number of organizational matters, how to pay traffic through the capital, between nationalities, how to complete organizational procedures to trigger the waterway, and how to complete organizational procedures to cope with increased traffic and build a wide range of transport, bicycles, pedestrians, public transportation. It is not just one solution but a complete solution and an agreement between parties on how they work together. The importance of rejection is discussed. The squares and their structure are covered, and there are electricalizations and all of that, and the more important seas. This shows the variety of transport. Everything we discuss is also linked to environmental and climate. It is a long, extreme, and an enormous number of factors are involved, as well as traffic security and pricing and environmental transport goals. So I must say that I had a considerable disappointment with the minority opinion that is merely a matter of very well - defined factors and that has not brought about a wide variety of transport across the country. This is largely a major factor in the capital area. There are some old suggestions that are used in every group of languages that are causing conflict and the smaller parts use to beat managers, i.e. that it can be financed by hunting costs and reduced the rest and the rest of it becomes so great that the government should put money in it. Everyone also says that when we get it back in taxes, the benefits are huge. Everyone says that if we put more in education, the economy will grow considerably. These are the only solutions the lesser part is about in the opinion, the ones who have shown themselves not to be successful. I wrote to myself as a comment on the minority view that the country was forgotten. Whether in the capital area or in the country, we need to think about the whole process of transportation that will always benefit all the inhabitants of the country. It has long proved itself to be built up in the land. Then I'm going to go in my own solutions. First, it's the tax. Why do we go that way? As I said before, it's not necessarily the way of dreams, but it's the way that the guests come to the country and use the road system with us know the best from where they come from. That way their involvement increases, and at the same time, we, a small nation, help build up the road system. Up to 50%, based on the experience we have with the Whale Age, may come from our guests who can be used in the construction of the road system. Then the workplaces of the capital and close to it and elsewhere in the country are divided. However, with regular visits to the capital to attend all administrations, health care, culture, and so forth, the local population will no less pay a faraway price. Here we are considering on what basis the Allied Council of Iceland is prepared to discuss the charges. Then the Executive Director is entrusted with further implementation. Most of the guests who came to the committee agreed that further transportation could no longer be delayed and that since there had been no other way to go, new routes, such as road charges, would be checked to speed up. Then it was the exact basis that mattered. We are talking about factors similar to those in many respects, if not most, for the building up of the Half above, that say that the expenditures that will be collected to speed up projects at a specific location, make the project more possible than would otherwise be funded directly by a transport program. Thus, transport safety and consumption are increasing, creating road users with shorter travel time, lower fuel consumption, and increased safety. It should be taken into account that there is no increase in the number of road drivers and that the payment will be terminated when the relevant driver has been fully paid up. This work requires efficiency and transparency and the use of new technologies so that traffic is not delayed and the cost of operating is not too high. We've been taking these fees in the form of parking fees in our national parks, in the Lake Earth park and the Þingalval National Park. All I have seen was that tourists are generally at peace with it, know such arrangements, and pay them, and have considerable payment. That arrangement has a camera system saved, so we have some experience with it and have done quite well. I was talking about the funding earlier, and the question always arises, "Why don't we put the money we're collecting into the road system? That is exactly what we do. In short, certain charges, fuel expenditures, oil expenditures, and car expenses, earmarked roads, 42% or 19 billion this year should be earmarked road repairs. According to the transport program that we are accepting here, 33 billion are taking over new projects, maintenance, and services, which amounted to 14 billion more than the law expected. The general expenditures, which were never earmarked road construction, still apply to the transport system. As I said before, there is a wide variety of water control, ports, flights, and public transportation, but especially in police surveillance on roads and to the operators, firefighters, medical personnel and emergency services as well as public security. The funds are clearly paid, and if we are going to take more money, they have to go somewhere else. I'd like to come back on the flight, but it's extremely important that the meetings are solutions to speed up the development of backup flights in order to ensure international security and to work on climate issues. If we don't make the safety of flight flight aircraft recording Icelandic airports used by a backup airport, we'll need a lot more fuel than the situation is now the Icelandic reserve airport, based on air traffic, too small to take on such traffic. Therefore, the solutions we present are important, so called passenger expenses or services, and moving Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egressor into the economy of Istavia. We don't have time to put it off any more. We need to send clear directions to the government on how to work on this. With the air service, but also the importance of it, once again with safety in mind, opening up for the landing of less planes at international airports in the Hornfjordur, the Western Islands, and the Isafjordur. Has an investigational committee of plane accidents, e.g. pointed to it. It is important that we support public transportation by means of the Scottish route, as was much discussed today. We must rebuild the national airports. In particular, we need to adapt the pressure in many places, such as the Western Islands and the Isafjörður. Otherwise, such services need to be impaired. There is one of the greatest quality of life in each rural society, a certain distance from the capital, to have two flights a day. That is the basis for a measure of quality. Then we also need to discuss the structure of Istavia and how it affects the infrastructure in its surroundings, but I don't have time to go over it now. I also want to talk about what I came in here, transportation in the capital area. In this agreement it is assumed that transportation can be initiated in the capital area, then I mean public transportation, private transportation, heavy transport, and also cycling and pedestrians, so that Western roads can be crossed over into the Rhine and from South to the Westland without landing in the capital's traffic system, through mixed transport circuits. It is of utmost importance to get started. We discussed a great deal of rejection. One of our biggest exports in the fishing road is in the land of the country, and it's important that it works. It is the basis for a number of jobs in many countries, although much of the projects are below sea level, and the tourism, fishing, and other new exporters in the Icelandic economy are taking advantage of the ports. Organizational matters must be considered. If road spending is being carried out and we can engage in transport campaigns, it is important that the road and rural communities are equipped with planning and design so that faster development can be achieved. We also need to keep in mind that environmental and other aspects of the environment need to be taken into account. If transport projects are implemented and considered nationally important, the organizational matters must not be delayed. This should be considered in review of the environmental impact legislation. In our opinion, we will discuss the interaction between the road generation and the rural society that has been introduced earlier. They are important because they are communities who have expertise in their circumstances. At the end, I would like to mention that it is all about increasing traffic security. That is why it was a great pleasure to have a representative of the young people, the Young People Ask Council of Grindík, who had held a conference on the road safety and had invited more young people to join him. There is a good chapter on page 12 of the committee's opinion on this subject, and I ask people to study it. If we're going into a great structure on the road system, we'll have to decide what to do, set it up in a road model. We have to decide which standards we want to follow, which type of people we want to build for security and to follow them called EuroRAP standards, anyway, so that they meet the EuroRAP requirements. Traffic security creates so much better quality of life and more structure in the opportunities we have. I came in on the flight and I'm going to go to the final sanctuaries to mention the construction of air lessons in Iceland. It's building up a lot, and it needs to be an airport and a facility for the airport, so we can handle it, so that we can follow the growth that we see in the tourism services and in the important sector of the flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u158	A respectable president. During earlier winter discussions on budgets for the New Year, and indeed, last of our discussion on the government budget, I was told of the simple fact that the government's spending conditions would lead to an inevitable tax rise. It would be clear that the cost could not be increased as much as was planned for the government's financial program in terms of raising taxes. It was constantly denied. In fact, it was claimed that there was a time to lower taxes. Of course, this is all we need to talk about, only to finance tax payoffs. All of us can agree on the importance of transportation. But the government's raising their expenses by 25% over a four-year period. There was no other way to set this thing straight. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u159	A respectable president. Yes, there were other priorities. I've worked hard to talk about it and the importance of setting priorities for transportation, since they're a number one welfare issue. I've been doing this since I came into the council about six years ago. I've just done it. I'd like to ask them what. A senator whether it is part of the suggestions of the smaller part signed to set priorities differently. And how, then, should you prioritize the tens of millions of changes included in the committee opinion? To take it in the form of a tax increase in the job life, e.g. The fabrication? I agree that it would have been possible to establish priorities in another, but I went into it in my speech that it has not been the desire of the Generals for the past few years, even though some would have liked to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u160	President. This presentation of the majority is always Colombian, since, according to a financial plan, the State budget of about 190 billion is being increased when we use 2017 as a reference in 2021. And we are to be told that this is not a time - fixing priority for 51⁄27 billion additional transport expenditures. It is obvious that the government's delirium at the expense of state funds is complete. It is due to the day the claim was made, on account of several members of the smaller part, that these promises could not be fulfilled without attacking the rise of taxes. We are seeing the first example of such tax increases with the coldness that is taking place in the economy at the moment, and surely this is not the last tax rise we'll see from the present government, since its will to seek ways to improve the government in some way does not seem to be any.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u161	A respectable president. First, I'd like to point out that I don't consider this to be a direct tax increase, since it is proposed by this, that there is something better for the man paying the dues, that he reduces his expenses and so on. If successful, the pressure will be reduced to raise punitive charges, with the exception of the petition for better traffic security and other reasons when earmarking it. Hv. A senator speaks of a year's payoffs must be set in order for 51⁄2 billion each year to increase so much. That is exactly what has been done. Now 5 billion were added to transport, but for our communities 15 billion a year, on top of the 5 we just added. It tells itself that if we are going to set priorities differently, something will happen to give up on the largest budgets of the state's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u162	A respectable president. Hv. At the end of his talk on EuroRAP, a senator introduced an interesting point. I'm only going to keep it until I get an answer later or later. I ask about the property income that is to be used for transportation and national resources, payment of debt, and God knows what. Because, as I consider it, subsidies pay up the money they expect in that section of property income. There are some of the interest revenues that have declined greatly compared to previous financial programmes. If there's any room to be, which was to be formed with regard to the income, I wonder where it should come from, if it should also go to the national fund. Just a minute about the EuroRAP at the end, if I get it. It was found at the meeting of the Committee that approximately Half of the roads that are classified according to the EuroRAP classification system, e.g. C8 Road, actually, are C7 pathway, of lower quality. So overall, we have far more problems with transportation than we look at the books. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u163	A respectable president. We are here talking about selling property, selling money, money, and so forth. We have an enormous amount of property in the banks. We have a special property in Istavia. We're getting money from our resources and things like that. This is to be arranged so that we can say: Part of this is to go into wood, other to pay off debt, and to pay off debt, we save interest costs, which can be used again in the interior or put in one of these. We are pointing out that this is why we are paying the dues. Pays are specific charges that go directly into building road systems, not anything else. They do not have to go through this discussion. And I believe we have no time to wait for a considerable discussion here at the General Assembly. The best option, then, is that it comes first to action. It is easier to direct them on road projects rather than to discuss priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u164	A respectable president. That's very interesting. What happens when the revenues begin to clear up? In other words, they are not supposed to go on transportation, since people have to pay dues for going that way. Is there something else to be used for possession? Or should these means of transportation be paid immediately, loans, so that when these assets are determined to be taken, people will no longer pay the dues? Just back to EuroRAP, a question I want an answer to. For example, when it was being spent on the Vestjörður roads, which way to go, etc., was part of the main route under C7 route, registered C8 Road, he would have to go up for an update to meet the demand and stress if the R route had occurred. And when they asked about this, she said that about... Half the roads they had would actually be worse than the list indicates. That's a very interesting statement, I must say, and put our transport system in even worse conditions than any human would like to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u165	A respectable president. For that matter, there will be no reimbursement on the sole basis. Pays are just for the most important and important projects. The need for investment in the transport system is sure to be about 400 billion, so we have the full need to obtain something from our possessions into transport despite the expenses. And we also have many more infrastructures that we need to build here, such as nursing homes, electrical distribution systems, and long numbers. You're right. A senator says about the road system and its safety. That's why I'm talking about how important it is and that's part of the internal demand for transport, i.e. Update of the roads. We need to update the road system. Whether it is the C8 road or the C7 Road - although it is the same type of road, the amount of road weight and the other conditions may vary. So it all matters so much too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u166	Mr. President. This has been an interesting conversation tonight and today. We've been discussing only government laws for the last few minutes. The financial program for the next five years, which we agreed on. In our time, it is calculated that 338 billion will be made up of government investments over a period of five years. The amount of money we were talking about on expenses is about 15% of it. In the context of these sections, this number is similar to that of Istavia, which has diminished in Cheflavík for the next four years. It's exactly the same number. This figure is estimated to have dropped to 86 billion in the next four years. I find this interesting, and I agree with the senator. I might ask him, " Is he willing to agree that transportation funds have been too much for the past few years? ' Do we not have to do much better, and is this the way to solve the problems facing there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u167	A respectable president. That's a very interesting point as a dog. Friðbertsson This is my business, which one company in one place has been in great business. Isavia's newest projects at Keflavour Airport have been on the verge of being as big in one year as in the whole road system in Iceland, all new projects in the road system in Iceland. In this way, we are not talking about such a large amount. This is about 60 billion in a five - to - six - year period or a year of about 10 to 15 billion. It's all very, very big, about 400 billion bucks. The need for investment in the transport system, so I can't see how this is supposed to put laws on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u168	Mr. President. I thought that it would be right to intervene in this discussion from the previous issue of public financial law because when you have pointed to it here at the Senate Hall and on a financial committee and in other places, people do not have the same feeling for performances of Isvia's national size, influence on the state, and so on, as one clearly sees this matter. But it's exactly the same thing. All I want to do is make sure that there's a whole lot of people talking about these things and in some context, but not taking out one thing and one thing, think more about the big picture. And it's time to keep this in mind. No one has spoken specifically about this, the activities of Istavia in the overall context of things, and the investment of the state as an investment. You're right, it's very strong here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u169	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator noted that it is a bit interesting to see how the discussion often develops and grows large in some smaller language. So when things are really big and they're supposed to make a difference, the discussion about what they're not. Then I'd like to point out that the senators, especially at the moment. The budget and the what. A financial and business committee should be more concerned about when large and large projects are being made in one place than about projects such as those we are considering in a national transport program. Istavia's projections at Keflavour Airport have a direct bearing on the transportation system. The smokeway is long broken, and everyone's building around the airport. However, roads can be spread throughout the country, and there are a greater number of projects involved and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator deeply appreciates his review and shows of available assignments. It was informative to hear the senator confirm that the more part considers the most essentials not to be placed in a transport program but to have a conclusion about the charges. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject. We called attention to this in the committee's study of my section, how my priorities have somehow been turned upside down, and the most important projects that have been discussed, and intended to carry them out and finance them. Then I'd like to ask, too. A member of Parliament on the reversal of members of the Independence Party in the Southern District, all of whom over a year ago said that they were opposed to the charges of a topic of public talk. [[The president calls.]] What has happened since then? At that time, the Independence Department was familiar with the situation of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u171	A respectable president. I'd like to point out that your priorities are based on traffic security. The roads have to be fixed all over the country. That is what the transport program does, adapts roads throughout a country where traffic accidents are high, and also compared with traffic accidents. Therefore, we agree with the priorities expressed in the transport program. But most people, if not all of us, the roads that we're offering to cover the road, which contribute to financing and quick implementation, are already in the course of transportation; Smokeynes Way, Southland, and Western roads, but it takes a lot more to finish them and it always takes a lot of time to finish them. That's the problem we're solving with these charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. Is it clear that what the senator had previously said was the most important project? It is not the most important project to be financed. Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator is concerned with whether it matters to him that road users have a different option from those on a tax scale, such as the U.S. for those living near what? A council member on Southnes, i.e. that they have a second chance of going to the capital area to avoid road expenses. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the Scottish route. If I recall correctly, that idea costs 1.5 billion a year, what is being discussed there. Where will the senator find the money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u173	A respectable president. I'll try to answer these questions in one minute. But, yes, the most important projects are those that are funded by the roads, which put their priorities first in a transport program. They're just not gonna be smart in this transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u174	Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u175	They will be completed for far too long because small amounts of money are available, and that is why they have not been able to finish. We're trying to figure that out, including By getting our guests who use the road system to help us build up the road system, such as the industry, we help build electrical and other electrical distribution systems. We need help to build this up because we are a small nation in a large country. A second course is certainly possible, but what really matters is that it is better for a person who uses the means for transportation. It reduces travel time, increases security, reduces fuel consumption, and saves time, which is very practical. That's the main thing. With the Scottish route, it's based. It is also reordering the amount of money currently available in public transportation and air management. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u176	Mr. President. I'm going to begin by taking into account the detailed minority views of the environment and transport committee. Of course, while there are some good things in this transport program and other projects that we should be able to combine, I will discuss primarily how to finance it and what might lead to doing so. Of course, all of us agree that transportation is a major means of success. Our roads are far behind the transport network of the comparative nations, and it is only a political decision to keep building up and not allow the infrastructure to collapse, as it really shows. During a tremendous leap in recent years, we completely refrained from accepting that responsibility, both when we had a higher income and when we had a clearer and better chance to obtain a price, e.g. of tourists, but already it starts to lower on a worse side. All of this, of course, is a matter of security. Of course, there are too many unnecessary accidents that cost society enormous amounts, not to mention the tragedy they bring. Experts have assessed the economic cost of society's accidents to be about 40 to 60 billion each year. That's many times the amount we need to make up for and fix what we need. Then there are the many life - styles and roads around the country, both to ensure that we get our products in place, so that we can build a secure, successful life, and especially for the people to attend the necessary services. Especially is this so in a very large but small country. You see, Iceland, with its unique status, including three to four countries around the world, has about 70% of its population living in a very limited region, the southwest corner. It needs to work out solutions and better ways to ensure the most densely populated areas of the country needed and good transport benefits as the scattered regions also enjoy safe and acceptable transport. Of course, roads and road expenses can be excellent measures to carry out specific projects. They may be quick to take a shortcut. It is also possible to put it in order to have some sort of access control for environmental reasons or to facilitate transportation. But here we are to offer something completely different. We're talking about road taxes. Only other laws apply to them. It is, in fact, to collect taxes in designated places, regardless of where the money flows. When these ideas surface, a serious diagnosis, including some of the above, needs to be considered. the weight of the tax system in each part of the country, the age group, and especially on the income. Diving is an excellent example of fine projects that could be financed because of a different route; while other places in the country, small towns closed by mountain and sea may be worse off. Now it is also appropriate to mention that it can be and that it differs in the transport programme in terms of national development, by terms of elections. I called the first plan the highest. Minister of the Sigurður of Ingi son of Jóhannesson from autumn: Always forgotten East. It expected, and it still seems to me, about 3.3 billion while his own district, South American, gets 15th. These are all the things that need to be considered. The fact that governments over the past few years have neglected the task, even at a marvelous up - to - date period, will not excuse the intention of exasperating vague ideas that the nation has not had the opportunity to speak about, which the council has not been able to discuss, nor is it seem that the government is fully aware of, but is quite confused and disagrees when questions are asked about individual ideas. The proposals, however, are not implemented. Rather, they agree to a certain amount of transport strategy. But the rest of the necessary projects so that they can finance any vague ideas that will be implemented to the Ministry without any guarantee that a good solution can be obtained in the language that all of the people can accept. If such a fundamental change is to be considered, it must be based on professional research and careful work that takes time and much longer than we have been dosed here. It must then be discussed at the council and discussed long enough for the spread of agreement. This leads to a second discussion. First, in the government covenant, the expansion of the council and the conversation between government and government opposition is made plain. Well, then it's got the highest. In fact, the prime minister often talks about a matter that spent much of a common interest and is long - term in order that needs to be won in a broad sense. Is there something you can talk about in this case, Mr. President? I don't think so. In addition, in the leading of the last election, most of the classes, especially the government, and probably the highest. The secretary of transportation is clear against road taxes and road expenses. That's why it wasn't unexpected last fall, when it was the highest. The minister set out the transport program, that there was nothing to be done about it. In fact, that plan was a lot off, and it would have had to be discussed. She discriminating parts of the country and didn't expect enough money. However, the United States and other groups here have suggested a chance to earn money. Of course, the autumn explanation was just the government's inability to earn money and at least Maintain unrecognized income stocks or were not obligatory. During this discussion, however, a section of the Independence Party, with a husk, traveled. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson in front of the class - he was on the front of the stage with the micron and spoke down the minister's ideas - and offered a different kind of solution, much of which is now, if I understand correctly, the foundation for the discussion of the day. It must be an isolated example in Icelandic politics that a civilian member of the board of directors, the minister of a collaborator, deposes himself and temporarily replaces the Crown. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation appears to be a minister of some kind. However, matters are being controlled elsewhere than from his Ministry. Of course, it is good for the council to take on some power, but it is quite peculiar when this conflict appears in the political part of the world. Is it really possible, then, that the government covenant can't be met for more cooperation after even a member of the government cannot agree? But then, letting go, the Conspiracy states that there is a need to attack and finance the document we've been discussing. We want to set up projects that Vega feels should be top priority on the agenda, that they will be funded from a government fund, which is a matter of security. There we can name Kjalarnes Road, the most dangerous road in the country. We can name the Smokey Way, Eaglenes Road and the Westland Road. I think a national gain from these projects would probably pay up to decades. Meanwhile, if I get it right, it's expected to pay in two decades. In addition, the United States wants great and necessary development throughout the country because it is also important. There we have emphasized public transportation because it is extremely important. They deal with a number of aspects of our community. It affects the economy of the population - the transport costs of the Icelanders are unusually high - nested, traffic weight, security, and especially the climate, which I thought were the focus of this government. That, of course, is one of the most important and largest projects we and the world are facing today. Then I must express special concern about the lack of ambition in the government when it comes to a city line, which is the key to long-term successful urban development in the capital area. It will save enormous, old - fashioned, old - fashioned means of transportation that cost enormous amounts of money. The urban line is, in particular, a prerequisite for Iceland's ability to live up to its climate targets. Further, transport for the public is very important. We have to start making it possible for people to live without having and using a private car. A government - based campaign group emphasized the importance of speed up the building of a city line. However, the transport program allows only 800 million for the project in the next few years, which is just a fraction of what is needed. In 2008 it was the first year of man's history, with an estimated as many people living in a city as it is in a rural country. Predictions are that by 2050, about 70% of the world's population will live in a city. Me and the Icelanders have long reached this goal without responding. This move from rural areas to urban areas in the 20th century led to the development of most cities in recent years in an utterly unacceptable and unsatisfactory way. They have been built up on the basis of the private car and the American car city based on sorting and separating; the gills and animals within which public transportation is difficult to build. This, Mr. President, simply doesn't work anymore. If the capital city continues to grow on the basis of what it has been doing, it's going to be very unsuspectable. Let's just remember that climate is going to be one of the main subjects of the next generation. The warmth of the earth has long since become clear to us, and this is where man's waste and energy use are far more important. So we need to think of new, eco-friendly energy sources, and we can go into energy exchange, and we can try to push everyone into electric cars, but that will solve only part of the problem. The big way we can handle this is by improving public transportation in the capital and the capital area. We call it a city line. You see, with the sound structure of urban areas, we also have the biggest opportunity of fighting for an improved climate. The cities are the main source of economic growth in most Western countries, and it is very important that they build up in a practical and good way. A strong city has a far beyond the city limits, so this is not an issue between national areas and capitals. A strong city needs a more powerful region - but powerful settlements also require an efficient and efficient capital. That is why, even if it is not the subject of this bill, we need to build more tightly and we need to build less, and we need to modernize the infrastructure to make it more efficient. The most powerful route is public transportation that prevents the insane, unnecessary, unwise expansion of the cities. I repeat, this isn't all city interests alone. These are the interests of the whole country, and it has to be seen to it that the will is to finance this contribution in a transport program. Mr. President. Now I've spent quite some time talking about the capital and the actions that need to be funded there. It is simply because most people live there. However, it was a political decision that, because of a small population in a large country, pay to build up central, strong service in one place, hospitals, administrative, school, and other places. So, of course, we also need to stay in the country and to be reasonable, to advance transport across the country, the East, the West, and the South. And that's what we're supposed to be able to do. We are not to fall into disputes over individual settlements, about individual parts of the country. We're all here to be able to settle for a transport program that can be met by everyone. We have done so in the past, even though at times we have not been able to finance it. However, the Conspiracy points out that it is possible, even under the present circumstances, to finance these things. The destruction of bank taxes, the reduction of hunting costs, and other items that we can pick up could all guarantee this 13-114 billion dollars. which was enough to cover the entire plan as it is. Let us, indeed, do so. It matters. Although it's natural to run a car, that they pay some part of what they own it, let's also watch that we've built up a country, we've built up a city and towns, that don't make it possible for you to live any other way than having a private car. We will also need to think of those who have the smallest amount of money and who are making the most of it. In this example, as it is set, it is ready to increase the weight of less wealthy people or people who have attended cheap housing in the neighboring settlements of the capital and have to come to work every day. We have a direct obligation to care for this group. Since we've built an infrastructure all over the country that assumes we can use public transportation and don't have to rely on the private car - then let's just make it very difficult to keep it. But there must be a choice. Today, people don't have a choice. You can't say to people: Sell your car. That's not possible. It is not possible in a country that is so scattered and not possible in a city that has stretched much farther than normal and necessary - and would have been if we had based on the European model of blending, which is rooted in the time when the private car did not exist. Of course, it is a beginning and an end to the position we are in. First, though, we need to build real civil transportation before we can tell people to park. While we cannot tell people to park, we must take into account who can pay and who cannot. Strong public transportation is not merely about the numbers of crowns that go between different stings here in Congress and in the Ministry. It's about the economic and social opportunities of the people of the country, about jobs, about security, about development, about sustainability. Simply put, we need to be more careful when discussing this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u177	Mr. President. I cut it by what I did. A senator said that the minority opinion was detailed. That's four pages. Eight-and-a-half lines will end the international flight and the national flying system. I'd like to ask you what. A senator what his ideas are about domestic flights. We've been talking about public transportation. It will take 7 hours and 15 minutes to take the bus to Akureyri, 12 mouse 14 hours to take the bus to Egress from Reykjavík. I would be interested in getting a closer look at these matters at the moment. A senator as there is very little of this in the minority of environment and transport committees. Maybe I could get a closer look from the wind. A senator has exactly these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u178	Mr. President. I don't always place the meaning in the word "gainly" to say that the material is distributed on as many as possible. I've seen an opinion, just recently, a majority view from the same transport committee, of which there were 3.5 pages of nothing. Either way. A senator calls it precise or not necessary to answer. I've talked about that because we've decided to build here a very central service which has been sensible, I think, when it was thought at the beginning, we must also make sure that all the people of the country have access to the capital. Therefore, I have not been opposed in some way to look at people's support to get as fast as possible to the capital, whether by flight or by bus. Not all of us live in Akureyri or Bulgaria where the airports are. Things have to be thinkin' a lot more detailed than that. And then, of course, we need to examine this all the way and take into account climate and various needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u179	Mr. President. It's nice to talk about the climate in this context. It's less carbon dioxide, and it's flying in the interior than it is when people drive between places. It's been through. This is a very important thing and it's just as good as it's gonna come out here. What I also complain about in this minority party is that there is nothing about flying security in this country. They are not mentioned, the structure of the flying system, which has been an important part of the transport committee work since autumn. The reviews received before the committee are very detailed and how serious the situation is in these matters. I think it's pretty fast when you don't mention it in this detailed four pages. This is not particularly detailed, however, when such factors are set aside, which has been very controversial in the community over the years, and there are a number of debates about the transport program. I just don't agree with the senator that this is particularly thorough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u180	Mr. President. I'm not going to fight about what. A senator on what is thorough and what is not. I thought it was a good idea. He seemed to have given him what I said because he doesn't answer. I haven't said that I'm necessarily opposed to examining ideas that are involved in giving strength to people by flight. I said, however, that it needs to be thrown over and calculated. You can't put it on our table like that. A senator makes that figure already has been calculated. I guess it all depends on how many people are in the car.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u181	Did I fix this to you? That's what I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u182	We're open to things about this. What I said at the beginning of the talk, and I'm just gonna stick to it at the end of this counter is that I'm here discussing funding or the lack of financing and the Veterans Service that seems to be going to throw into the air some ideas without knowing anything about how to finance them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u183	You're not answering the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u184	Mr. President. Hv. Logi The rise of taxes will be reported on by the son of Einarsson. I'd like to call this what we're talking about making market money with a profit for the citizen. I'm pointing at something like that. parking fees that work evenly on all users. The appeal can be viewed locally or by the driver on the part of the driver. It's not tax, it's tax. I'm going to lay a simple picture of the input of roaders for what. A senator. There's a man who drives 200 miles a year because of work. That's 10,000 miles. The tax has come, 1,75,200 k., multiplied by 200 trips, that is 30,000,400,000 k. every year. The horse, the real driver, costs the man 100 bucks. In a mile, that's a million. Then we'll see what the curses are. And the river? Short driving time, half a liter of fuel, longer life span of a car, increased safety, reduced emissions. [[The president calls.]] Only gas savings are about 12,000 bucks. Where, then, are these terrible curses, Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u185	Mr. President. I'm just going to reiterate what I said before: As long as you don't have any options, no choice of whether you have a private car or using public transportation, you have to live the environment so that it doesn't add much weight to those who have few money in your wallet. Because of what? A senator was so brilliant to think of comparing parking fees, so in general, if you park in the downtown town and pay for that parking fee, you also know that it is to keep them in place, not to pay parking lots on the West or East or South. So it's just totally unrelated and unusable. I have generally been rather positive about paying for individual projects, since there is another way to drive and this will be to shorten the road. This may include a measure of protection. But it's an example. A senator made no mistake, and I was not able to follow the account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u186	Mr. President. We talked about the climate issues earlier today, and then there was a reason. A senator not here. Sadly, he missed all of that. But I'm going to discuss only income-related fuel costs. Wouldn't that be nice? Shall we? Or a income-related car tax? The main thing is, we're doing this for this purpose. And because they've talked here about bypasses, both of them. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, these ensues: Cheflíkíkífs: South Coast Road; Selephoss ◯ Reykjavík: South Coast road, Krysvíkíkóttir. Perhaps one relatively cheap toll gate when you drive into Hafnarfjördur. Reykjavík ◯ Citynes? No, the Þingurdell, the Queen's Pass, Hvalfjörður. So this is not the big deal. But I'd like to point out that the routes are in this picture. And, of course, that's the way it is, and experience shows that people do not drive these long distances but go where they can best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u187	Mr. President. I can make you happy. A senator by not letting me miss this climate discussion earlier today because there are TVs in many parts of the house so that you can watch. You can take in some information and other things that you may find less remarkable. I thought we were what? A senator would generally feel that our tax system was really to raise the necessary income to support service but also a very important tool for the equation. Then I would have found it easier to impose a spell on those who really can carry them and to protect those who cannot. Of course, you can do the same in the general tax system. That would be, for example. you can join ASI and examine four steps. Perhaps higher fishing costs could be set, about a few billion. Perhaps it would be temporary to postpone a bank tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u188	A respectable president. From what I hear. Einarsson It was understood that more parts of the environment and transport committee were responsible for the changes in priorities from the road structure's focus. I wish I could. A senator explains what they are and where that proposal is. In addition, I would like to ask myself, " What does consultation involve? ' Would further consultation be given to provide a transport plan without discussing transport costs and waiting for a bill to be submitted to the council and to discuss it only then?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u189	Mr. President. Now I haven't sat in all these environmental and transport meetings, but as I understand this is at least has not been financed by secure means of all the factors involved. Some people are being referred to with the expectations of vague currency. Isn't that right, huh? Senator? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Well, now the person here is in a lot of trouble because one side of me has a problem. A council member who shakes his head and the other side of the government council member who nods. Maybe now they'll settle this at a meeting tomorrow. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But this is the information I have. I ask them, "Why are there any currency ideas being turned up in the Ministry until the spring if money has been found in all of this? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. Einarsson The answer is for the son of fire. In the fall of this year, a transport plan was submitted to the General Assembly by priorities of Vega, the Transport Board, and the minister of the seminary. No formal modification proposal has been proposed, except for minor deviations due to the performance of the Vega type. However, it has been commented on the need to adjust your priorities. If there are any ideas that can be developed on increasing budgets, a change in priorities will be possible. As I would like to ask, Hv. A senator stated that there was no cooperation on the city line and no financial value would be spent on a city line. Is there room to cross the road to Bourgway, improved traffic flow, traffic control, safety action in the capital area, completely unrelated to the city line? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u191	Mr. President. There is simply evidence that many of the most important projects are referred to the future. The projects Eaglenes Road, the West Coast, can be mentioned. It is not as if it is a figure of what to do in a way that makes public transportation on the whole country, but also the city line, so that we can live up to the commitments we have to make, both in climates, and also in order that it is just viable. I reiterate on the final ticket that public transportation is a matter of choice, that we can all live here without having to use our private car. That's one of the most important projects. We face this situation, and let us unite in finding money in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u192	President. I thought it was a good speech by then. Senator. I agreed with him on his vision. He offered to have a conversation about her, and I would like to try to deal with it. A senator without a plot and a traditional cyborg between government and government opposition, and about two, one on the one hand, a future fee and one on the other, a city line. I'd like to have some. A senator in one minute -- I know that it's kind of easy - to think about how we're taking a future fee, I'm not talking about in a special project, but in the future, when we realize that we've reached our goal of taking out the stock of gasoline and oil. Because there are ways to do so. In a minority list, we speak of the use of taxes in the State. A good price to pay, but it's a big change that we're not taking a special income and letting the cities use it, but we're taking it off a tax product. [[The president calls.]] I want to talk to you about it. A senator this minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u193	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this very much. I think that's exactly what we need to talk about. In general, I am aware that with present conditions in which we have not built an essential foundation system - we are offering less money as a share of the income of our nation than of neighboring nations. Yet, they are primarily maintaining their systems while we are building them up. We do not have a public transportation system that compares to that of cities elsewhere. We are in a position where people have to have a car, and it's only natural for them to use the combination, use the public tax system, to pay for them to build up. When we find ourselves in a place in life where people can have a car or take a train or bus, let's start putting much harder spells on car owners because it's not necessary. There, for example, have been identified as one of Jehovah's Witnesses. Sweden is looking forward to setting up a simple mile tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u194	President. Thank you. Senator. Of what it is. A senator says, "Is it not only right to clear out the fuel and oil fees now? " Not that I'm suggesting it. But it must fall to ideologies. Senator. But there is something else. I'm just wondering about the ideologies. The rest turned to the line of the city. I think we're gonna do what. A senator wholeheartedly agrees on its importance, and we should do everything in our power to get it. I admit that I've understood it so that projects are linked, and I may not necessarily name all city lines - but that in the fall, when a revised transport program comes along, it is very specific to projects related to the city line. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: If it is a government opinion, both governments and one of the local governments of the capital area, that there could be some special payment, taxation, tata, what we call them, to build up the city line immediately in the autumn of the transport program, whether or not. A senator considers them to be too short. [[The president calls.]] Because he says that there has to be a high-ranking civilization travel before we start paying for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u195	Mr. President. I realize that I need money to build the system, but I'm saying that while we haven't built it up, we should do it by the tax system. What about dropping fuel charges? Like a snooze. A senator asked. I ask, "Do you feel why?" A senator fair, as the evidence shows, that there may be a possible charge for both fuel costs and expenses? Finally, I ask: Who are the individuals in the community who will be able to afford to cross into environmental cars? As important as it is, we all cross into electric cars, we also need to wonder, as long as the situation is: What people in the community will be the last to buy electrical cars? It's the poorest people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u196	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the terms of transport protocols, this big strategy for improving our transport systems, as it has been discussed with the Council's Environment and Transport Committee for the whole fall. Visitors have established the committee from all over the country, and unfortunately, the majority of people have described a poor situation in their environment. Let them know who they want. The funding of transport reform has not been sufficient in recent years, and neither in terms of expectations nor intensification has been necessary. There are some positive improvements in transport, and this makes it possible for us to rejoice. Even if everyone, as in life itself, is never to be happy, it is possible to rejoice that more than 192 billion are spent on transportation for the next five years. So everyone must see that here we are discussing one of the most extensive programs proposed for each government. Of course, according to the size and scope of the transport program, it should reflect an assessment of the good and good plan according to our goals in climate change. It is an occasion to celebrate the emphasis being made on public transportation, biking steps, and construction at the city level, but when it comes to the funding of these factors, I would surely have wanted to see a much more money put into them. 300 million. K. ... thecompanyofthe administration of the state this year and 500 billion. K. a contribution to the next in the city line, with the conditions for the same contribution of rural areas in the capital area, could be called too little in times when we have accepted the Paris convention's objective. I would have so much liked to see the ambitious funding of a city line on the side of the state. But let's hope that this will be one of the events that will be reviewed in the autumn in a transport program, as foretold, from our goals in climate change to 2030, will be thought of as a principal government tool to ensure that Iceland achieves the target of the Paris Convention. In this context, as in the comments of Reykjavíkurburg on the transport program, we can be reminded that in the climate control program presented in September, there is a number of issues presented in the state of the United States.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Then there is growth in public transportation and bicycling, and walking as a means of transportation is an important factor in reducing emissions. A transport system must be developed that makes it a practical option to travel beyond that of an individual car. At the same time, it is important to change travel habits, make them more diverse with the power of public transportation, the sharing economy solutions, and the maintenance of walking and riding infrastructures. The Action Programme refers to the shape of transport programmes by means of measures such as the implementation of electric wheels and bicycles and the growth of public transport and transport economy. We must also take to heart the comments of Reykjavík, the town where the existing proposal for transportation to 2033 does not prove that the State is going to take its action on climate issues seriously. A total of 4.6 billion are expected. in the construction of gang-and-wheel footpaths in the whole country over the next 15 years. Pays to advance bicycling and walking will be as suggested by about 300 million. K. A year for the whole country. In comparison, the city of Reykjavík has laid 450 million. K. Every year in bicycling these past few years. It is true that the greater part points to the increase in bicycle riding in a few years, and according to a survey of travel habits in the fall of 2017, the share of bicycle riding grew from 4% to 6% since the 2015 survey. There is clear evidence that footing has produced significant results in promoting the growth of bicycles. I'd also like to be able to guess what Reykjavíkurburg reminds us of in its review, which is the Ministry of Environment and Resources Programme for Air Quality, set up by the Ministry last year. It shows that transport is one of the main sources of air pollution in urban areas. The Ministry's strategy provides some air quality targets and could be directly connected to two of them and thereby reduce the environmental impact of car traffic on the health of people that are excellent, but, as stated in the city's statement, it seems to have failed to recommend a transport plan to determine the policy of transport authorities in order to achieve the State's target of air quality. These factors must be taken seriously, Mr. President, because these are not only serious environmental impacts but also the negative health effects of the transport we have to cope with. Of course, I agree with what is said in the majority of the Committee that public transportation is urgent in all parts of the country, as they are important for job and study conditions within the country and must be a practical option for citizens and tourists. This will especially include the frequency of travel, the amount of fare, and the lead system. In this regard, there must also be a plan for action that I have mentioned in the past, with high emphasis on public transport growth. As regards the importance and growth of public transport, we must be united as all others are available. There is far too much at stake when it comes to promoting radical and powerful system changes to help control climate change. To this end, changes in our travel habits are vital. I would also like to draw attention to the emphasis of much of the other part that has to do with the urgent energy exchange that has been discussed here tonight. It is an electronic rejection that the majority of the objects feel the need to speed up as much as possible with respect to the environment. Now that I've discussed the focus and environmental considerations, it's time to say what I'm paying a warning in the Commission opinion, a respectable President, the scope of a revolution in the funding of public transport by means of road expenses. Most of the speakers in this discussion have discussed this funding idea, for no wonder it is a brand - new means of financing public transport. It has to be said as it is that it was surprising that when only a few days were left in the autumn council, new and unsurpassed information from the Ministry of Transport on road expenses or special road taxes were provided to finance the general transport programme. These suggestions on the road tax are a complete revolution to the financing ideas of public transport and nowhere to be found in the government covenant. Although this was the case with members of the committee. The Environment and Transport Committee debates on how well or how badly the Committee discussed road taxes is the fact that there has been little discussion of the taxation of the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, even though introductions have taken place in January on the results of a staff service team. Transporter on this financing route. To be honest, I've found that when we are actually discussing these ideas for the first time, the media claim and assert that these methods of financing are fully satisfied with us, when we are in fact discussing them at the moment, but the Congress treatment of road taxes remains. What is more important is that all the transfers of road taxes, which are critical of the decision-making process, remain. It is clear to me that the ideas of a travel minister's staff are focused on the capital population paying for a road taxes in the country, since most of the ideas of its collection are around the capital area. This may be understandable, for the nation's greatest traffic is in the capital area, but the inhabitants of the capital area must get a much clearer picture, but now a transport program on what this means accurately. The road taxes are so called taxation, but it is minimal to remember that the national conference of the Left Animated movement concluded against road charges as a result of the movement's policy on tax issues that have carried themselves on more righteous and multi-step taxation and against flat taxation and dropped more taxation, for it goes on in terms of paying more than that level. Then you can ask: Shouldn't the structure of the basic road system be funded and maintained by a common fund rather than a special road tax? It is important that the figures involved are accurate and developed in a way that enables the common people to develop an informed opinion of the case and that all of us can seriously evaluate how roads or taxes differ. I honestly think here, Mr. President, when we decide to set a road tax or a tax rate, we're going to start backwards and out of the reverse. There's something we need to talk about properly when we get to the top. A transport minister puts forth his preaching bill later in spring and even discuss this further when a new transport plan will be submitted earlier than three years later, as foretold. If we are going to reroute the funding of the transport system that has been established for decades and to decide that our road system and its reform will be funded by a special tax tax tax saving, to produce if the objective is to reduce traffic to the environment, then a clear overall policy on public transportation and a clearer greener transport policy needs to be established. Road taxes cannot merely finance more tunnels, speed up transportation, and increase traffic flows that offer speed and greater transport. If a road tax is to serve green environmental goals such as conditional traffic delay, it must be clear that the funds that will collect on the taxation flow in public transport, rapid construction of urban areas and continuing work on bicycles, and significant increases in the ability of walking people to cross places safely. This, hopefully, will turn into an act of the council. In order to ensure progress in the new financing process of transport, which should serve green goals, it is also necessary to work with a much greater degree of cooperation, cooperation, and conversation, as it is evident that the position of the decision-making providers to transport, in terms of road charges and taxes, is extremely shallow and even completely unformed, as expressed by the European Commission, now one of the most important sources of information. The official review says, with permission of the president: European Union has not developed a road policy to finance transport infrastructure. [...] However, the premise of such currency in other countries is consistently that there are alternative ways to go, without charge, and is natural that this also takes place on land. The European Union wishes to be consulted by the representatives of the Union on the development of such ideas. I think it is very urgent and, in fact, absolutely necessary to have in this case, a revolution in the funding of public transport, a great and good consultation with as many as possible, and I encourage the highest. A secretary of transportation to do that. Another factor I would like to mention in this committee article is the plan to subsidize national air traffic costs to Reykjavík, one of the results of the transport secretary's staff on national and airports. It is in my opinion a very painful operation, but it is estimated that up to eight will be submitted and returned from the country to Reykjavík. According to this, I am fully aware that it is in the government covenant that, by permission of the president, it is required that an internal flight be made more affordably for the inhabitants of the region to be carried out. This is what I'm fully aware of. In addition to this subsidies, the currently proposed subsidies on domestic flights are increasing to up to 1 billion per year. It is a time when we have undergone the Paris Convention to reduce emissions to support climate warming, and we know that flight is one of the contributing factors of air pollution. If these flying subsidies are thought of as a concentration to the inhabitants of the country, would this less than a billion each year be used in long-traveled reforms in the national road system or even to improve national infrastructure? What about further promoting public transportation in behalf of the environment? Because in this context it has often been referred to a so - called Scottish route, it can be noted that in Scotland the Scottish Gobster Party has been highly critical of the discount. A report on the state of climate operations and climate in Scotland since 2017, says how much air emissions since flight have increased over the past few years, especially during international flights, although the domestic flight is spoken of in Scotland. It also shows that since the tax rate was recorded, emissions have increased and if increased, as some Councilmen in Scotland would like to increase by increasing the number of areas such as the remotest area of Scotland, there will be an increase of 5% in domestic emissions. In Scotland too, there has been a strong criticism of environmental organizations on the tax rate enjoyed by the airlines in that country. Not only so, but also the situation is that Scots have been in trouble because they have not yet been equipped to see whether or not this is going to work out with airlines. So I'm just going to give this bold idea here whether we'd be willing to subsidize a flight to the capital in order to fly out into the country to enjoy the unique nature that the country has to offer. There may be something we could discuss in this context. Mr. President. As a result, I have been very careful about the instructions I have for transportation and finally made that we must follow a clearer, more efficient, more eco-efficient transport policy, invest in transport infrastructures for public transport, such as so many members of the Parliament have had close contact with us tonight in this discussion. Then, whether walking or biking traffic or public transportation, it is spoken of as the most diverse way. The transport plan of all of us is to take into account the financial resources and the expenses of all the transport costs, for our good of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u197	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. That's exactly what I wondered. A candidate in his speech came to appreciate the fundamental change in the financing of the road and the weight of the funding. I wondered if there was any discussion on the environment and transport committee in this regard. It should, e.g. to be quite clear, in view of the ideas of paying more and more on the basis of all the radicals and from the capital area, that we are here with a considerable number and an increasing number of people in the capital crisis moving in neighboring areas, the Ayborg area, Acdine, Smokey Town, where we see that great population growth has taken place in a short period of time. This is often, it might be expected, a income - rich group that is primarily reaching less expensive shelters because of high prices in the capital area, but that they continue to work daily in the capital area itself, and that they are expected to live on a private car. Then you might ask: Did some debate about it on the environment and transport committee what effect these ideas might have on the group and, in effect, the fundamental change as a form of curative ideas such as these lead to the proposed decision of this more efficient group looking for a more favorable payment to reduce their cost, but it is then met by large tax reforms in its transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u198	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson of inquiry. These points are extremely interesting. A senator entering, i.e. whether there was any assessment of demographic or social impact of road accounts or observed in the committee's work. Such assessments have not come to us on the committee. The ideas presented to the Committee are the products of a top-level working team. A secretary of transportation, but no assessment was made of the weight of these classes. I want to draw attention to it as well. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, then acting director of the Environment and Transport Committee, was in the media when he proposed that the sufferers get a discount on this price. Then I wonder who it is who pays for the discount to make a fortune, whether it's an individual. Then it will cut down the smaller groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u199	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think this is exactly what we're doing when it comes to the legalization and direction of the government. During weeks of driving, we have been able to have a well - funded transport program in our current tax collection system based on an entirely unpublished and unexploded plan for new financing means. Its scope is such that it cannot be put into words except that it is a fundamental change in transport funding. In fact, it brings to mind another very interesting aspect of the subject. A senator, who is the very discussion of the Scottish route that we will discuss here, and the effect on emissions or emissions from domestic flights. When we reduce travel costs, increase our frequency in some way or make our trip more accessible, more travel must follow, more travel. Although the tighter comparison says that in some case, it may be possible to see that the flight is less efficient than driving - possibly one person in a long way - I wondered if there was a discussion of the effect of this on the committee. What does it mean if we reduce the cost of international travel, how does it affect the frequency of travel, and so on, total emissions from the international flight?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u200	Yeah, like a whisk. paritaprevir Víglundsson points out that my criticism of subsidies on domestic flights, on top of existing ones, will be in the suggestions that will likely be further shaped for the rise in flights. The results of the transport secretary's work on these proposals provided a strict basis for the development of travel, but no plans for figures or rates, etc. I agree with what. Of course, a senator that, when we are making adjustments like this, which require much government spending, a very good diagnostic work must be done on their results and results. That's why I think this so-called integrated strategy, as boring as it sounds, must in fact be our guide when it comes to such extensive plans as the transport program is proposed. There is also an enormous amount of money that affects all of us, and it has to go ahead for many years. I think it's really important for us to have all these diagnostic work ready and, like, when it comes to the energy exchange, that we're ready for all the prep work we need to make a decision. Today we're here to watch that electric cars are only 1% of Iceland's automobile fleet. We may also be realizing that this loss of income that we have been talking about when we are talking about paying our dues is taking a bigger time frame than many have wanted to say. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u201	A respectable president. We'll discuss a transport plan here. Of course, a lot of things have come out, and I'm going to try to see if there's ever a chance I can keep repeating what's been said here, but I'm going to call attention to the issues that I think are most urgent. Of course, the aim of the transport programme should be to provide transportation readily, safe, economic and environmentally sustainable and to set goals for clear and positive development. The ideas that may have been most concerned about the currency, understandable. It can be said that in many ways this view is carried out, altered currency, and altered view of how we envision the construction of transport workers. I take my heart to this idea, and I'm loyal to it. I also refer to what is presented in the committee's opinion, that it is important to speed up the urgent transport process. All I hear is that we here at the council Hall agree on that. It is pointed out that the Habitat's economic climate is expected to reduce economic growth, so perhaps now time should be good for such projects. We know that during the last few years, public costs have been improved, but it seems that the next loss may be better accomplished by extensive transport projects. Then I'd like to point out what the greater part of its committee party says by permission of a president: The ◆ The more part emphasizes that we reevaluate the general cost, i.e. oil and fuel costs and automobile taxes need to be assured that such as taxation, there is no additional advantage in car owners, beyond the benefits of combustion and safe traffic flows, and improvement in the environment. I think it's a little key in these materials. Despite the fact that people may have differing opinions about the currency, whether we have talked about it enough or enough, I think most of them can say that it is important to speed up this process. It's for the benefit of society. It is a community - important project, transportation is one of the basics of each society, and it is of immense importance to us all, whether on the basis of safety and public health, climate, economics, or social matters. They come on all these things. I would also like to point out that the greater part highlights a moderate measure of spending and careful care that the amount of road tax will not be higher than that a user will be assured of a new project despite a tax. This will take into account the magnitude of the heart rate, but the exchange costs will be higher. A cashier should be electronic and free of discomfort or traffic traffic, and of course he needs to be concerned about the personal protection issues. Then, too, the majority of the members of the committee's list mention the need to consider that the payoff will be terminated after the construction is completed. I'm just stopping by and wondering how realistic it is. We know that even though there were paybacks in the Hapheve tunnel, there is still a significant cost in their maintenance. One factor is the development of a large - scale traffic fortress, but we know that it is also an important factor. That is why I think that it needs to be thought of in a way that will help. Then I also feel that I have reason to pronounce this sentence, with the permission of a president: The budget for transport is not expected to be reduced because of payment. I think that's a key factor. And it also says: ▪ It is proper to say that if government property is sold, it is important that the space for transport that is also useful for building wood, since the need is urgent. I think we can also ask ourselves, " Should I change some of the government's property to, for example? ' It's a means of transportation. I'll take into account the emphasis on making Eagle Road the fastest. Similarly, the committee's opinion assumes that it is possible for projects to begin once organization and design are completed and then called the next year in those materials. I can't help but stick around in public transport. I'm not going to repeat what has been observed here, we all know that driving in the capital area will increase considerably in view of the increase in the coming years. In fact, it has changed travel habits, but traffic is increasing. We will always need to consider our transport efforts. But we're just out of nowhere, out of a map, if we don't get into public transportation. Then we'll only be in some car's jam or pit all day with contaminating pollution, waste of time, and poor quality of life for the people and people who travel through the capital area. I can't believe that there are any objections to the importance of our growth in public transport, since every community we want to compare ourselves with is exactly that way. Then I must mention that the rural areas in the capital area have done enormous work in these areas. The country's government has met with members of different categories on the importance of these projects. People can have opinions about the word "city " and exactly what it means. But after a full-time job, I think it has been defined very well what is meant today when it comes to the city line project. It refers to the high quality of public transportation as it has been called, but it is really just special lanes for buses that can be of the larger type. They can drive straight up to the stop, so people don't have to get up. This makes access easier for baby cars, wheelchairs, and people who have difficulty walking. Waiting stations are also of a noble nature, and you can assume that at a waiting station you will see when the next bus will arrive. This, that the bus drives in a special space, saves a considerable amount of money. The biggest cost at Bus house. is human beings, like most companies in Iceland. When we see a bus stuck in traffic magic, I don't talk about when some of them come in in a row, we can easily figure out how much it costs to keep a wagon on the road magic. The current cost of employment is thus reduced, i.e. We can provide this service more effectively when the bus makes its way into special space. Then there is the great advantage, which, of course, is created by emergency driving in the capital area, and I think people trapped in traffic charms will see its importance, with the Land Hospital here at the westest point of the capital area, that emergency driving will be able to get to and from the settlements and that the Land Hospital. Of course, this is produced by the use of special lanes for buses or city lines, as it has been called. Then I'd like to welcome the adjustment form from the greater part of the environment and transport organisation that is added to a team, i.e. to work on a contract with a local community partner in the capital area for the construction of transport in the capital area, where the necessary improvements in existing public transportation, development and management of high levels of public transportation, stock repairs and footpaths will be emphasized. I'd also like to introduce to you that in the opinion of the Committee it is very much appreciated the urban and public transportation reports in the capital area and that the road was processed in cooperation with rural areas in the capital area. As far as I can see, most of the item agrees in that report. But then, of course, the financing comes. How are we to finance both the infrastructure and the city line business? I've said before in speeches that it's a cooperation project, of course, both state and country. So it's all around us, public transportation is not only driven by the state's regime but also in a state of three-way stairways. It is one thing to talk about public transportation in the capital area, while it is quite another to talk about public transportation in the country. I have at times felt a lack of a discussion about public transportation in the capital area, since we will be so preoccupied with our having to talk about public transportation in the country. But these are just two very different assignments. That's why I think we should approach them that way. They are very different, and as important as they may be in both places, the methods needed to achieve success vary greatly. Hv. paritaprevir The remains of Trausti Friðbertsson have mentioned the busload of Akureyri or Eglish, how long it takes to get in the street. Of course, most people can agree that this is not an acceptable service. Then we can ask ourselves: " Is the government's resources well spent on these wagons when the trip takes 7.5 hours - it wasn't from Akureyri? - and about 12 hours from Egls, I can't quite remember the numbers, but they were on those lines. Is it not, then, better spent on subsidies to provide flights from the region for those in the most distant part of the world? I'm totally ready to look at the ideas, and I'm pointing out that we're also talking about this as a climate. If we're driving empty wagons through the country or flying empty planes, we're sure we're not getting any success in climate. We must integrate this so that we will be successful and protect the public capital in a reasonable way. Then I can't let it pass to remind you that there's really no law on public transportation. We haven't given our communities the job of running public transportation. I think there's a certain kind of law lacking around this. This refers to the problems that have been caused by treaties with the rural areas for public transport where treaties have not been established, there has not been a baseless business. The funding coming from the government in public transport to these areas has not been sufficient for the operation. I'm not talking against us putting public transportation in the country, I don't want my words to be interpreted in that way, but I think it's necessary to look at them in comparison that public transportation in the capital area is costing more and less of the rural communities in the capital area or the taxpayers living here. That's the income of the bus bus. In 2017 alone, 1.9 billion fare, passengers themselves, 3.2 billion owners, or rural areas, and 0.9 billion, respectively, of these income share. And I don't accept the motion services of disabled persons into this which would, of course, lower the proportion of the state further. I think it's important to look at it in this light. In view of the need for further development of transport workers in the capital area, it is all well and full reason to review this agreement and review. But the importance of the State's involvement in the vital ministry of public transportation must not be forgotten. There must be a certain division between state and rural society. That's what we need to explain. Then I think the best way is to work through this and cooperate with the rural communities here in the capital area, which has a particular policy. I've got to get on a bicycle too. It is not to be overlooked, however, when talking about transportation in the capital area, bicycle riding is always more and more important. It's not just a footprint or just a road to travel for some amazing weirdos who ride in the way of the weather - and then I look at one set of faces. A senator. No, it's not. Fasting has increased very much, and all around us are involved in urban communities, i.e. active transportation, walking, riding, or taking advantage of public transportation I received a fine report from the chairman of the European Bicyclist Association that 54 European countries have established a specific strategy and plan to double the proportion of people who are using bicycle ride. I believe that there is good reason for us to make a special plan around bicycle riding and their importance. It is discussed in the Commission's opinion and has also been aimed at the budget that has come from the road model in bicyclists, i.e. So - called footpaths, should also be protected by root trails in the country. I have a complete understanding of that. In many places, if the weight of the roads is not broad enough, you would rather ride a special race. But then I'd like to remind you that a lot of this is the business. Who's going to run bicycle footpaths that go through a lot of rural areas? Who's going to shovel them or make sure that they'll be okay in a few years when the road is done? It is important not to forget. Here, in the capital area, it is hidden by our communities, but here we have larger, more powerful rural societies than in most parts of the country. These factors need to be considered. It's too little time. But I can't bear to mention also the changing proposals of the greater part. It is, in fact, registered as an amendment made by Jón Gunnarsson, but I think that at least a larger part of the environment and transport committee, and I hope for all the Environment and Transport Committees and the Council can combine on this change proposal, it is possible to correct what had been planned on the Kjalarnes and on the Westland roads. This is what the report says: ▪ When changing transport plans, it is not the purpose of the greater part to delay the completion of a project or to significantly reduce the performance rate. It is thus suggested that the fail of budgetary contributions to the Road of Skarhola be reduced to 400 million. K. in 2019 this work can be completed this year. There we are talking about a short chapter, especially from Skardolway to Langatanga or from Mosfellsville firehouse firehouse to the Mosfellsville High School of Mosfells, where there is 2+1-way, and where there is no separate road, there is a great pitch, and safety is not acceptable. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that this operation be launched in the spring, and it will be completed this year. I want to thank the Committee for having responded in a hurry because there was obviously some mistake, that it did not find its way into the committee's perspective at the outset that this was about to change. Then I will take the last few minutes to mention what is stated on page 18. 17 in the Committee's opinion of organizational matters and assessments of the environmental impact of action. I've said it so that I don't feel that our laws, whether they're assessing the environmental impact of our strategy, are not in good enough. There is no pressing and absolutely necessary work for society, whether it is a line layer, roads, or anything else, dependent on the fact that they can be reported at all levels, the environmental assessment value is short, each member of the community needs to undergo a major structural change, and then we have a geographic organization on top. So I've wondered, and I'm going to do it here again, whether certain aspects of this planning that extend over a number of rural areas simply belong in something called a national organization. I wondered if the process is normal, e.g. On a single electrical line somewhere on the Þingvalh and into the Hafnarfjörður that goes through four or five rural communities, a regional structure, a environmental assessment is granted, and can be reported for every member of the community, thus stopping a very important operation. That's what you think, for example. In the middle of a series of construction sites there, there was a negative outcome in the vast majority of the world's population. Of course, we can take as an example the road through the forest of Chets. Now I come from the rural sector, have been there for a long time working on organizational matters, was the head of a organizational committee in Mosfellsville for 10 or 12 years, and I feel that the independence of the rural community is important and that the authority is located there. But in the case of such large and important projects, I think we need to realize that there are boundaries and, in some case, a larger and more complete view of such projects is being made than can be done in a single rural society. I'm going to make this my last words. I even didn't use all the time, but I think I got over most of what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u202	President. Thank you. A senator's exhilarating speech, quite interesting. I'm the cowardly question of failure to legalize, that when it is attacked by a massive change in income and tax recovery and the management arrangements of road construction - how it communicates with our other goals, closely related. I'd like to say two things in the past. That's the question about how the focus on expenses compares with our focus on energy exchange, on our climate policy, and on the future expenditures of traffic, which I think are not addressed in these factors. Of course, we know that as we continue to reach our targets in energy exchange, we will need to replace the current currency arrangements. I don't see that this tax concept is particularly in line with the ideas that have been embezzled about some form of the combination of miles and carbon bills. It would be interesting to hear a point of view. A senator's opinion of whether this was sufficiently considered. Hv. A senator made the goal of a city line to talk about the subject, but it is disappointing when we discuss the 15 - year - old transport program that has not been answered the question of how the government will finance this enormously important project, especially the capital area. I'm asking why. A senator is content with the access of the government to the important work and the 800 billion promised on the part of the State Fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Forethought and carefulness when it comes to subsidies, tax returns, and public finances - I can certainly say that, they are very important. I understand that there might be a measure of fear, if it is the right thing to do, for members and citizens of the country, when we discuss new ideas in remuneration, as the charges are true. We know that changes are always difficult, and we need to take the time to talk through them. I understand that many people feel that this discussion had to take even more time. Then I'd like to remind you, though, that this has been done on a regular basis during the discussion, and I think that in all categories, people who have undergone it might be a good idea, is a question of implementation, timing, and so on. I consider this to be a very clear message to the executives that this is the way we see to speed up the important projects most of them are, I think, of which I agree that we have to go on. Hv. A senator asks me how I feel about this in the light of the energy exchange, and I like the way it rhymes with them. Me and what. A senator is on both a financial and business committee where we've just got a presentation on it. In spite of the importance of the energy exchange and the importance of having certain appeals, as we do, to encourage people to switch to environmental car change, we all know, as well as those who invest in such cars, that at some point we need to earn money to support our transport efforts. That's one idea. This is also an idea to speed up these projects that I think are important. I think it rhymes well. But I have to come to the edge of the city in another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u204	Mr. President. That's exactly what we need to do, and we're going to take a close look. Of course, the fact of meditation on charges is that two of the three governments expressed outright opposition to election charges. They are not mentioned in a government contract, and we have not seriously discussed them until they are in line with the current policy discussion. In fact, the current affairs of Congress have become a bit of a transpiration. That is why you wonder: " Why not give yourself more time? We all agree on the fundamental problem in our transport system and the importance of lifting a rock, especially around the capital area where traffic has grown very high, the incidence of accidents is high, and it is urgent to attack necessary improvements. Based on the amount of money involved, as is the total number of jobs mentioned in the next few years, you wonder if it would be much more reasonable to dispose of government property, such as in the banks, and to use it to finance these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u205	A respectable president. I think I will and will. A senator would agree on a number of matters, but I suppose that when we worked together in the government recently, we have agreed that dues could be a very reasonable idea. I can agree with that, too. A senator on the importance of releasing the government's property, to form in banks that work in a competitive market. But I reiterate what I said earlier: The discussion has been considerable. Should she have been greater or more permanent for a long time? I don't know. We are faced with a huge task now that is vital to resolve. Clearly, this is one way to complete that assignment. I think she's fine. We'll have more time to discuss this - realize that we're not, you're not, you're a respectable president, trying to get everything on the road around here in this great committee party, but we're going to get a bill from the highest level. A minister later where we can continue to discuss this. But the city line - now I am running out of time: I have always emphasized its importance in my talks. I'm very happy that she gets a little more weight here in the committee list of parts. [[The president calls.]] The most important thing, of course, is, as I said in my speech before, a respectable president, that this will be done in cooperation with the local community, which is exactly what the Treaty says. Of course, the State has to take part in the cost, that is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u206	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's jealousy. There was a lot of interesting things in it. I may want to focus on two or three things. The Senator spoke about organizational matters and discussed the problem that can develop in the process of carrying out tasks that cover many rural communities. Then perhaps there's something I want to talk to her about, i.e. in terms of two factors - the one with regard to traffic flow, i.e. that rural communities need to assemble in a regional organization that contributes to traffic flows, including city lines, but that organization within the rural community and disappears on the requirement that people can walk and ride in service in their surroundings, that they can actually adopt a life - style that is closer to being environmentally friendly than the private car. Then I'd like to ask the senator, if she has time, to discuss this further with the legality of public transport, i.e. In what way does the senator foresee this? This would likely be part of the community's role, but as the senator mentioned in his talk, she believes that at least that it would also be the role of the State. I just wanted to hear more speculation about how this might be done because I find this interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u207	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He initially entered the regional organization. In fact, it is impossible to plan a structure that is different from making plans for traffic. That is why the idea of a city line comes from the regional structure of the capital area. Of course, it does not seem that each member of the community expects to build for 1,000 people here or 400 people there or something, and no one is wondering how to get between them. This has to work together. That is why a city line is just a basic concept in the capital area's regional organization. It is also helpful to mention that the capital area is the only area that has to be legally established. In other areas, such as on smokejanes and elsewhere, it is optional. It's not legal that it needs to be. Here we go. A senator into what has often caused problems when the rural communities just look at their limit, and the footpaths do not walk between or by roads, biking. I think from my experience of working in the local capital area that it is busy working to change it. But everyone needs to be alert to the fact that transportation, of course, is going contrary to rural areas. Then I also need to mention what I could not mention earlier: The city line is not just about public transportation and improving the quality of life of those who make up for leaving Mosfellstown and Kpavogi into town. They are also, I think, the only practical way to build up a job area in the capital area. The rural areas around Reykjavík have been fighting for tens of years to obtain institutions and companies. It's been going very well in different ways. With this, we are making sure that those who build up on a city line - whether a job building or an apartment house - are located where the traffic flow is good. This adds up the possibility that we will use the infrastructure in both directions, so employment areas will spread better across the capital area, and we will stop this sleeping town thinking, that people have to go long distances to work. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to see a better distribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u208	Mr. President. I'd like a second answer to come in on something that can almost be viewed as a warning. A senator in the discussion of a quick recovery process. In her talk, she mentioned that it might be wise not to assume that all payment would be canceled by some particular project, to form in a tunnel with high maintenance costs and perhaps predictable by some other project. Then I'd like to introduce the senator to her whether she's thinking that this currency, if it were, would be in some other way, if it were lower, if we were to think of her on other terms, or if we could even think of another form, simply some other form, than this traditional form.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u209	A respectable president. I'm going to start by answering that question for a second. A senator asked me earlier about public transportation laws. I was pointing this out because we were here in 2016-2017 on passengers and cargo laws, I think that's what they said. Then we discussed this specifically, the safety details of every person involved in such a move. Farmers are primarily responsible for their law - given service, although they may, of course, render other services that benefit the inhabitants. But there is no one who says who should take care of public transportation, and it is a question of whether there is no need for laws to be legalized simply to take care of public transportation and to recommend who should do so. Of course, if it is the local community, it is normal for the government to pay part of it. For the currency, I may be referring more to what I have to say. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson asked me about the situation here, that we see changes in how we need to finance our pavilion system. I wondered, " Is it realistic to say that we will temporarily charge to drive a road, or to drive a tunnel to that person, or whether the cost of maintenance and other costs on the street require that it be extended in some way, even if the price may be lower? ' But I always imagined that we were using the same system. But this is exactly the beauty of the fact that we have not finished this discussion. We will have an opportunity to discuss this further, and this, of course, is one of the things we can consider in those areas, e.g. The extent to which we will pay in the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u210	It has been found that there were four young men. Senators who wanted to give an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u211	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, a lot of interesting things that were presented there. I believe this, and believe it, and think I'm right about it. A senator has more experienced former members of the local community. So I'd like to direct my first answer to the city line and wonder if. A senator may agree with me in saying the wishes that have come from the local Union in the capital area that along with these charges, there is a clear and financing agreement on the city line. To a certain extent, my rural society - now I'm trying not to think of the concept in English but in Icelandic - to trust these plans without having anything to do with it, there is a declaration of will on this agreement. I'm talking about the package, the city line being funded by a clear and binding agreement. I'm asking why. A senator cannot understand the wish that this should go together because it is not really possible to separate it. The idea of taking this road and the current model as we know it and then pushing the back of the city line - it is simply impossible for the inhabitants of the capital area. At the same time, I wondered if it's not natural, too, that the local community in the capital area had some access to the redesignment and had something to say about it, including... in connection with its own traffic policy, with green emphasis, traffic control, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u212	A respectable president. Yes, I can say that I can. As a matter of fact, the adjustment I read up here from a greater part of the environment and transport committee made sure of that, but it reads: It will be agreed by the Community Association in the capital area for the construction of transport in the capital area to the year 2033 where the necessary improvements in existing public transport, construction and management will be emphasized in public transport and quality of public transport, infrastructure and cycle and footpaths. I agree with that, and my speech repeatedly came out, and we have to work with the local communities. They've done a lot of work on this. I would even want to go far, wondering if we should have the road structure of the capital area or the transport plan of the capital area, if that is the case. But I agree with it. Of course, the transformation of this subject cannot be made any different than that we have already made sure of how we are going to apply it, including with a city line, but also other necessary infrastructures in the capital area. The SSH community is working on this through the Road Building. I am rather impatient, a respectable president, who has been working for a considerable time at the scene, and I realize that regional and organizational arrangements in the capital area and would like to see a city line become a reality tomorrow, but I realize that this may take some time. I would've liked things to have happened faster, but at least we're here, and I'm really happy. I will remain here to emphasize that this will work together with rural society in the capital area. If so, I would like to mention it as well. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson spoke of in his talk. He is now chairman of the United Nations, but he is also a member of the country. I was very pleased when he spoke of the importance of the construction of the country and its capital area and how important it is for the region that the capital area is strong, just as it is of great importance to us in the capital area that the region is strong. So the city line and transport structure in the capital area are not just the people in the capital area but the affairs of the entire country and, of course, all who visit us, the tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u213	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Most likely, the difference between us is that I feel unacceptable that at the same time as here this radical change in financing of the capital area will be followed by the word "Uzekiel funding of the city line. " I think it needs to go together, work things together, and finish them all together. That's where it's at. I'd like a second round, have a shorter time, to focus on it as fast as possible. In his talk, a senator welcomed the changes made in the section on Eaglenes Road and expressed joy that this road was part of the ideas of the greater part. On the other hand, I would point out that he is there if space is next on the roads. The change is now a different suggestion for the part's memory. It's simply because we're going to finish this road because it's unacceptable that the situation is at the same high level of activity, making such demands on fire departments, causing more people to make serious remarks, the mayor's call, is left hanging on the fact that there's work here to be done on special charges, and a gate to be carried out here in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the light of safety, it can be. Don't you think a senator would agree that this project needs to be carried out? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u214	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u215	A respectable president. I don't know if there's a lot of difference between me and that. A senator on how important it is to complete an agreement with the rural communities on urban development and, of course, how the cost will be divided. In view of the greater part, it is proclaimed that the bill comes from the highest level. Minister on these suggestions, i.e. target, this is scheduled in March. I know a group is working, agents of SSH are working with the Vega processing this on the city line. I demand when we do this, how we're going to go to the important infrastructure that the city line is, as I said before, for the whole country. I think that's what we're talking about. When I was referring to Eaglenes Road, a senator heard something wrong. I was referring, on the one hand, to the change of plans for the Westway and Skardolway, but I also mentioned the importance that in the Commission opinion, more is involved in making Eaglenes Way work as fast as possible so that projects can begin once organization and design are completed. [[The president calls.]] I'll agree with that. This is a huge security matter. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it was never time to take Eaglenes'road out of a transport plan, it was a mistake, and I should never have done it, and of course I would have wanted to see it come in, but trust that this important way will be soon taken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u216	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for the talk was very clear and clearly covered a wide range of relationships that I had not previously understood. This has been discussed as the most urgent means of transport for safekeeping, traffic-weighted etc. Everyone agrees that there will be a transport improvement in the capital area, there is no disagreement, and for good reason. Something else has been said during the discussion, and why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson might listen now, but like hell. A senator has spoken is the prerequisite for paying the due fees, i.e. that the expense it saves actually will come back to some of the perks, but it will still be a total gain in paying dues. - But here was the connection I made with my speech. Senator: During our review of the city line, the stage set for an increase with or without a city line is always in plus, i.e. Whether we go to a city line or not, we always have more traffic. According to VSO advice and analysis, there will be a 25% increase in total travel time, although 100 billion projects will be carried out, which means that people don't save on travel time, fuel costs, or anything else. People don't save anything paying dues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u217	A respectable president. Hv. I'm sure a senator would refer to what I read from the committee opinion, with the permission of a president: ▪ The greater part believes that great opportunity lies in the ideas of road charges, but they can enhance and speed up transport benefits for society all. Further implementations are based on the fact that additional funding from road expenses and agreements are soon reached between the state and rural unions for projects in the capital area. When we talk about traffic in the future, we have either looked to the year 2030 or the year 2040. By 2040 it is estimated that 70,000 more people live in the capital area. It's Hafnarfjörður, Gardenside, and almost Mosfellstown, too. As people grow to this extent, obviously more pressures on our roots are being put on. All traffic calculations show that if we don't go to the city line, we'll be in queues and in pollution clouds and all of that, but by going to the city line, traffic will only increase by 24%, something like that. Of course, if you drive through the capital area, you will profit from taking on an important infrastructure, both city lines and building projects. You can't just look at one way or the other, we have to wear both of them. That's why I think this is an important social remedy. Whether we turn it out in crescent and penary gasoline, in memory of pollution, improved human health, increased traffic security, or a better community, I believe the profit is always there. That is why I have full faith in that process, and it brings us important projects sooner than ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u218	A respectable president. Everyone agrees that the project needs to be carried out sooner, just for the reasons that were traced. The fact, though, is that for people who are in traffic, total traffic time comes to an increase. Their costs of driving thus increase, both because traffic is higher and because of traffic costs. Those who are driving will not save any time on the road, they'll just have to happen. That's all there is to it. Despite transport improvements, however, transport time will be increasing, and as a result, no one will save time or fuel from traveling through the new roads, it will further cost them more, more time, more fuel, or more electricity, and people will also pay for roadtolls. So there is no savings, such as. it was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, that there would be savings in time and fuel that would disband the charges and would mean net spades for the driver. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u219	A respectable president. I'm wondering if it's getting too late for this kind of depression, but I don't quite understand why. Senator, I have to admit it. I think it's very important to take this up with the public that when we discuss city lines and improve transportation in the capital area, we don't discuss things as they are today, because we in this room should always be looking to the future, and that's what we need to do. We need to make sure that in the year 2040, although there will be 70,000 more residents in the capital area and a number of tourists will certainly have doubled from today's situation, people can make their journeys relatively comfortable in a fairly safe way, without us getting caught up in crap, as it were. By taking the steps presented here, we will be able to carry out the activities that are absolutely necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u220	Mr. President. We'll discuss a transport plan, two transport plans totaled until 2033. I want to thank you at the beginning of the discussion. The Environment and Transport Committee for the work she has worked for, both the greater and the smaller parts, and the two groups for her committees. As shown in the discussion, the communication that we have here today is an enormously important preparation for the continuation of the discussion and to bring about the end of things that are not new in this program, to form exactly how we are going to manage the transportation system, how we are going to think permanently and how we are going to achieve the goals that we as a community have committed to achieving climate and our commitments in the general environment. Much of the discussion today and indeed the past few days, and I feel somehow over the past few weeks and months, has been charged, both in the sense that we need a system that can finance the transport system for a long time, when we get out of the carbon system we are in now, and also a payment to speed things up - these are actually two different ways. I may feel that this fundamental thought has been talked to me a little. We've earned a considerable amount of money in the last few years and decades of oil and gasoline. With as a community, or at least we as political movements, i.e. Left green, have declared that we don't want those charges. We do not want money to flow into the state's budget. So we want to get out of the carbon system. Then we owe ourselves to accept that discussion. And then what? So, we're going to deny ourselves this income stock entirely, i.e. income stocks of traffic, and finance transportation entirely by public tax? Or we're actually going to stick to the model we've been sticking with for the past few years, i.e. that those who buy gasoline and oil in their cars may pay dues? That's the way it is today. We want to get out of this system, but we also want money to finance the system. It's a matter of decision, what to say, two in this discussion. How can we make these two come true? It is obvious that some projects will never depend on them, and we also need to discuss them, with road chairs, with roads, or with what we call them, whether they are short - term projects or some long - term fees. Yet, such projects are of utmost importance. Because we really believe that there is a need to be able to live in all over the country, that we as a nation can get to where we want to come in a reasonably reasonable way. A number of members of Congress have made their entry today. In this regard, it is important to note that it is just as important for the capital population to get out into the country or to travel abroad as it is for rural people to move to the city or from one country to another in rural areas. These are everyone's common interests. I want to get to Akureyri in a relatively safe way and in a reasonable time, just as Akureyri might want to come to Reykjavík or Kópavogs, so you don't talk about it. Some powders have been discussing who pays and that paying is unfair taxation, or unreasonable taxation, more than anyone else, or the laying on of people. It's actually the same thing in my mind that those who buy oil or gasoline on their cars - cities that use, it's exactly the same konsept. I'm willing to take that up with some senators if we're going to get out of that model completely, but I expect the same senators to be prepared to offer suggestions on the general tax elevations I'm prepared to discuss with all honesty. I'm not sure there's a general sound foundation here in this room to go to a general tax increase to earn money to finance the road system. Let us see that the money the state earns from fuel sales is not just fuel and oil tax but also a valuable tax. I guess he'd fall out too. So we are talking about a lot of money. In the environment, it is very important to remember that we have accepted a certain commitment, we are going to make Iceland nothing of carbon in the year 2040. Then we all have to put our hands together, and then we have to watch to make the most of the traffic where most people drive, to be environmentally environmental, which is today. Then I'm primarily talking about the capital area. We've got most of the cars here, and we've got to find a way to change it. The city line is to my mind the obvious possibility or the marvelous growth of public transport in the capital area. It's a happy thing to say now, that this will be a cooperation project of the state and community. As indicated in a committee list. The Environment and Transport Committee - I can hardly remember anything on which pages - is basically assumed to be a joint cooperation project of the state and rural society and financed half of both. I think this is very important. Only a flight has been mentioned in connection with public transportation. Then we'll come back to the importance of living in the country, at least That's what I know. We know that there is no fairness in that if we are going to be here with a community where everyone should be able to use services, where everyone can pursue a service, to create here in the capital area that may be, at least in some cases, the only place where a certain service is available, we must make sure that the people everywhere will be able to arrive at a critical time to the capital. There will never be a drive from the outside or a public transportation, or a bus from Langanesi. Unfortunately, it won't be, or it won't come from an Aurorachnosis. Then we will have to wonder, " Can I find a way to run out of transportation, such as to form a flight? ' I think the idea that men have been discussing here today, and have been thinking about in this transport program, is fine, and should be trying to make it better - it's been called the Scottish way, something like that. There's also been a discussion of security in this regard. The importance of transportation cannot be exaggerated. Unfortunately, there are hundreds of Icelanders who have serious accidents every year on the highways, and we know that theirs and even a large proportion of the accidents caused by our road system are not prepared enough to take over the traffic we expect. We're going to be a tourist country, and we're going to continue making money from tourism. Then we must be able to offer the benefits of these same secure, secure tourists, and will be able to do only in a spectacular way to reach the country. In this regard, too, I would like to mention the road that a few members of the Parliament have used today, not enough, but a bicycle. There is tremendous growth in the world's bicyclist movement, including Iceland. The terrible thing in Iceland is that bicycle riders are increasingly trying to follow their way down a highway one in a very dangerous situation for bicycles, for bikers, Here in the capital area, we find that the site where footpaths have been built is full of wheels. This is shown by the fact that rural areas in the capital area have made it a huge challenge to build a bicycle race path, make bicycles more easy to deal with, and make easier transportation, have increased bicycle riding. I think at least. not that bicycle riding has increased particularly because the weather improved so much or because of less wind in the capital area. The weather is exactly what it was, but bicycles have increased dramatically. If there is a set of measurements, a similar number of people or even more travel on a bicycle are now taking place than in public transportation. That's a sobering thought. There are real numbers like someone came on, there aren't just some chestnuts that ride, there are all kinds of people. I'd just like to talk about my district, the district for which I am a senator, a Southwestern district. We are a natural part of the capital area, and we are, as it turns out. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir before, a part of the regional structure of the capital area, all these rural communities. Hence, all transport improvements in the capital area are of great importance to the population of the district. Eaglenes Road, like some senators, is one of the accidents in the old transport programmes, i.e. They bailed him out. I think I'm right to remember that it was some time in the season 20136/2016 that the last piece of Eaglees Road fell on account of a transport plan, and there was a big accident. Now's the time. The Environment and Transport Committee has a small contribution to the implementation of Eagle Road. I think it's very important. I think it's a fundamental point, not only to improve traffic flow, but also a great security issue, for the top Kopavog's building to form, that these roads, which I would like to call, which is not a long way, will be finished. Then I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The comical life of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir on the side of the road between Skarholway and Langatanga in Mosfellsville, which is part of a highway one, the piece needs to be finished naturally. At the end of the talk, I'd like to establish only the way we should use quick/data charges to promote improved traffic culture or other traffic culture in the capital area that I believe is very important. A few of them. Councilmen have named Oslo as an example in this regard. I believe it is very important to look there, using those tata- or regional fees that are chargeable to improve public transportation, to use the capital for it, and to ensure that by billing a nonessential round to the city, which could follow other routes, we may increase the likelihood that those who actually have to get with cars around the area can do so in a relatively pay way. I'll mention it to make emergency cars and stuff like that. I want to agree with that as well. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said about the city line in terms of emergency driving. That is exactly the most important safety element in the capital area, since all of us have ever seen rescue cars almost stuck in traffic on priority lights and little or nothing happens. Mr. President. I think I just finished the points I wanted to discuss specifically. I look forward to the continuation of this discussion, and I view it as part of a forward bill that is likely to come from the highest level. The transport secretary in March or April on the funding of the transport system, and then a discussion of the expected transport programme, as foretold, will return in the autumn months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u221	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's great deal for him to review this complex matter. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator only entered his class, the left green, and pointed to national meetings release that the party was opposed to the pressures of roads. You wonder how this conversation with what is being suggested today, i.e. that there will be extenuating charges on various kinds, both by energy exchange and by individual projects and by tunnels. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator with the prejudicial ideologies, that it is best for those who use, while at least We as superiors have rather adhered to the policy that those who can pay. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson also said that he was willing to go up to public taxes. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's opinion of the less important suggestions for performing the necessary tasks, the most urgent projects proposed by the Roadmaker to be put in the first place for security purposes, and how. The senator will consider the financing proposal suggested by the lesser part, i.e. canceling the cost of subsidies, costing a government budget of 3 billion a year, cancels bank tax reduction, which costs, for example, 3 billion a year. Seven billion a year, and laying the cost of coming and leaving in foreign tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u222	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vól Helgadóttir for the answer and questions. I don't recall mentioning VG's discovery in my speech, but as some other senator said earlier tonight, it's late, and I can't remember. I still think I remember. But there may be a miscommunication. This contradiction with the political organization I represent is that on the other hand, we want to continue funding our transport system in a similar way that has been done, but on the other hand, we are the group that wants to go the longest in disappearing from oil and fuel costs, i.e. by stopping buying gasoline and oil. There's the problem. Therefore, the idea of charges in my mind is primarily a phase difference, not a difference of nature. These ideas continue to be maintained, those using most of the fuel and oil plunge into those who make the most use of the roads and who pay for them. In a sense, this is where the pollution - saving policy is, and we can no longer rely on laying pollution charges on subsidies that are negligible and that we want to disappear. Somehow it needs to be handled. In terms of the general tax increase and the suggestions of my share, it is in particular that I have seen that this money has been spent all over the world, in the suggestions as well as at least [[The president calls.]] Groups... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u223	...was not approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u224	Men have suggested that the money they brought by raising the price of hunting would be used to raise child - welfare, now to be used in funding roads, etc. [[The president calls.]] You can't use the same money twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u225	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u226	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It may be right to make a decision that the United States proposals, when it came to subsiding the budget, were not approved. The proposal to prevent the transfer of $3 billion to developers was not approved; nor were the UN's agreed suggestions on how to use it. Just so the government gave the United States proposals. But I just want to move on with that question. Hv. A senator says that instead of fuel and oil fees, there's now a tax cut. Got it. A senator's proposals and a majority of the environmental and transport committees so that you will pay either oil and gasoline fees or road taxes? [[The president calls.]] That is not what can be read from the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u227	Mr. President. No, it's not like that. In order to encourage people to choose an environmental vehicle, we are talking about, on the other hand, that on their dying foot people continue to pay their gasoline and oil costs and pay them both while they are at it. [[And pay them both?]] This should be the motivation for getting people to change energy sources or to lean more on public transportation. It is important, too, to say that there is now a why. A senator discussing the suggestions of the United States on tax issues submitted to Christmas. The suggestions were, as the senator rightly came to the fore, so that the amount of money needed. A senator is talking about how we should use the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u228	A respectable president. Hv. Senator. You can't even use the money once if it's not collected. Remuneration is unfair taxation, however. The senator, and the citizens who use it. That is exactly what was criticized in the case of the U.S. automobile owners. No. Paybacks are not exactly those that pay which are used in the same way as those charges collected by the pump, such as the pores. A senator made a comparison, too. For two houses side by side, e.g. In Grindavik, where one of the people often drives into town, once a day, while the other drives once a week - often taking discounts. As a result, there is a difference in cost to the pump for those who pay road fees because one who runs often pays much less money to get a discount card while the other does not, or cannot afford it, because he cannot afford to balls out 70 thousand for a year card, 100 travel cards, or something about dead bodies, and a much higher town. Right by the pump. The difference now between fuel costs, as it is, is that no one is getting a special discount on what is being pumped out of the fuel pump. While it is very variable how to pay dues in terms of discounts and other items. So I'd like to hear an opinion. A senator's comparison of this comparison, since I didn't quite get her to fit, this analogy with the idea that fuel costs were also taxable. I understand that, but fuel costs are not the same in terms of pay-use as those premium charges, out of discounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u229	Mr. President. Now I have to admit, I didn't quite get to follow the argument. But a senator believes that what he meant is that because there were no discounts for those who were big users in gasoline and oil, this would not be comparable to those who were given a huge discount on alleged charges. Yeah, it might be this way. Is the senator suggesting, though, that we try to figure out a system like this out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u230	There is no fairness in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u231	I'm not gonna turn that bulb on. On the other hand, if we enter the system that has not been determined, a certain reasonable conclusion may be in order to do so. But I'm not quite sure I understand what's going on. A senator is leaving. However, the matter is, and what has been discussed in the discussion is that some elected persons would pay most of the dues of a verse that they do not have to pay anything right now. But it's the same group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u232	A respectable president. Just at the end of here. If applicable, they are definitely paying their share right now, for they pay the fuel fees as they do everyone else on the pump, paying their dues. But only to the bank tax and fishing fees and the less share proposals. Then we are in the state's collapse now that the state took on the fall of banks and things like that and also, in fact, a very massive cut-off that led to this infrastructure that we now live in, this dazed road system. We've paid off the loans we took because of the swellings of the banks, etc., with the bank tax and closing the swelling farms, but we haven't finished the infrastructure yet. Why should we cancel the bank tax before we finish the deposit? The same with the hunting fees. The transport is a major part of the maintenance of the transport system, so it is quite normal that it is even paid through the fishing costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u233	Mr. President. Yeah, that's right. Travellers will probably give some money in there and, as a matter of fact, they will now and they will also pay for it. You know, about the bank tax, maybe especially. Of course, it is always a question of when to start lowering the bank tax. There may be a wide range of viewpoints in this regard. One view is that by - or hopefully by a decrease in the bank tax, the growth in the country decreases. Let us assume that consumers will enjoy it in something. It can be of great importance to all, including those who pay dues. There's a lot of people out there. I think we need to find a way to continue funding the road system. At least no one in this discussion points to something better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u234	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's well-traveled. It should be noted at the beginning of a discussion of charges that I do not personally object to charges, but it is very important to believe that they are wise and properly implemented. I have doubts about the fact that this matter has been seriously considered. I am also surprised at how fast the left green has run away from his very clear campaign program that this is absolutely out of the question. I'm not going to complain of it any more than that statement. A senator just before he liked a drop in bank tax, which I strongly support. But there's one thing I'd like to ask myself. A member of the previous contrast: How does this affect individuals and possibly in different ways? Today, when we finance our road system with fuel costs, we pay the biggest spends, the largest cars relatively, or paid most of it on a mile [1 km] during the cheapest cars in my cities. It is also a matter of distances. We have talked only to people who have sought more favorable, less expensive housing, e.g. Moving from the capital area to the east of Selephos, you find work in the capital area every day. It seems to me that if an individual had, e.g. A small car that spends between five and six litres on the hundred and the owner has to pay a price, which I have heard is about 300 bucks. Either way, it would be a 50% rise in the road back and forth for the individual. Indeed, it is very burdensome for a person who is trying to improve his standard of living and reduce his living expenses by moving east and moving to work in the capital area. That is why I wonder, with group like left green: Have you carefully considered how this kind of course turns on income - bearing groups that have a long way to go to get a job?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u235	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is opposed. At the beginning, he complained that the left green had fallen quickly from his convictions in the matter. For many years, I have wondered, " How could I continue to finance the road system? ' After a very thorough discussion in the fall, I have come to the conclusion, and actually more of my associates, that this is the way that is at least a change from the system we have today, i.e. To fall from the oil, because we will, and fall from it to the price. The Senator asked who would pay the most. Today, those who drive most pay, otherwise. It continues to be that way. The most drivers continue to pay the most. I can imagine some of the way we could do the Norwegian way, but they have a lower cut on environmental cars and were at least for a time with a lower road rate on cars that used less carbon energy. I would absolutely like to examine such pathways for a environmental purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u236	A respectable president. It is not unusual for those who spend most of their money. However, especially when speaking of root vessels to and from the capital area, it must be kept in mind that the inhabitants of the peripheral capital area, i.e. increasing by thousands in recent years in the city area and in the area of Réjanes, Aquilini, and the area of New York. People may be looking for a more favorable home and thus reduce the cost of living. This will have a significant effect on people who go to work in the capital area every day. I'm happy to hear what you're thinking. A senator's requisition of potentially environmentalized vehicles to pay less taxpaying, but this brings back to the question, " Could not the same purpose have been achieved for the increased financiality of the road system with carbon taxes and further contribute to our goals in climate change and energy exchange? ' In the context of this, you are concerned that the amount of carbon pay is actually being reduced in proportion to the total cost of driving and actually working against our targets on energy exchange and climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is so important when we discuss ideas such as spending a far - reaching price that there is some harmony with our policy in other matters, to form in energy exchanges and climates, that they work with us but are not neutral or even working against us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u237	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson asked if the carbon taxes were not a more reasonable route. If we looked at the point position today and believed that carbon pay would continue to be a significant amount of tax possession, we might want to take a closer look at it, but we're not going there. We're leaving the carbon energy system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u238	It's been quite a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u239	Not that long, huh? Senator. I have seen predictions that within the next five to ten years, the State's income of gasoline and oil can be reduced by as much as half. I know why. A senator hopes that his government's income will be no more by the year 2040. Then we must keep our minds fixed on the next step. I think we're starting with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u240	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a second session of transportation. She has had extensive coverage at the council. Today's seminar shows that this subject is almost very important to all of us, since easy and productive transport is, of course, the basis for today's powerful progressive society. This is the first time it was between five and 15 years of age. Prior to this, plans for four and 12 years have been proposed, but this is a turning point in which the first time it is submitted a transport programme to 15 years of age, in line with the integration and harmonization laws. The presentation is simpler and clearer, and there are ideas of action. The purpose of the transport strategy preparation is clear and defined by projects. These include easy transport goals, and the transport system is viewed as a whole, as a bicycle ride, a flying tour policy, public transportation, information for tourists, and more. In fact, security targets are being set for transport, and around it we are able to reduce the number of accidents. Individuals and communities have lost too much of it. Strategic transport targets are also being followed by projects. The aims of sustainable transport are probably to be set out today. It rhymes with government action on climate. The aims of positive urban development are important to all of us, so a nationwide scheme was reached. An example of an aim-to-target job is the definition of job application and school areas and the subsidence of air traffic costs. The five-year plan is a plan of implementation, which is now presented with financial contributions and fully in accordance with official financial matters. It is an important and large stage in itself that shows responsible financial management and a vision for the future. This type of work is important so that you can look forward to the future and put forth a set of provisions. This is not a list of wishes. It is a realistic, financing plan. That's an important stage. V.E.G. President. Transport is the foundation of the economic system. Good transport lays the groundwork for the nation's competitiveness and quality of life in the country. As the proposal to 15 years of age shows, good transport and communications technology are the basis for living in an independent society today. Research has shown that the development of the environment in the country and the development of the transport system affects one another. The network is the nation's lifeline, and it will soon be overrated because transportation is not just a matter of transporting people and cargo into land, sea, and air; transport has always been accompanied by the transport of information and ideas. A major revolution has taken place in this area, and information technology will have a major bearing on the future development of transport. V.E.G. President. The aim of the forwarding of a transport program is long and consists of consultations and conversation so that priorities and professional work on it can be made. Transport plans include funding and spending all aspects of transport, i.e. Air traffic, road, shipping, including public transportation, ports, marine defences, security and transport environment. The stage is wide, in fact, affecting all aspects of society and hence all the inhabitants of the country. So conversation and consultation are important. The one present has been appointed to take the lead in the transportation program and work with it. In the Council's commission from the minister stands word for word, by permission of the president: "It is important to contribute to integrating the transport system as a whole to serve citizens of the country, tourists and commercially. The variety of ways to strengthen existing transport systems and develop the needs of public and employment and the complex role and security of the transport system should continue to be developed. Safety and based considerations are high, i.e. to improve local housing quality and to strengthen job structure. A Transporter's aim is to establish an 11 formal meeting and meeting with more than 300 sources. In addition to these formal meetings, with member of the rural, rural, sectoral organizations, the representatives of the Free Associations Associations, and the tourism agency, it was widely discussed with other members of the public strategy. Communication plans, rural and national planning, tourism, public health policies, climate Action Plans, and so forth have to be carried out. The agreed process ended with a legal transport session. summer. The results of consultation are of the utmost importance: Security was emphasized in every part of the world. Increased visual monitoring and a decrease in the maximum rate needed are called. Lowering the maximum rate may be a powerful way to reduce the number of accidents that are too high and are taking excessive toll. This has already been a failure, as we have seen in the news. It's interesting to know that less than half of the road system is bound to break. I'm sorry, it's not true. The evidence shows that people want to set priorities so that new projects will be emphasized in the areas in which they have lived. Clearly, most people want to continue to be organized. The plans for improving public transport and emphasis on internal growth are made in part. It was called upon to strengthen the ransom fund and to strengthen transport routes. Travellers want to support a fixed international flight to more locations, and it was noted that it is important to maintain the survival of tourists in the highland area by e.g. unbrided rivers to be mentioned. There has to be something that needs to be as soon as transportation is urgent in general and everywhere. Then there is the need to hear about the inhabitants of the country but to be willing to consider a variety of financing methods and to cooperate with them where appropriate. It has not been overlooked for those who have followed this discussion that there will be a talk on financing methods, but here we will discuss a road transport program that is funded and with clear targets for safety. Only slight changes in tasks have been made in the case of the Commission. These changes are due to job positions in the Road Building and to the normal implementation of projects due to their progress. In this regard, we have discussed the possibility of changing financing methods. We simply have to think outside the box so that we can speed up the work programme and achieve the goal sooner to build up the network of transportation. V.E.G. President. The strategy takes into account and is part of a comprehensive integrated policy in transport, communications, rural and rural affairs. It is in accordance with the Generals and the Government's agreed plans. The current strategy for the council shows a change and improvement in plans. For the first time, it is in accordance with the expected budgets adopted by the General Assembly on budget 2019/2023. A communication plan is a practical document for projects that can be attacked in the years to come. The Treaty states that the government wants to speed up road construction and other transport activities, both by new and maintenance. This work was immediately done, and the maintenance of the road system has never been more than in the past year. During the past few years, urgent maintenance projects and cumulative problems were dealt with. Over the past year, 12 billion were given to make significant improvements in order to ensure successful traffic security. The programme aims to increase the budget to 10 billion dollars. This year, 2019 C.E. A total of 160 billion are expected to be used in the maintenance and construction of the road system for the next five years. V.E.G. President. We did get far with this amount, but it does not flinch to meet the meeting problems as fast as we would like. Thus, the secretary of transportation has suggested that this amount can be doubled by means of a means of financing. We need to make good use of such provisions, since we are in a position to speed up urgent and important tasks. The recent extensive discussion of a wide variety of financing methods will help us to progress and increase the likelihood that we will make a decision. The conversation will lead us on. One of the aims of the transport programme is to plan positive development and to improve habitat quality, i.e. that transport is as simple, reliable, and safe as possible with special emphasis on national and regional cores within it. I am not going to give this talk a special assignment, but in this regard we can include such projects as the Langanes Beach, which is certainly important in a regional view and, in fact, to continue building up in the community it belongs to. All communities are important links in the country's settlement chain. The transport system as a whole must be considered as a whole with the aim of it to serve people and commercially in an efficient way. All measures are under way to maximise security, protect human life, and to provide equal protection for those nations that are primarily in security. At the end of the 15-year schedule, the goal is to have built up the network of transport. It is a major objective that needs to be determined on the basis of safety guidelines in setting priorities. This can be rushed by the change in financing. That happens through conversation and cooperation. V.E.G. President. It's urgent to ensure the safety of all the people of the country and our guests throughout the country. The aims of safe transport are an important factor and emphasis on the security of all decisions, priorities, and transport practices regardless of travel practices. But their goal is to protect human life, and Iceland's survival is equal to the countries that are on security at the same time. V.E.G. President. The task facing is so varied that when you look at the distance between the sea and the sky, it is between them. They not only turn to the national road system but also to airports and ports. Increased funding for air management is expected, but more is needed if sufficient. The country's changing management systems are aimed at ensuring a better management and maintenance. I agree with the suggestion of the greater part, and the emphasis is on flying. It is important to start working with an increased flight security system through the use of the backup beacons and to achieve the impact of the modified arrangements as soon as possible. The U.S. Air Policy will be arriving soon and hopefully no later than next year when a 100 - year - old flight in Iceland will arrive. Flight is an important part of the transport system, and when it becomes practical, with the use of subsidies in the spirit of the Scottish route, we certainly improve quality of life and living conditions. Then I would also like to mention one factor that the greater part points to in its members. This is of importance to ensure that there is assistance to the airport and there is a exercise airport. There must be a basis for this to continue to exist in a strong class of people working in that field. In addition to needs for maintenance, many have come to a place where much maintenance is needed. Many members of rejection have reached their final turn, and we need to make a big effort. Hence, contributions to the Re backwater Fund have never been more important, and transport plans have never been made that during the first period, there will be a first-time cruise policy for Iceland, which aims to increase the economic growth and sectoral development of shipping and related articles. It must be important to an island nation. Transport affects our daily lives and the decisions made by the government. Although more money is being given now than ever before, representatives of the Committee show that all visitors who attended the committee agreed that this was not enough. Besides, I can't hear people I'm talking about. We're all users on this system, so we have its best interests at heart, and it's important to our lives. If we are to reach an acceptable location for security, environment, transportation and network services, we must find ways to speed up projects in the coming years. This means that there are other methods of financing that must be considered, as it has been so many times. They need to be different from what they are now. Transport, as mentioned, affects all of us. They are, in fact, the largest community as they are also health, education, welfare, environment, culture, and employment. However, the fact that we have the wisdom to build up the system we have is the basis for our living with the welfare that we have on this land. We will discuss much about these matters. It means everything to us. If we're going to build up the country and we're going to take advantage of every opportunity, promote employment, connect with regional cores, expand our education system, say we have health services all over the country, then transportation has to be okay. They hang with other infrastructures that are fiber optics all over the country, and it's a pleasure to provide for the end of a project that was once called a light for the fish, and to explain exactly what it is. The way we deal with all of this is important. What a pleasure it has been to observe the discussion here today! We don't care about these things. We all have opinions about them, so we need to take time to talk about these matters, and we need to find ways. Of course, we have a different view of all of this, that's just normal, but all of us want to put our safety first. We need to view the transport system as one continuous unit that serves all the people and commercial interests best. This is one of the main objectives of transport. This plan is presented in many ways beyond that. It's presented in a simpler way, in a clearer way. It is reserved for all the major projects. Under them are so named other tasks. So we are facing a number of challenges. These are excellent developments, and it's been nice to come to this job and get people's views across the country. I dare say that there has been no criticism of the main goals set out. They endure the test of time, standing for what they say. All of us agree that security needs to be on top and above and around. We also need to look to other viewpoints, such as the geographic principles, justice, and so forth, as I often said in many specific means of transportation. The task is screaming and urgent here where the biggest traffic weight is, most of the people are, but there are so many other tasks. Many children throughout the country travel daily with school cars on dangerous roads. They're just as important as everyone else. We need to find a way, and that's why I hope that we have the chance to move all of this together so that we can build up our foundation and we can say that it's ready and then we can start looking at it from another point of view. We can get back to work, for example. that by creating various rounds that would strengthen job life and tourism across the country and in real life can create a system in certain areas and connections that we may not have the resources to go to now but would really support the job life. With a clear vision and a firm follow-up, we will achieve these important goals, thus strengthening our country - wide living opportunities and increasing our opportunities for continuing to build up our community. I just want to thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here today. It's been really fun watching her, and she'll probably continue tomorrow, tops. Mr President, and I will continue to observe with full interest and attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u241	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I'd like to take a deeper look at one of the topics she raised, which are maintenance of the road system, and increase the cost of maintenance because of the increased traffic. As noted in the reference to budgets and the environment and transport committees, they are mainly attributed to heavy vehicles, not cars, but to heavy vehicles. You have to wonder if the roads can handle it in the first place. It also showed that according to EuroRAP standards, very many roads are not properly marked. The various roads marked by C8 in the road data are just C7 roads according to all of the strictest standards, and thus have not seen as much traffic as much. Is the transport system really worse than it appears to be doing on paper, especially in the analysis of industrial organisations on the extent of both transport needs and the need for maintenance? What role plays an increase in heavy transport when stress and cost, which, in fact, should be spread in place of the passenger's passenger or the one who drives his small car every day and does not wear out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u242	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. So much has changed in our society. The requirements have changed immensely. We always want to be able to move in places that add to the pressure. It's not just us in those cute little cars that pass the roads, it's all of us, and the rest of us are very influential in the rise in tourists. They have added and the cost comes with such a trend, which, in other respects, is very positive. Heavy migration took place a few years ago. It's not long since the heavy transport took up the coast, people took advantage of it. Now it is completely altered by the changes in industry and other such, fresh transport and fresh foods. There is a requirement that everything will reach its fastest destination, and then this route will be gone. Let us not forget that the paying is an extra tax, a heavy tax, of heavy transport cars. They pay more than the little cars, and you can't overlook them. Thus, there is not only a change in community structure but also a change in standards and emphasis. Not long ago, people didn't go through the winter, for they were all incapable of doing so. Because I knew the best way to the northeast corner, it was impossible in the fall. Then maybe we didn't go anywhere. It was taken once, and then it was taken. It's quite strangely short since it was. Increasing traffic calls for more maintenance. It's gonna cost everything. Meaning also comes, requiring additional meaning. I'd like to discuss it better in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u243	A respectable president. Admittedly, heavy tax transport costs more than the cost of heavy taxation and many other factors, but does it cost 10,00 times more than a car of people? No, that is not the case with charges. According to the analysis of the road to a particular heavy vehicle, the largest cars are responsible for approximately 10,000 times more stress than normal people's cars. You wonder, " Shouldn't they pay 10,000 times more? ' Or it might be possible, because there is a set of costs or pressures for weighting large cars, for driving on lighter cars, to be motivated by lighter trucks or lighter buses. Thus, twice could be saved with less pressure, which meant less maintenance. That would be, for example. can be suggested or something similar to that in smaller and lighter cars, especially around certain stress points such as spring breakers when roads are extremely sensitive. It takes more than two trips on two lighter cars, but the cost of maintenance may still be worth it. We have reached such high levels of maintenance. Instead of having 10 billion a year for maintenance expenses, we might have 5 billion a year. It is 5 billion to strengthen even some kind of project to reduce road stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u244	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting view the senator presents. Or you can look at the matter from a different perspective. What is suggested by such transfers to society? Take the fishing trucks with a load full of valuable goods, sheep transport cars, and those who carry the meat and everything else that we produce. This can be calculated from different sides, depending on our viewpoint. I don't have the knowledge or ability to tell you if you can have lighter cars or lighter products, but don't you think we need to look at any safety issues? Is there a lighter car that takes on more wind in a high - up idea? I don't know. That's what I was wondering. This can be checked from all sides. If we are talking about charges, it can even be controlled through them. I think there's a dot that can be considered well. I hope the senator agrees. But this is good. We'll get on with it. We'll get some more ideas and we'll be able to talk things out on a bigger basis. I used to demand increased services in the road system, but they are not only for the maintenance of the roads but also for the demand for additional meanings, additional guidance. One day I heard that one sandstorm in the South ruined road signs and signs and that the cost of keeping it all okay was considerable. It's changing fast. We are under rapid development, which is good and positive and we are going to continue, but we need courage and courage to meet it and find ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u245	Mr. President. I've only been wondering about tonight's answers to certain changes in both the left and the left green. I have made it clear myself that I personally do not object to charges, but it is very important that they are carefully considered and where they are appropriate. Most of us will likely agree that the Halfland tunnel is an example of a successful private effort that was financed by roads. This is where we're talking about the ideas of financing government projects by subsidies on existing institutions to and from the capital area, and I think we need to take a careful look at the effects of it. Last year I'd like to ask myself, " What are you doing here? ' The senator was very opposed to the ideas of the rise in carbon pay set out on the part of the former government. It was then spoken of as a national tax. Of course, the amount of people driving is very variable, but on average, there is no apparent difference between total land management and the capital area. It would be quite a day's drive here, while there would certainly be more distances in the country, which are shorter in daily driving to and from work. However, since it seems inevitable in this context, particular attention is being given to the group of people who come here to work from neighboring settlements about the same fundamentals to the capital area. There's a group that drives very much. We can only see this among members of Congress, this may be the number of members of Congress who drive the most over the year, a high frequency. I wondered, " Why do the candidates think better?'which seems to be a significant weight on a much narrower group, but the rise in carbon pay as discussed at the outset. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u246	Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is answerless. As I came in earlier, times have changed, and we have to meet our changed challenges. Everything's flying right next to us. What I think we need to be really open to is how we can finance this system of ours. We're just confronted with that. We need to find ways to finance the future, but we need to be equal in paying our fees. The objective must be that, as most people share and charge, we share as well as most people. We are also talking about paying off the tourists. They're adding weight to our road system. I trust we will find a righteous way. This will not cause us to suffer injustice. Granted, it is a challenge for us to face, but there is nothing more to do than face and resolve it. The aim of this step is also to increase traffic safety and efficiency and to reduce the number of accidents. It is the greatest benefit of all of this, the number of accidents and costs, both in human damage, in life, and in the cost of human beings and society. We're just open to examine it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u247	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's very important, and I agree with it. Senator. I'm celebrating this discussion. I think it's very important that we take care of these changes in payment. I think we should be honest and talk about it the way it is. Of course, this is an increase in income on the road, a tax increase, no matter what name we choose to name it. We're supposed to compare it with other possible currency and current deposit of traffic, like fuel costs and carbon costs. In many ways, they are a falling currency along with our energy exchange focus, but much less has been the result of reducing automobile emissions, which have become more taxing. At the same time, it can be reasoned that as automobile destruction decreases, the naval average waste decreases, reducing this amount of fuel costs and carbon costs, causing people to switch to totally fossil fuel - free transport, such as electric cars or hydrogen, if that happens later. Who knows? That is correct, and we all agree that these projects will not be financed without any action. There is a need for action on the construction of roads. At the same time that we take time to examine the future financing systems and to avoid stumbling into any conclusions there, it would not be wise, and it would face some opposition, e.g. on the part of the candidates taking advantage of government funds, e.g. to sell some of the banks, to finance the 50, 60 billion here on special missions in the coming years?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-05-62.u248	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for that answer. We agree that we face great challenges. There are changes. The income stocks we now have are contracting. We also have plans for changing other aspects of energy change and changing emphasis on that subject, so it's just a common project for all of us now. I believe it is important that we continue to look at these avenues, that we find a righteous way that most of us can share in financing. Of course, those who drive most, they pay most. That's the way it is today. It'll always be that way. All talk of paying just around Reykjavík; this is the way we all have to go sometime. All who live in the country need to come to Reykjavík for a service, and these too must be done. I trust and want to believe that we'll figure out something we can do. This must always be on the move, but what is positive now is that this transport program that we are considering now and that is being financed by the council. It's a place that's so good to be. We haven't been there before. All talk of less than in any other transport program - let's keep in mind that there were plans that were never realized. Now we have a realistic document we can follow, and we'll go on it. Let's do it, get out of here, and get on with it. Meanwhile, we find other ways, discuss some of them, and build proper transportation for the good of all of us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
