ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u1	At a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee earlier today, Jón Gunnarsson was elected president of the Committee, Sævarsdóttir Trausti Guðmundsson 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u2	To answer, Minister of Education and Culture, travel, industrial and innovation, marine and agricultural ministers, and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u3	Mr. President. I want to talk to the highest. Secretary of education on a bill that's for the treatment of the joint. The General and Education Committee I'm sitting in, there's a bill for a communication counselling on sports and youth service. First, I'd like to commend the highest. A minister of education for performing this bill and as quick as we respond to what became due to the #methoo movement in the sports movement, and taking a clean job by making sure that we can all prepare both our children and ourselves who choose to participate in the sports activities of a safe environment for every kind of harassment, harassment, and violence. I think it's a very important step towards this direction, and I'd like to keep it in place here at the beginning. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Minister. The first one turns to something else that I find very progressive in this bill. It is now a requirement for those who are involved in sports activities to have failed at XXIII. the section of the general penal law, i.e. The sexual abuse of the law of the law of the law, as well as the treatment of addictive and drug abuse. In this regard, there has been a great deal of debate about the availability of criminal records and how it should be used best to ensure that all those working in this field did not commit crimes that include law. To protect children. As for the section, I put my eyes into one thing that I thought would be natural that it would also be there; the criteria that the person should not have sinned in the physical injury section of the general penal law, i.e. grave physical injury, even murder. I wonder when we consider how to check the record; if you're supposed to send in proof of good conduct, and then you're going to have to have a red and green light back, if you don't also have to set up laws on these serious offenses against privacy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking about a communication counselor for sports and youth. It is a joy to report that both the sports and the youth movement responded very quickly and safely, and in a relatively short time, we covered the situation and saw the problem. It is a good call for them, and especially for neutral persons, who may be able to communicate. Regarding laws that apply to our communication counselor, we also take the example from sports laws and go as far as we can about it. A respectable president. I think the comment is made in the language of the day. A senator's concern about physical injury and something else we should consider on the committee. We've got some very positive reviews and quite good comments to the bill, so I think we could take a closer look. A respectable president. What's most important and very pleasant is that when a movement like # I like it in Iceland, the grass roots react rapidly and definitely. There I believe that her interaction with the government and the legislature are about to succeed. I've done a great job, and I'd like to commend the athletes who have shaped solidarity and the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u5	Mr. President. I want to say every word. Minister of education, it's great to see these positive comments that have just been coming in. I have personally seen this in the case of the committee and agree that, of course, this is something we should consider in the case of the committee, and it can also be extended to other areas. But I thought about one comment that has been made in the reviews and if we were at the highest point. A minister of education would not agree that this matter needs to be reformed. It is a matter of consultation with the representative of young people, meeting with the representatives of the children in the preparation of legislation as this. Of course, this is not the only case where it applies, e.g. is now an anti-violence strategy. A General and Education Committee, and there is also a lack of consultation with children, consultation with young people whose legislation applies. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister of education has some ideas about how such discussions can be better handled in the future. Children's manager has noted that there has been a lack of contact with a child's spokesman in the bill, and we plan to improve it within the committee, but I ask if she has any thoughts about how we are better at this in the future and hear the child's viewpoint when we make laws about them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u6	A respectable president. I think it's a very helpful point to show up in the legal process when it comes to children and young people, how we add and improve our consultation. I would have thought that the committee we ordered would have been in touch with the Children's Children's Agent and Education Committee, and I'm glad that the General and Education Committee is going to get his statement on the bill because that's what matters. Regarding how we can work on this and improve this arrangement, it is simply that when we are preparing for bills, it is more often used to include children's agent. I don't think it's supposed to be hard to deal with and that's good. These laws naturally reach them. A lot of work was done on the Sports and Youth Services team, and the youth - oriented movement is very closely connected with young people and children. But I'm glad the committee's taking it to heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u7	Mr. President. I would like to start by taking advantage of this opportunity to bring back to the attention of the United States Congress how big the trade industry in Iceland has become. She's been our biggest export a long time ago. Similarly, tourism has created a large number of jobs, but according to Economics figures, some 24,200 people were active in tourism and related articles in 2017. Today, however, some external circumstances have made tourism more difficult for international and international businesses. This has led to serious problems but also to other factors, such as an increase in construction index, high pay costs, and higher financial costs. This situation has adversely affected Iceland's competitiveness. The situation of both international and international airlines has become more uncertain. I wonder, " What will the government do to help Iceland become a long - term competitive country? ' Unchanged is the expected reduction in the number of tourists in 2019. A shrink may not tell us everything, but we have also not reached whole - year service throughout the country, and residence time has been shrinking, meaning that tourists go to the southwest corner less. On top of this, the small increase expected during the summertime when the country's most widespread tourist attractions are already under protection. Tells you the highest. Ministers need to handle this in some way, e.g. with measures to support national travel services and access more airports? Tells you the highest. For example, a minister does not have reason to place extra energy in foreign markets to make it more important to apply to interesting market areas where we have been losing a share. In Germany? The fact is, at the same time that the government has made quite a small contribution to marketing, companies are reducing their donations due to a predictable recession, which may result in a very small marketing contribution for this year's marketing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. Of course, the candidate of the inquiry and would like to agree with her that this sector has become the largest, extensive fermentation and environment, whether within the environment or otherwise, and all of us need to be on the toes rather rapidly. I will look for ways to bring more cases into this council, whether there are reports or anything else we're working on, in order to get more discussions in the council on these matters. It's true that we're onto some contractions. In February, March, and April, Istavia had predicted a dramatic decrease, but not January. Then it turned out that there was a significant decrease in January. I think so, even. Show that we simply need better, more detailed information on these matters. We'd have to be able to say after some time that this industry is living under the circumstances of being able to draw more advanced and reliable data in an effort to see into the future what is going to happen. We've done a lot of things with the travel board and other things, but we haven't done what needs to be done yet. As for competitiveness and how I feel we need to be careful of it, I would say the password is good. Everything we do has to be to increase the quality and quality of Icelandic tourism. Whether it is our efforts to support the job or what we do to build wood in place or otherwise, the password needs to be quality. Of course, we have aerospace fund, and we see it works. People from the north say it's because of him that managed to fly there. It's getting kind of stable. Of course, we would like to see more of that. There are areas around here that benefit from this. The protocol then consists of another key element, which we have put into it a substantial amount of money, and it also requires that all areas, rural areas, markets, and other activities participate in it. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll come in later on to the launch and priority of funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, while there is a flash of light, it is far from the fact that there is blackness in the tourism industry and that while uncertainty is present, there is no indication that there is anything other than the bright future of Icelandic tourism. But in order for that vision to continue and become reality, it is important that we respond in a rapid and effective way to research, the building of infrastructure, products development, and innovation, the quality of our ministry as best we can. Minister came in, and last but not least of the market. We have a wide range of research around the seabed, which has provided us with stable and professional resources, although we certainly have problems there too. It is based on numbers and knowledge of the environment, which, unfortunately, lacks tangible support for tourism. Also seems to be a lack of the perspective and benefits of tourism, including the Federal Bank of Iceland. Very much. A minister puts forth the effort to improve this project during the year by direct action?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u10	Mr. President. To finish what I started earlier on my destination plans, I just want to tell you that this is the largest individual government action in the form of funds to support the development of areas throughout the country, i.e. that the exact location or destination of each country is not set on Skula Street 4 but rather that they decide for themselves. It needs to be done with local, local, local, rural, rural, etc. When it comes to priorities, because this is a question of marketing and other projects, I will apply myself to the development of additional funds for research because it prepares better decision making. This will help us to gain this perspective, tell us where we are, and where we need to improve. The stress assessment is a key element in this. Now we're in Phase Two in it, i.e. We're validating the indicators that have been found. This tells us exactly where the necks of the bottle are, where we are in a good place, and where to add. We will also be able to make informed decisions about the cost of fixing the needed things. Are we ready to get into it, or are we going to say: No, that's enough now, and we need more control, and we want to direct people elsewhere? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u11	Mr. President. Recently, the highest was used. A minister of education and culture sees to it that students to teachers' rights get what they call a paid job. It's natural that you're good at it, but I assume you're the best. A minister of education realized that the procedure would open a window for more subjects or courses. I've heard of even... Nurses have attended the same thing, and they would like to get in line, to go to school. But this brings my mind to something else. We have a persistent shortage of traders. It is this way that while they are studying, they are the ones who are most likely to need a salary. There have been some difficulties, I know, in several industrys, to get what is called a contract. The question is, what's the highest? Minister intends to do something in the affairs of industrial students. It can be done in a number of ways, including by building bigger companies into the role of champions when studying to do business. It can also be done by supporting smaller companies and dictators who have naturally paid for the failure of the government to cut down insurance. It is also possible to support an enterprise in the areas where competition is high and business difficulties. This applies, e.g. We'll do the restaurant business where there's study for both production and cooking. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers whether they intend to promote the use of trade students, or more, than teachers, to gain access to paid training.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and to bring up the importance of education in the country. With regard to the teaching program, it is quite clear that we are now about to take on very extensive measures in order to increase attendance and increase the importance of education in the country. We'll probably introduce an action plan in March, and we've been in great cooperation with teachers of the teachers, academic fields, and the University of Akureyri. It's not only Iceland that has to deal with this challenge, there are also other countries. I was meeting with Norway's minister of education yesterday and we've been comparing our books on the fact that teaching is the most important part of our community. We are indeed, this government, taking to heart the issue, and we have great ambition to fulfill what is in the government covenant. Hv. A senator asks about trade students and whether they can expect to be in paid professions. Like what? A senator likely knows a wide variety of ways in which he or she works. One of the challenges we face, and we are in a great deal of cooperation with the industry and other parties in this respect, is that these circumstances are very different. They need to be synchronized, and they need to be made more confidence. We've been putting this matter first, and we've been setting priorities for money, for example, by canceling our expenses. What a joy it is that we are seeing significant increases in the process of induction in a industry that has not been for quite a while! There are positive signs in the air, and I especially think it's positive. A senator is so interested in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. In fact, this did not show whether she intends to do something to ease her working life. Since this has been the case, teachers, finemen, have access to paid training, they think of an equal rule of government law. When one student group is taken out, as it seems, they must ask themselves, " Is it not possible for other students, such as trade students, to assume comparablely or to rely on a short period of time to do so? ' I park, for example. special emphasis on the iron industry, in which we are desperately lacking people. I don't think there was a graduate album in Iceland for 30 years. We need to import people to do this work for us, plumbers, etc. I reiterate my question to the minister if she intends to use it to make the pacefalls so that industrial students can assume a paid course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u14	A respectable president. I can convince you why. A candidate for major operations related to increasing the way of work, industry and employment in Iceland. Let me give you one example. Now there is a significant high level of technical presentation, the Iceland Championship is ahead, and now it's time to introduce students in 9th and 10th grades all the studies that are available. It was estimated that a consistent test of academic study would be at the same time, but we actually brought the consistent tests so that students could attend this presentation. You've been doing this for the first time, that I think. We then have these clear messages to set priorities and say that Icelandic students should have the same access to this important study where there is a shortage. This is a symbolic procedure, but very important. Hv. A senator asks if the Minister is going to do something about this. Yes, he certainly is, and he has been doing it, as it were. A senator may have noticed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u15	President. Last night, a prices survey was made by the Federal Republic of America to work on comparing the prices of consumer food between the Northern countries. The results may not be surprising. The results showed that there was a 67% difference between the food basket in Iceland, where it was the highest, and in Helsinki, where it was the lowest. Compared to the most expensive Northlands, Norway, there was still a 40% higher eater here. For interested persons, the country's diet was about 60% higher than the average in the three states of the north, which are involved in the European Union, regardless of what one would like to read. Bronus's manager complained immediately that there was too much agricultural product in this basket, so the comparison would not be fair, since as if all knew, would be the most expensive agricultural products in the world. This is not surprising, because as we examine a comparison between the OECD countries, no agriculture is ever protected more than that Icelandic one. This results in a huge cost for Icelandic families. It is estimated that on average, a four - man family will pay about 60,000,700,000 dollars. more than a month before the basket of food, but a similar family in other parts of the North. That's why I'm asking, is it the highest? Ministers happy with the cost of the agricultural system to consumers? And because the government seems to be looking for something to play in a dresser interview, I ask, "Have the highest. " A minister thought about taking on high food prices in this country, because of the government's policies on agriculture, and changing them as mere debates?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, I now heard most of it and I'd like it. There was not much surprise. I'm not gonna answer specifically for ASI prices survey. I'm just gonna remind you, because. In Icelandic agricultural products, a senator mentioned a high price that is more food than fat meat, as is sometimes said on solemn occasions. Iceland's import of food and customs is simply much lower than any EU, just to mention, because more than 80% of the exported food to Iceland are without customs. Under it, there are plenty of factors. I believe, in that light, there is a good level of Icelandic agriculture. It makes good products. The price to buy basics can be debated at all times. It is true that in this survey, as it is presented to us, the food scaffolding is compared considerably higher here. But I'm sure it's inexplicable to look at the difference, and I expect the Icelandic producers of the food in that basket will produce differences in people's wages and other elements playing into the prices of market products. It is normal to be made in comparison with both the products that we make ourselves and the products we import into the country when an effort is made to assess the value of production, that more factors are taken in but only direct sales items from the store. Just so you know, I'm not gonna answer for the words of the manager of the individual stores or anything else. They just have to speak for themselves. [[The president calls.]] It may be that these are points that came up in connection with government decision - making talks. A senator mentioned earlier. I don't know that these things have come into that table yet, so that they can be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u17	Mr. President. Even though it's the highest. One minister did not answer directly, but I heard that he was quite satisfied with the price paid by the Icelandic consumers for the government's protection policies on that subject. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Ministers need to look at factors such as purchase costs, but it can be noted that Norway is a high-paying state, such as Iceland, and in fact, the whole North countries are quite successful in comparing internationally, but we still see an enormous difference. We do not compare ourselves with prices in southern Europe or countries with a considerably lower price. Once again, the obvious fact that in all prices is repeated is that the price difference is not as striking as the products introduced here in free competition as the highest rate. A minister pointed out that we have a low toll in general except when it comes to agricultural products, so the cost of family life lies in the agricultural industry. There is the food basket's expense increase. I believe that the government has something to offer in the coming dress interview when ASI presents that important fact. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u18	A respectable president. I felt no satisfaction in making a proclamation, nor was I mourning over the price given by the Icelandic producers for their product. I'm only happy if people in every business can enjoy what they're doing at a time. But I must mention to the discussion that there are more factors in this than just one price check. I don't yet have information about the quantity or type of products exactly, but when we compare Icelandic producers on markets with other sources, I can only draw attention to the fact that there are little toll barriers on the imported agricultural product. [[Up front.]] It is part of it and must be a subject of consideration in the way that degradation results in consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u19	Mr. President. Travel has become a burden in Icelandic employment, making a lot of money and currency. It was a pleasure to hear of a minister earlier this morning about the importance she places on the construction of this service. Thus, tourism is based on a measure of solid foundation, but in other respects it is still breaking apart as a business sector of the size it has grown up to. Among those who have great significance for the quality of tourism are guides. A study in guide studies is available at the University of Reeds in Iceland, at the High School of Education in Kópavogi, and at the Iceland Travel School. I want direct, in this traffic, two questions to the top. Minister: Does a minister have a law degree on the job names of guide? And on the other hand, does a minister have a plan to shape minimum standards for study in this study, which would be the basis of such law protection? I'd like to state that this case has been moved here more often, much more often in the Council. When preparing this inquiry, I came across the bill of this subject as a possibility. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson moved repeatedly about the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. That's right, like what's wrong. A senator says that this has been before reached the council, and I've been given some inquiries, a case submitted, etc. This too comes up regularly during the discussion. What matters most to me is that we ask ourselves about our objective, i.e. how we achieve our goals in the best possible way. It combines views on the importance of law values and, more importantly, my vision in it, i.e. I have previously answered that I am not prepared to agree that the only way to achieve the objective of the security of tourists, to increase the quality of Icelandic tourism, and to ensure knowledge of local and weather practices and other laws. We've set up a qualified facility, including one. and mainly to increase quality and knowledge, which is based on Vega. We took a field trip to New Zealand last year and there's the center of adventure. Not even there is a requirement for a particular education of guide guides, as we were told on the journey. The budget is primarily on the companies, i.e. that they will be enrolled in their form of adventure, have security plans, and follow up on them. It's under close supervision. We set up the legislation that the Senate gave for travel agencies that companies should set up security plans. This would require a distinction between general guidance, i.e. general guides, hikers, and mountain guides Then there are likely very different requirements for them. As I say, the requirement in New Zealand is set up on the companies, that they must fit their quality requirements and have security plans. Of course, it takes far more caution and general knowledge of local, weather, and so forth than general guidance. [[The president calls.]] I'd say that there's something we should especially look at, and I'm very much ahead of it, both in order to improve safety and quality, that we have special rules about it. But the law is against me not necessarily the only answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It may not be a matter of terms being the only option, and there are other factors to celebrate. I think it would be very useful if a minister would give more attention to the points mentioned in her fine speech. This link, talking about quality and security, raises the question that there will be an increased demand for Icelandic guides on trips, more specific trips. In fact, a minister dissuaded a few aspects of that relationship. Especially do I have in mind trips that test knowledge of Icelandic situations, difficult paths, weather conditions, and natural knowledge of Icelandic culture, history, and nature, all in the vast sense. It's not enough for some tourist group to come here, and one of those foreigners is picked up and dipped up as a guide. [[The president calls.]] The question is that the guide is Icelandic with quality and security in view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u22	Mr. President. Sounds like something to me. A senator may agree in many respects, but perhaps not entirely. I agree with the fact that a large - quality transport service is a relatively easy approach to Icelandic guides and that a business offers such a service. We are then part of the EEA community, so it would be impossible for us to simply forbid guides, whether educated or not, to come to this country and direct foreign tourists. We know that a lot of Icelanders who go abroad would like to have an Icelandic tour guide walk with them in the middle of the city and tell about it. They want him to be Icelandic. This is something that we may not necessarily have to ban, and beyond that, we could not. But then there are also, just to substantiate the matter of legalization, sometimes of such persons, who may have the best standards, know the story, even though many generations were in that country and know things well. It is a real experience for foreign tourists to follow them. They may not be skilled, but they are good, and they meet the requirements for an enterprise in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u23	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss the value of innovation for an Icelandic community, and thank you very much. Minister for being here to answer. As a matter of fact, I also hope that this discussion with us today will bring in a further discussion of the importance of innovation, which I think we can all agree on. I asked a minister in connection with this discussion: What is the position of innovation in Iceland in an international comparison? What actions do Ministers think it is necessary to attack to improve the emerging environment in Iceland? Then I asked about the fact that we have long known about, that the number of Icelandic patents has been small in comparison with other countries. It has been a great privilege to subtract ourselves into international comparison when discussing the New World of Iceland. I wondered if the government has any intention of responding in some way and then how. New creation is one of the basic components of the Treaty, which occurs at least 18 times and in the general chapter of the Constitution. New births are also important everywhere, both in the public and in the commercial sector, whether in the businesses or in the larger companies. I think we all agree on the value of innovation, but I think we should talk about necessity. New creation is also a very beautiful word, I think we can all agree on that, but I hope we'll get something out of what modern innovation we want to be, how we want to build in Iceland. At the highest. Minister's taken a new creation policy. Therefore, I also feel that it is important to take the discussion at this point and expect that what is presented here can become some food for that course. Even though we in Iceland have a strong job life, it's too simple. That's what needs to be changed. We need more variety of employment and more solid support. Of course, our economic situation must never be built primarily in one industry, since we are not going to fall because of the fall of one industry. I think it's important that we take care of this matter and the importance of being developed here a innovation policy based on Iceland's speciality. I think Iceland's innovation policy can never be like South Korea, Sweden or Singapore - now I name the countries that are in front of innovation - and have never been the same, because we're supposed to build on a special situation. Of course, we should look to what has turned out well for us, both here and abroad. I also want to use this opportunity to celebrate the efforts of the Industrial Association and Business Council, for it is of course essential that our professional life come with us to this work. I'd like to mention here as an example of things that have worked well for us. We in the Western Council visited the other day, an amazing innovation firm that sells incredibly much Icelandic cosmetics. It's a genetics company. It sells the airlines of Icelandic beauty products. In fact, the company has sold so much that British markets have never before sold more of their products than do alcohol and tobacco on board British planes. This small company began out as a small wand at the pioneers' home. A number of companies have been created in Iceland's pioneers. I received statistics that the 30 largest pioneers at the pioneers'headquarters had a range of less than 8 billion in 2016. They have 390 employees whose sex ratio is very equal. Since the institution they have been given a scholarship of 1.8 billion, but at the same time, some 7 billion have come from private investors. That's what I think should be our new big-time policy. Classes have also proved their worth, and I expect us to discuss the importance of malls and clusters here today. Then I'd like to stress that although Iceland is an island, we are not an island in this discussion. Of course, being part of the EEA, being part of the EEA Convention and being part of that large market area is of great importance when it comes to these issues, both in terms of market access, access to funding, and in particular cooperation on research and development at the European Union scene. As a matter of fact, I think we should look beyond the European Union, vacation contracts, and our cooperation with other countries are important when we are going to build a powerful business life here. The marine road has been very successful, and I think we in Iceland can boast that we have the best companies in the world, so we have the opportunity to be some sort of the Shilikon Valley of the Seaway. I think it's necessary for us to realize that our professional policy in Iceland has to be increasingly concerned with not using natural resources. [[The president calls.]] We need to look to the inexhaustible force found in us, the people who are building this country. That can be all kinds of things. A respectable president. I wanted to come to lots of points, which I must arrive at the next talk. But let's see that our fourth industrial revolution is on its way, and we Icelanders have, and we are going to be part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir My daughter Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for bringing up this important issue. New creation is simply one of the greatest interests in the future. Thus, communities who want to be competitive to the world's best realm must not view innovation as something nice to have but something that is necessary. Sometimes it comes as a discussion of innovation that it is something that is rather pleasant and enjoyable to have aside, not something that is vital to us. In other words, innovation is not to be considered a side project but a task to be put first. That's what we're trying to do. New creation is one of the main reasons for the nation's increased valuables and commercial innovations can play a key role in solving the social challenges we face in the coming years, so that innovation contributes to our finding solutions to social challenges, but it also helps us to meet the social challenges ahead. In various ways, governments have used themselves to increase the way of innovation in the country, including the United States. with increased donations for Technical Development Funds and increased tax returns to enterprises due to research and development projects. But we also realize that more can be done if we are going to find a place among the foremost nations in this regard. To this end, there is now a development policy for Iceland by the Ministry through a transnational consultation group. When looking at the global comparison, we first have a good relationship with both countries on both sides of the Atlantic for research and development. We have done well in our pursuit of strength in a foreign competitive fund. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator of professional interest, initiative, ideas and activities is of utmost importance and is of utmost importance. I'm glad to hear it. I had my last meeting with business council this morning, just about the suggestions it offered. In the statistics of innovation, it can be seen that in 2017, 2.13% of GDP was spent in research and development here on land, with only over the average of the European Union. However, at the scene of the Scientific and Technical Council, it has been set aside as an ambitious goal for expenses for research and development to achieve 3% of GDP. Another measure of our innovation is the Global Innovation Index, published annually and measures the synthesisal function of 126 countries. Last year Iceland was 23rd on that list. We are in company with Estonia in 24th and New Zealand, 22th. However, the top seats on the list would include countries that we would like to compare with and would like to do in this context, such as Switzerland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Britain, the United States, Finland, Denmark, and Ireland. However, talk that is based on a foreign analysis can be taken with some notice, especially in small economys such as ours, since some adjustments can have a powerful effect. It is sobering, though, that in the Global Innovation Index, we have fallen ten places between 2017 and 2018, i.e. From 13th to 23. When we look at the figures behind them, we can see that we are doing well in various areas and can be happy that we are greatly limited in terms of general infrastructure and political setting. However, it is also stated that what may be called the efficiency of innovation here on earth is further reduced from year to year. This suggests that the work and the funding we have for innovation simply do not achieve enough success in growing companies and not well enough for exporting products based on intelligence and innovation. We're even. not to score enough in international comparison when registration of private secrets. And that's something. A senator has already arranged a program at the council and is a subject that I think we should try to improve. I'm thinking of working to work on some kind of stronger frame of mind about the next semester's regulations. In many respects, it is also about our attitude and knowledge of these matters here on earth. Similar results have been made in further analyses, such as a recent Norsen research on the supporting systems of innovation, and in Mckinseyr's 2012 report. These analyses are in my opinion that we need to be careful about spending money on innovation here because, in support of the government in innovation, there are extraordinary sums of money. I've always said that we need to get a better perspective on what this money goes on to. Are they all in the right place? Are they doing what we want them to do? It's one of the major factors in this innovation policy, that's exactly where it's being examined. As a result, we will likely make some adjustments in this environment to reach a better conclusion. We want to nurture the fertile environment found among the pioneers and among those who are involved in research, evolution, and creative articles, and we need to apply ourselves to the growth of such a rod on international markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u25	Mr. President. By permission: ▪ It may be the main thing among peers, a country in which intelligent - powered innovations can not only develop but also grow into carriers in the economy. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir In a recent article, Jóhanna Guðmundsdóttir makes a very good impression. Indeed, Iceland and I have an example of this, for example, to form in fishing, how well we have been able to make good use of knowledge that has been collected through the ages to find new and better ways to do things. However, we need to look to the future and see that we need to spit in our hands and look beyond the platform, especially to the young generation. And that's where we need to look to the education system. We're supposed to be teaching basic thinking all the time into nursery school, and we're definitely supposed to be teaching programming a long time ago as one of the basic languages. Different things, we don't change the future. More than anything else, it is important to increase the road and skill of industry and education. Thus, experience here and abroad shows that it is important to have access to patient capitals, strengthens, and, of course, counselors, and can be done better there. Of course, much good has been done, many assignments that have been done. These include the second born, the Neon Grand Prix, the Factory, the Fab Lab Lab Lab Center business in the after-school schools, and a lot of innovations and pioneers at the basic schools. This, however, must become part of the foundation, part of what we learn. There we need to do much better if we are going to be competitive in innovation, in business, but also in order for Iceland to be competitive in a future international commercial market. We must want Icelanders to take advantage of the technology to create instead of being passable consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u26	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion and for the Minister's participation. For the past 20 years, we have seen very many examples of what new creations can bring upon us. We've seen companies like Marel, Saleska, Skaggan, 3X and Kerisi grow up. They have one thing in common, all of these companies, they've come up from the knowledge of Icelanders on fishing roads. I think I've heard last head thoughts that the trade that comes up from a fishing road will soon create more currency money money money money than the ocean route itself. It is in itself that two things must come in order for innovation to flourish and become the bed - bearing river, and then the scepter that we want, i.e. that the state embraces industrial and technical education. As noted in the answers to the Education Minister earlier, it is not quite clear, e.g. In the field of students, whether to provide them through school by paying for their schooling, one of the necessary things. Another is that of perhaps 100 wands founded on ten people, and we have one Marel. It's just the 100. What Is Needed? Business support is required, e.g. by reducing insurance fees, as you and I have suggested, but the government has not listened. There are various conditions that the state can create to help with these developments because, of course, it is our guide to the future and guarantee that there will be a more varied and more prosperous business life here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u27	A respectable president. I thank the advisor for this discussion and welcome the emphasis of a minister who reminded us that a innovational policy in the Council, which is long time and hopefully we will be able to carry it out as soon as possible. When she looks at the light of day, I hope we take special care of the fund system. For example, I would like to mention two of them. A research fund was now distributed in January 61 with a 17% share of applications. The student's innovation fund is 80 million each year to strengthen students who do basic research in summer work. By gratifying these two funds alone, we would be able to produce very productive soil for young scientists to develop, develop, and create. I'd like to take part in the role of the government in bringing up basic research that may even be possible. would not enjoy progress in the hands of a private member. You can see that the practical wisdom sometimes stands in the way of research that is very important in the future. The phones we have in our pockets would not exist without a study of public university in the United States. The Valley of Shilikon would be half empty without any government money. One brief thing about how the government can with its innovation add weight to the scales: My words here follow the fact that I am doing my case in the progress of the General Computer computer through an article. It's an amazingly exciting development in which this worthless resource that we may seem to be passing through fencing and must be the soil for innovation in grammatical technology, which is one of the areas in which Iceland needs a great deal of emphasis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u28	Mr. President. It's a good discussion. It's good that we take it as often as possible. I appreciate it. It's always a pleasure to talk about innovation, but it would be more satisfying if there was more visible success in that class, we all want to improve it, but all these good ideas have to be developed. When we think of comparison with other countries, we do not come out as well as we would wish. It is mainly in the export, education and development of the economy, where we limit the Global Innovation Index, i.e. It's the new-born scale. Therefore, and I do, that fortune-Takafinit began to operate recently in order to contribute to the increased technical translocation of the university community. It is a big step that helps to differ between all these weaknesses. But there are many things that have to be done to promote innovation in Iceland and to nurture our economy in order for more powerful companies to make valuable goods for exporting. We have some of those companies, but I think there's a few more that we can get. Adding the fourth support to the national industry must be based on our developing innovation policies, which are now working well, but also on a general industrial policy on how it is seen that the commercial roads in Iceland should be built up for the future. Such policies may, e.g. emphasise increasing innovation in the energy sector so that Iceland can be the world's main target in the spread of renewable energy in connection with climate change. As a country, we should make it our goal to export climate solutions to other countries because we are far better than most countries. Since we do not have endless resources to work with on job development and innovation, we need to be very diligent in choosing what to live and what to live, and to give us the results we want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Haraldsdóttir This important discussion of innovation and the highest. Minister I thank for her input, and at the same time I'm going to commend the highest. Minister for taking the initiative with the policy process in her department. If we find ourselves in the budget of the past few years, we have been putting more money into research and development, both through funds and by intentional measures, and I feel that understanding the importance of innovation for valuable creations and just as much as the increase in government access is becoming. V.E.G. A minister entered two criteria, a clue about where we are in front of other nations, the national product range where we are just above the average of Europe, but still have some land to reach 3% of the target of the Scientific and Technical Council. On the other hand, the world list of innovations, Global Innovation Index, president, is where we are least superior. We are in our 23rd place and far behind the nations whom we would like to join. What Is the Cause? Lack of financial contributions? Lack of intentional action? Lack of knowledge? The scale of the economy, the efficiency of the budget and the follow-up of projects, the weakness of infrastructure, or the lack of policy is that we are not closer to such nations as Sweden, Norway, and Denmark? I think part of it's explaining, public policy is missing. The work of a minister is therefore a cause for rejoicing and the highest. The minister discussed the support and better use of the budget and the cooperation of the public sector, including the rural and private sectors, jobs, institutions and schools. I agree with the highest. Minister, but to do that, we need policy and methodology, such as public cluster policy, which may include... The nations I listed have used very effectively. I'm asking the highest. Minister if it's part of the current policy process, and at the same time encourage the highest level. Minister to consider official cluster policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u30	Mr. President. This is an urgent and urgent discussion and should be thanked for the adverb. paritaprevir That's true of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. There are many viewpoints and good indications here, and I think that there is no doubt that innovation is necessary. Our community's future depends on our success in building new employment projects based on innovation, intelligentness, and profitableness, creating valuable jobs. Of course, it is good to have a strong fishing route and intensive tourism and heavy industry, but we need a much more variety of employment. There's a lot to do. It's enough to mention the famous company that we're all proud of, CCP, which was sold during the days to South Korea for $46 billion. It gives us a clue as to what we're trying to do in the innovation. What I think is in my opinion our biggest subject right now is to make sure that the innovation companies that exist and achieve certain results can grow and stay as long as they always are in Iceland. The main reason is that there is a general requirement for the management of such enterprises is that it is possible to be here. It is obvious that companies of that kind need first stability and access to markets. [[The president calls.]] While we are with the blessed crown and yurt as they are, it will always be very difficult for the many small companies to become big and proud.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. The adverb, Brondi Haraldsdóttir, for an important discussion, and thank you very much. Minister for her participation. I'm gonna go back to one or two. A saying has made the subject both in history and in a fine article in the morning newspaper, part of the educational system. We can visualize some sort of chain. The chain is like this: It is knowledge that results in innovation, innovation, and increased productions lead to increased economic growth. We know what that means: Improving standard of living and improving well - being. We are in the inner core of affairs. Mr. President. In a sense, a university can be viewed as a manufacturing company that produces knowledge. Methodology in each article is the basis for that level of knowledge. Colleges need to practice critical thinking, to question their previous conclusions, and to ask questions. They are not protected by a work environment where people can be safe from views or opinions that they do not fall mentally and struggling sciences of what kind is not going to go into the walls of college. Knowledge fund, based on established methods, free and critical thinking, is the hallmark of each university, and thus they play the most important function. It is important to enhance the quality monitoring of university studies and to nurture research, academic as well as professional ones, by all means. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u32	Mr. President. I would like to start my second speech by saying thank you for your discussion and why. paritaprevir Buttti-Haraldsdóttir for taking the initiative on her. Although countries that are not rich in resources, such as Of course, Denmark and Singapore, have a greater need to be more active in innovation, we find this more emphasis on innovation and support for pioneers. Iceland is so lucky to be in the power of resources, but there is a power and opportunity to build on our knowledge of our resources, both technological solutions, but more about products development and development of services with new technologies or solutions. Not only are there opportunities for innovation in employment but we should also look to innovation in the administration, both state and rural. An exciting example of this is found in the Capitol Bank, where there has been integrated Kingdom, rural, and private services, as well as a space for innovation. This is what we need to look at, and this is exactly the opportunity for such a small country as Iceland to use the breaths. We should not be afraid to think large and look to the experiences of other countries in terms of even using the tax system to promote innovation. We need to create a innovational policy that contributes to the creation of healthy ecosystems of companies and communities. Mr. President. There are so many things in this discussion that it would be helpful to discuss in detail, but the basic message is that innovation is essential to every country, and we have an obligation to do better to strengthen it. In this context I must mention, as noted earlier, the work in Iceland's innovation policy, which is being developed, but it is very important that it reflects the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution and the UN's global goals, but it also makes very important that money be put into it to follow it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u33	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for the discussion. What I'd like to talk about is a novelty in the fishing road and agriculture. We know that the fishing road has driven much of Iceland's innovation through investment and technology needs. As a result, the motivation has been great there. The same has recently happened on agriculture. Icelandic Startips, in cooperation with the Icelandic marine mall, has set up a so-called trade speed to the sea and rural areas and is done with companies and institutions, i.e. in cooperation with IKEA, Italy's Matura, the HB Granda and the Marine Corps. This morning, for example. A press conference at these trades to sea and rural areas introduced two new companies that have emerged from the food sector, Codland and Lava Seas. This is the first commercial speed to focus on new solutions and sustainable valuables in agriculture and fishing. Business speeds are not unknown in Iceland, they have been available in the tourism industry and the energy sector, I understand, and there are hundreds of people every year who want to make good use of these speeds. I'd like to give you one good example of what innovation can do. It is the company's health protein, owned by the KS and the Lactate, which uses 50 million gallons [50 million L] of mysu to about 350 tons of protein and soon 1.5 million gallons [1.5 million L] of ethanol. It is using materials that would otherwise have gone into the sea, so there is also a much better solution to a certain environment than would have been. There are great opportunities for full - time work on all kinds of products for the sea and the land, including algae and other opportunities for food work, as I came in. [[The president calls.]] It will be fun to see how this trade speed to the sea and rural areas will grow in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u34	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, as others have done here and describe as a player that the situation of innovation is quite practical in this country. Of course, it can be examined in real life, but I think about it, and I build it to be somewhat familiar with it. There are a wide variety of projects in such small society that are facing and I would like to say that the role of Iceland's New Creation Centre, which has been clearly defined, has been very important. She's done a very good job. There are a lot of small companies in the country, maybe that's Iceland's special place. Then there is considerable strength from Iceland's clocks and Clustery, and now a cluster policy is being formed at the General Assembly, which is also important. These are thousands of jobs, and it's not just that it's important for jobs in the country, but it's a set out on creation that I really admire. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir Haralds says that we have to plan not to disseminate the demands too much, highlight specialization, size and circumstances because of this in Iceland. I also stress that there is a constant need to reconsider the environment and the goals of innovation. So I'm glad that there's a government policy involved in working on it. There is also a need to improve counselling, that is in the nature of the subject, to promote the environment and, above all, to provide better access to the initial amount of money after intensification. There's a lot of banks involved in the business, state and business, and we know the Startap system that's been here. Mr. President. There has been general appeal to the development of innovation, to the importance of traditional employment and new employment roads, and to see solidarity here. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see the future and the future council permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u35	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying the last words. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson of the Future Parliamentary Commission for the rest of his life. We have a future committee, which is with prime minister for now, and it works quite well, that I believe. I like to think that the swamp has been written off for the final part of the discussion. Congress that the role of the government in innovation is to keep the taxes low and then sit on the sideline. There are, of course, things that need to be done. We need primarily to stimulate an enterprise to extend the chain of production and export the full amount of goods. It's in long standing chains that are most useful to innovation. Also helpful is cutting down unnecessary expenses on the organisation and business, fixing the competitive funds, uniting some, promoting them all, allowing them to be transchangeable bonds, making venture capital investments more interesting. I also want to say that if it were the highest, it would be extremely useful. Tourism, industrial and innovation would take over the ball from the Secretary of State to secure Iceland's entrance to the European Space Agency, ESA. I say this because the Council has concluded that we should join that organization and organization, but the Secretary of State has, unfortunately, done nothing about it. Clearly, we would benefit if we were to participate in such cooperation. We have few simple and inexpensive syringes for innovation that are available to us. It would also be helpful to establish new development banks, such as those who have become acquainted with abroad and who are working toward economic goals, including those with an economic background. cheap loans to companies to build valuable export products, etc. [[The president calls.]] But perhaps the most important thing is that we stop believing that paying taxes is the only way to succeed. There is so much positive that you can do - do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, in which a lot of important things have been presented, including... that we have a great need for innovation in the community to increase production and diversity, thus building for continued well - being in the country. To do so, we need to make sure that innovation thrives and investment in innovation yields to society. So here is where patience is needed. Now we're working on a innovation policy for Iceland, and I'm so lucky to be able to participate in that work and we have high expectations for what's going on there. The encouraging environment for innovation is complex. The school system, from high school to college, plays a key role, as some of the local senators have been doing. There, basic education is all important, as well as opportunity to test a variety of subjects and the proximity to professional life. Those who are well educated in basic education can acquire knowledge of technology, knowledge of programming, biotechnology, and a host of other things, and link up articles. We must never forget that the foundation of programming is the language mathematics and knowledge of reason, not vice versa. New births can spring from all sectors of society, deep - seated workplaces, and the public sector. It is based on a new view of people with productive thinking and good education. One of the major challenges to shape innovation policy is to ensure the interaction of the whole country with innovation, people, employment life and natural resources. New creation is not an isolated phenomenon, innovation is carried out in cohesion, not a permanent store of employment and knowledge, local and international knowledge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u37	Mr. President. I think that in many ways, we are doing a great job of encouraging people to innovation and helping people to do so at first steps. As shown in the case of the highest. Minister: How can we increase the growth of these enterprises and make sure that what is installed in this system is successful? Of course, there are a lot of things to do there, but I would like to mention that strong and practical assistance is a good pay and urgent need, but then it has to be made up of the investments in growing companies that have the opportunity to do so. Happily, we have some funds that are involved but that need to be done better. It brings to mind that in the management of the state, the New Creation Fund is an investment in businesses and has done well, but I think it is time to reevaluate his role in the view that he will become more of a so - called fund, i.e. that he invests, invests, or invests in other funds that invest again. It reminds me that approximately a year I asked for the future of the New Creation Fund, and it was scheduled for a report in the weeks ahead. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the minister if this report is available or whether they're making decisions on the change in the status of the New World Fund of industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister and any trouble. Congress members who participated in this discussion, which I think was very helpful and objective. I'd also like to mention here that I think it's important that we look at the social responsibilities of corporations and how we can work with the UN's world aims and use them in our catalyses when it comes to the emerging environment. When we talked about the impulse, a minister came into it, and we know it here, that we were raising the refunds for research and development, and we further promoted investments in innovation companies. I think it's important. Still, we need to take note of what the next steps will be. Is it proper to complete the roof, or should we rather consider an increase in the proportion? In this regard, how are the funds best spent? Thank you. paritaprevir The Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ice Falls, who introduced the educational system that can never be taken out of the debate on innovation, must always be the basis for it as well as what was presented here on basic research. Although we are here primarily looking at practical values and innovations, basic research is always an important part of it, and our educational system and the university environment play a very big part. Remember, too, that today's largest business in the world had just been created 10 to 15 years ago so that we could be talking about the largest business in Iceland being doing something we don't even know today what is. There are many things that are well done, but there are better things to do. Then I think that we have to look first into investments and how we can contribute to and rather build up investments. I reiterate what I said earlier and put it to good use. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson of the expertise and speciality of Iceland. Let's look beyond that. The seaside road has done amazing things, and we should build on it. I would also like to mention northern affairs, what opportunities do we have in Iceland, to be the center of knowledge and innovation in the Arctic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u39	Mr. President. I wanted to take advantage of these two minutes to draw some things together and to respond to what I can do in my second talk. In other words, we need to concentrate on making supporting environment more efficient, reducing complex levels, and increasing cooperation between the institutions of innovation here. Here we are. to discuss increased cooperation between public organisations and investors in the private sector, as well as increased cooperation with foreign investors and funds as well as a better linking university and professional life. These are often discussed by means of an inexhaustible intelligence and resources, and often, of course, but I wanted to emphasize the importance of the interaction here, and it's completely hanging. It's not either that or it's walking an inexhaustible intelligence. improved use of these limited resources, i.e. Make more of the same. Of course, it is important that all general requests are practical, orderful, predictable, and simple, that here we can do better, political stability is there, fascinating society, which I think is something we should do more on, especially when it comes to foreign experts, e.g. there are not many countries in the world where work as well as family life might be more compatible. For young women who want to go into innovation, there are not many countries in the world, if any, where it is so easy to be a woman. I think these are things that we take for granted, but we need a little bit of what we look like, or image, to put it in order. The course to be seen in May, which is why it is the proper order to be completed and then to take these actions. I think there's another thing that matters to me. She's got to be strong, educational like this. When we discuss the Valley of Shilikon, we are referring to what we need here. We need our mall, too. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we have many strong malls, seas, energy, tourism, technology malls, etc., but it's much closer to the cooperation of a university community, pioneers and professional life. [[The president calls.]] That is why I must say my words. A senator on a place of absence and living, I think it captures the discussion very well. [[The president calls.]] We're in too much apartment, we need more living together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u40	A respectable president. I am here a spokesman for the Central Party in this final session for transport programs, through five and 15 years of age. I would like to talk about these matters in a general way and the approach taken here. I'm not going to go into the details of the proposal, it's been discussed in the last two days, and most of my views have been expressed in the previous talk. But I'd like to take a talk about the big movie. First, I'd like to welcome the underlying prince's decision made by the approach presented in the Committee's list of activities, especially in the road system. Of course, no one who has observed the discussions during the past two days has missed the fact that the members of each body group, I think I may allow myself to say, probably never agree on the need to take on large amounts of transportation. There are differences in how to finance the operation, but the need is and the cost of accidents, time, and inconveniences that result from a poor transport system is many times the cost that needs to be fixed severely. I immediately criticized last spring, saying that I don't appreciate the amount of money in the form of an earmark for transportation and building up the road system in the government budget until five years ago. We are in a position of obligation to look for ways to get closer to what seems to be our appearance today that all of us agree that we need to find out. It is quite an unannounced message for us to bring up our voters, the people of the country, that the footways from the capital area, the Smokenes Way, the Southland Road of Selephos, the Westland Road in the city of Towns, will be incomplete for the next 15 to520 years. It is not an acceptable conclusion that there will be very little construction in the capital area during this same period, that the Western root system will still be partly malar and soiled after 15 to 20 years. That is why I am so happy that the committee made it clear that the main thing we all know is that we must go to the task of finding increased funds for transportation and the way that has been on board and most discussed and presented on the committee is, as we all know, so-called charges, speeds, remunerations, or whatever name they want to be paid. Then, when we begin to discuss the update now during the spring convention, we need to consider whether there are grounds for setting something up as a stock or a financial donation in the public part of the enterprise that could be held on this project, a fiscal enterprise that would result in the change of state property, e.g. sales of Iceland banks as they walk through. There are other Kingdom assets that could be looked upon to enter into it as an amendment or as a trust fund on such a project. At the same time, we must look to the profit of it, e.g. In terms of accidents, elsewhere in the state's business, it may be used to support these projects. And a very important point in all of this is, as we have often seen, that there is a step back to measures such as the general tax system and the public costs of vehicles and traffic. In terms of time savings, traffic security, fuel saving, and so forth, the users get a lot of access to improved transport. So I think that we need to frame this work on the budget, so that the payment will not come as a direct addition to the taxation team, the drivers of the country and the move companies, but will be implemented so that it will be supported by the prince's decision to make significant improvements in the construction part, to the target, if it is possible, in a much shorter time than otherwise possible, and so that it would not be clearly visible in the household records and that their survival in the road will certainly be the advantage and hide in this change of approach. This is what I wanted to say about the roads and the big financing speech that has taken place here in the last two days. I wanted to go to the airport for a few words. I would like to express great satisfaction with the way the approach is made to the flying issues of the Committee on Environment and Transport Committee. They are linked to the report of a group as a dog. paritaprevir On the other hand, Trausti Friðbertsson's northern confidence led to a recent discussion of internal subsidies. I think most people would agree that we need to find a way to view the international flight as public transportation, such as the bus and bus ride we have known for decades. Of course, most important is the use of Isavia, the Cheflavor airport, to cover the maintenance and construction of the secondary flying system in the country of Reykjavík, the Akureyri Airport, and the Angelic Airport. It will provide much space to support other airports within the country, whether it is a Bilddu, Isadur, Cape, or West, wherever you want, since it supports the international airport, supporting the tourist and its construction in the faraway areas, supporting the flight of teaching, during the medical flight, and so on. So these are making great changes. I think, in all the context of these changes, we need to look to the instruments of the international agreements we are part of at the airport and to the institutions we associate with in that environment and look for ways to be remembered by additional fees. We look for ways to finance these things first with our involvement in these contracts and institutions, in the way that we can and should be able to, before any further payment on the international flight is made, because it has been in trouble lately, as we all know, and beyond the length of time. I repeat, we watch the international flight as public transportation. This, of course, is the link between many areas of the rural capital, where a central service has been built up and serves the target of a transport program, that all can reach the capital within three and a half hours by means of a mixed route. Finally, because now is the end of the time, I'd like to say a few words about financing. Now there's a lot of interesting work to do in advance. There's a goal for big-time projects. I'm convinced that we senators will find the way to a good mixture where quick charges, changes of state property, careful remuneration and general, reasonable approach will leave road users in a position to enjoy a vastly improved road system without being impressed by it in the homebook. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u41	Mr. President. We don't do any changes in transport plans, and we open up the improvements that have been mainly under discussion. I'm going to grab a few of the criticisms we've heard. It has been criticized that the government is changing a course in these matters, and the process has been criticized. They changed our circumstances, whether they are social, security, or anything else, so that there is no shame in changing the course as they are told. I'm asking men to accept it. The main financing of transport programmes has been unregistered tax and cost for years. I have seen why some of them have gone beyond what they themselves have been. With transport funding now available, it is clear, critical, and otherwise that there is an additional need. And where should that addition come from? There have been some ideas, including some. to take part of the government's profits in government companies, to use taxes, to sell state companies, and to raise various fees. To answer, of course, there is plenty of other tasks. We have priorities for health matters, people can debate about it, and it's clear that if one of these things I've listed here, there's plenty of work to do for the money, even if only to fix the improvement system. So, like countless other fees in the community, the charges were chosen, and they are uneployed. It has also been criticized that there is no equal in this world and that all the tax paid, e.g. The city is collected into the country. That is so wrong, they are collected from various forms of pay, especially in the country. Let us say that the Horn of the Earth and that road goes in proportion to the number of people, or these three demolitions, and those others pay as much as the city of Reykjavík does. It is social justice that part of the reforms provided by roads march into the country. We can look to her national contributions if they want justice, but I simply call it social justice that needs attention. In terms of profit, when men charge, as I call this, whether it's the parking lot or some other fee, they have some improvement and there's no need to think seriously about what the benefits are of e.g. Parking fees on the Capitol, for example. An example that I have sometimes made is that I am making the real cost of a car running at $100 or even going over $100. on a mile [6 km], making it possible for us to be talking about 50 miles [50 km] on the road, we are talking about 3,000 to 5,000 kmoks. the cost. The amount of roads that are then worth tens of thousands of dollars or hundreds of dollars to this amount must be weighed, since that is the reality. When it comes to evaluating the profit, we have talked about time savings, fuel saves, and less breaks in cars. We have talked about security and practicality for the tens or hundreds of dollars there, for the thousands of people who drive for the necessary ways they need to go. The calling of this burdensome charge is not really true. I would also like to mention that the same critics open their fees in Reykjavík, whether they are called cutbacks, pollution costs, or anything else to land on public transportation and the flow of traffic in Reykjavík and less pollution in Reykjavík. We can call it due fees, street fees, regional fees, whatever. This ideologies are not strange to humans if they look at reality. The climate benefits, the less pollution, the payoff of public transportation and the incentive for fuel and oil car owners to pay for two types of fees, gasoline/oil costs, and road costs. Electric car owners and others like that pay a simple price, just a road charge, and that encourages energy exchange. You can't overlook it either. Then I'd like to remind you of the reduction of fuel costs, but it's predicted that in the next five years it's probably going to decrease by as much as 9 billion dollars. These expenditures include: magazines to meet them, but they are also temporary. Many reports have been made that these expenditures cannot be collected until the completion of the project, and they will be stopped when the loans are paid. Then we need to consider how an eco-friendly car becomes taxed or paid in the future by a mile tax or other means. I simply consider this an act of national interest. At one point, there was talk of the Halfground tunnel. There were bypasses. There are side effects in all the cases we're talking about structure. Some people are not better in geography than they claim they are. I never got tired of reminding myself of the old Cheflavour Way. Why on earth was he okay, but now it's not okay? Critics then open on charges within the capital area that will be collected electronically. The model is still Oslo. I'm also going to remind you that it's the general pleasure of those who live in that Norwegian region, at least Fifty-six hundred and sixty percent, with results calculated. The results of this operation can be seen. The priority order is and was prepared for transportation, it was only distributed in 15 years. They were setting priorities, so the most secure roads were put first in the way that a 15 - year transport program could be discussed first. These charges are the real priority order because these low costs are being rushed in the context of high driving costs. These projects are being speeded up for all and in the interests of safety and priorities by 5◯10 years. I believe the hurry I'm saying is the key point of this discussion. It's certainly a controversial route, but it's the best. I just want to talk about the city line because here goes the old man who wanted to see the city line filled with transportation. How, then, should it be possible when those speaking there, state, and city have not finished their negotiations? Two times 800 million are available, half from the city, half from the state, and half from the state, who are about to prepare. Then there are 2.75 million per party to the first stage. Where do they come from? It will be discussed in the same discussion. How is it to complete the rest of the years? Some say it is 90, others say 100, some say 110 billion projects, but it is absolutely necessary. Everyone in this room agrees that they need to be made up and removed and improved traffic flows in our fine city. I'm not talking about air quality. The same is true of public transportation in the country. It is wrong not to open the way for long - term relief in this regard. They have had a good look before 2019 C.E. It is also assumed that flights will become part of public transportation with countless reforms. As I have observed these discussions, I am deeply convinced that the greater part is on the right track for transportation and this opening of the road mines that will be better implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u42	A respectable president. It is a huge hole in a transport program, as noted earlier. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. This is a vital part of the work that needs to be done and quick to take action. No one shares that. It is obvious that these projects are missing in a transport programme that has to be accepted as it is, in the current version. It has been observed in the discussion that the missing projects are just the right way to cover expenses. I don't think it's a coincidence. There is too much chance to explain it in such a way. Paybacks as they have been presented here are burdensome, since all the predictions we've received, all the analysis we've received, show that the average duration of traffic will be extended despite the fact that we're going into these projects. There will not be time savings because people drive on the same route, they do not drive a shortcut. It's not fuel saving because people are running from A to O even though these transport improvements will be used. It could be compared if nothing were done, but doing nothing is simply out of the question. There was a large campaign application for elections and at the beginning of this government cohesion, but the product of this transport program is far below the average of the century. Then the big attendance exploded like a tire under this transport program, and although transport ministers and all classes, e.g. In the Southern District, if at the beginning of the terms of the terms of an initial period, the tax rate should now be set up in the form of a tax increase. This has often been shown during discussions at the council for a tax raise. This is not comparable to, e.g. It's a mollusk. It's a shortcut. The usual route was Hvalfjöndur. The statue that the pay was the tunnel. In this suggestion, e.g. It's the smoke track. It's usually the way. For example, if a person is a parent, he should be a good judge of God's Word. There are no other shortcuts. In the usual way, extra expenses are put, and that is tax. A government contract speaks of how to finance this so - called grand campaign. There is room for property money, but if considered closely, a fund is to be set. It should include at least 10 billion property revenues, 10 to 20 billion, each year to a minimum of 10 billion. According to a financial plan, these same income incomes, irregular property incomes, of which there are about 120 billion in four years, are about 30 billion each year. The money paid is gone. There's the National Fund. Also, the transport program is to be financed by property income. These property revenues have been highly valued in some way. When it is being criticized that hunting charges and such things are to be used in all solutions - they haven't been done yet, they've been taken off so that they can't even be used twice, not even once - people can also think that there are many of the property revenues here. I've done a little good over what I'd like to call an interior debt. It became like the collapse of the bank, falling and rebuilding the banks. A loan had to be borrowed for the restoration of the banks, and in every aspect of society it had to be brought together. That's what made it an inner debt. Hv. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, was reviewing this in a speech yesterday on the founding accounts how this debt had actually come about. It matchs with those found economic calculations. That debt cannot be paid after the collapse of the bank. The bank crash has been paid with some bank tax and swelling farms, etc. but it's going to pay the depositment - and it's to be paid by reimbursement, by tax gains. Is that fair? I feel like I'm asking a very obvious question. The bank tax was to be paid for the loss of community life, but it has been removed despite the fact that the deposit is left. Many other solutions have been raised in these discussions. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir My memory is that Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year did not seem to have walked by e.g. property sale or disposal of other State property, then Istavia or banks, e.g. Iceland Bank. As a result, there are other means of financing, and expenses were chosen. But if policy is still going to property sales, what happens when Iceland gets sold? Will the value be used to pay down the road loans and pay off the expenses immediately? Doesn't look like it. That would be a solution, it might even happen before you start paying for a fart because you should not start taking it until the completion of the procedure. It would probably not be until after the completion of this terms. If the government's plan is to complete some property sales during this terms, it should be met before it needs to be charged. Some kind of idea could be replaced by this taxation idea. We will see how it develops into financial programs and the bill being proclaimed here. In spite of everything in the opinion of the greater part, the exact ideas of the transport secretary are to be proposed as the bill that will appear later in spring. It's not just "The Council wants it." I haven't heard anyone object. It is necessary to perform the underlying procedures. Not only are there recommendations given to be given to a minister to finance these projects from the General Assembly but it is said: "Present these projects in a certain way: with tax promotions, with tax expenditures that are going to a complete weight gain to the southwest corner, on those who go to and from work to and from the capital area; not just work to the capital area, but also to the southwestern corner. True, it is somehow distributed to all the inhabitants of the country who attend services to the capital area, but relatively it is distributed to the inhabitants of the southwest corner. In addition to this, a fly - off schedule is covered by subsidies, and the natural ones receive subsidies to fly over roads and actually release them on both sides. Finally, I wanted to mention only the work of the Committee. Of course, the Environmental and Transport Committee has a small impact on transport and the most recent movement on the Committee was that a new management of the environment and transport committee was being established. It was a decisive victory for the #methoo movement where a doer was expelled from his confidential work for the General. Otherwise, there was a problem more than at least received one point for #metoo which I celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u43	A respectable president. Here I come a second time with a second round. for a transport plan. During the past few days, objective and practical discussions of the existing transport programme have been made in line with goals that seem to be acceptable. The plan is very expensive. While a number of important projects are being developed, more are being set up for transportation than ever before, members of the Committee agreed that this was not enough. The debt to the transport system that has accumulated over the last decade is too large. It tells me that if we are to reach an acceptable location regarding safety, environment, transportation and network services, we will have to find ways to speed up projects in the coming years. This means that there are other methods of financing other than those currently available. The implementation of a majority of the Committee's Committees and the adaptation proposals are due to the proposed minor modifications that have mainly impacted the implementation of the 2019 and 2020, leading to changes in the progress of the road model. The objective, however, is to avoid delaying the completion of the five-year plan, but of these initiatives, some changes in later periods are aimed at returning after implementation of shortcuts in the road system. Thus, this program is not being overturned in the fall. In addition to these changes, the risk of user expenditure in the road system is covered considerably more than in the proposed schedule. These suggestions are provided on five additional objectives to the plan. One of them is about economic transportation, and it reads: The implementation of new financing initiatives and the necessary bill needs to be done with the aim of speeding up projects in the programme and creating financial space for new projects. Another objective that is set forward to material that I discussed in my earlier talk is the implementation of a system modification to improve the management, maintenance, and development of the flying system in the country. Two of the additional goals are involved. Then there is the objective of the construction of public transport in the country and the capital area as well as the current work at the shape of a vision in that area. It is similar with objective toward the city planning and transport project. As we have seen, the major milestones of the government and the organization of rural society in the capital area are in connection with the forward development of the journey there. The proposal for an additional target of a further agreement with the local Community in the capital area for the development of transport until 2033. I'm just going to come to the points I didn't get to discuss here yesterday. The Government Treaty states that international activity must be made more practical for the inhabitants of the country. Now, the majority have suggested that a new arrangement, known as the Scottish route, be implemented at the beginning of 2020. The transport process needs to take into account the environmental impacts and equilibrium between public transport. This proposal is based on the proposal of the Minister of Ministers for the growth of domestic flight. Special emphasis on further implementation of the Scottish route will not be provided with rigid restrictions on the purpose of travel or the complexness of a Witness's testimony. Seakeeping and rejection are important tasks that may not always be carried out during the discussion. Seas are the foundation of employment and valuables in individual communities and society as a whole, and they continue to exist in the cooperation and development of countries and communities. There are, however, some ports in the land that do not have government support. Emphasis is that national electricalization will be accelerated, both in terms of the environment and the economic situation. In view of this, the electricalization of a new General is self-recognized and necessary. I'd like to mention here that there is a reason to encourage the electrolinks of the map, which is the subject of a second and longer discussion. I'm going back to the road system. The transport programme contains important projects that are essential to planning such a project as this, but I think great opportunities include other funding, as well as a plan of payment. This will enhance and speed up transport for the better of society, but it will not rule out other means of building additional transport resources. If borrowing is taking place, it is important that the government's custody be paid and borrowed. The road was still responsible for projects in the road system, and they would be part of a transport program. In particular, members of the committee discuss three remuneration routes in order to speed up projects and increase safety. One of them is reimbursed at three institutions from the capital area, and it has been given the most extensive coverage here at this discussion. Another way is that certain roads in the region, which shorten the distances, will be financed by means of a combined financing, i.e. Part of the budget for transport and, in part, by borrowing that will be paid in payable. An example of what might fall into this category is a round highway around the Hornland and Axes Road. Similarly, the future development of a natural tunnel must be possible, and third, the collection of roadways in Iceland according to further implementation to the services and management of a tunnel will be implemented, while a new land tunnel program, part of a transport program, is covered with the aim of not to be interrupted. The schedule will also specify which tunnels will fall under payment and for how long. All of these pathways require a more thorough implementation and analysis with respect to translucency and equilibrium. With varied funding opportunities, there will be room for other transport improvements in line with priorities and agreements between the state and rural society. In accordance with the regulations for transport, an order by the Council shall be submitted for the resolution of the transport programme on at least every three years. I think it is obvious that less time is needed to pass until the next development of a transport strategy because of what has been explained above, especially the five objectives that a greater proportion of the committee suggests that transport will be better developed, safe transport, economic, and social development. Finally, I want to thank you for the cooperation of the Committee. I have never participated in a case here at the General Assembly that has been spent for as much time and as many visitors have come to it. Many factors have been reviewed more than once. I thank you for your cooperation with the Committee and believe that here we are looking forward to a great and positive change in transport in the country over the next few years. These objectives will not take time to become one, two, and three, and they will take time again to implement everything. To do so, we need to set aside sufficient space. But changes are ahead. Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u44	President. The transport program we are discussing here today has a brief application of human dreams to set down prenup charges. It was from the beginning set in such a way that projects in the southwest corner could not be discussed under any of the merits of any other initiatives, but it was accompanied by an increased payment on the traffic that would be introduced by road charges. I think it's a bit Colombian in itself that just those who count themselves to the right men and don't trust their left men to some kind of work are the same people who are in charge of the tax increases that are due to follow the roads. That, then, is the right course for these right men. In fact, they also oppose business freedom, speak for high customs and agricultural protection, and so on. This is no right policy, this is a protective policy, this is a tax promotion policy. The emission point for the more part of the environment and transport committee at this work is to include this road expenditure without fully checking whether other means were capable of funding the necessary projects, without even allowing us enough time to discuss or implement a road payment if other options should be provided, and by what means we want to maintain a future budget on the road system. It may therefore be noted that a review of the future financing of the road is needed because of the reduction in the share of road fossil fuels and, of course, the decrease in income of the state fund, of which it is absolutely correct. If there is a desire more than enough time to be careful until work is done, taking the time that would be necessary and would normally be the case by the General for such changes in driving costs. But, no, right men dream of reveries, and, of course, it is interesting to see the left green join them as an intense supporter of this idea. It is very interesting when you see the list of more parts on projects that could be met with a cut-off that all of them are in the southwest corner. When it comes to reimbursement, the construction of the land does not have the same effect. The ransom would come at length on the inhabitants of rural areas on the Smokeynes, the Southland, and the southern West. The population of some 50,000 who travel most likely to and from the capital area will then need to take on special tax increases or expense because of their journeys. We have listened to the speakers of the greater part try to convince ourselves that this means so much savings to the same population. The distance will be exactly the same. It is never to speak of any shortcuts that these residents are benefiting from in fewer miles [km] with the resulting cost. Granted, there is a great deal of security being done by the barriers referred to there, but the direct benefits of those most likely to use this road are not like those of what was, for example. to the inhabitants of the West, when the Cradle tunnel came along and the massive shortening they caused. The whole thing is being grappled in ideologies. We should focus on simply discussing how we really can contribute to the financial and priorities of transportation that meet all the most important projects in our road system that we need to work on. The greater part, the government, told of the project, took the initiative to find out how we are going to finance these important projects, and achieve nearly wealth when it comes to one of the most important things that is the structure of public transportation and a city line in the capital area. When I look at e.g. Funding and funding to the important public institutions in these same rural areas, as in the case of the South American Institutes or the South American Health Institutes, who receive much less funding for each member of the capital and other countries, I often wondered whether the same message will be delivered on behalf of this government, that the only way for these rural communities to get increased funds for these important institutions is that the user charge of Southland or Southnes will be made particularly high. No, I'm just hoping that this group would never think of such nonsense, but that's what they've done on transportation. These groups are to be paid especially for the necessary transportation that these 50,000 residents of the land will no doubt use most. A large part of the group that has been moving into these rural communities has been looking for a reduction in the cost of living and a more favorable housing price but is getting this pleasure from the share of the transport committee and the government on pay. We hear large statements in the majority of areas in which people are proud that for the first time, this is a fully developed transport program. Even now, this is the first development of a transport program, which in force is a financial plan at the same time. It may not be too much to ask that the majority of the items depend on their own financial plans. Even if they have managed to follow their financial plan, it may not be too much to be proud of. The problem, however, is that all the expensive projects are excluded. It is said: "Well, we're going to find a way to tax you especially for them. As a result, this transport program is clearly not setting priorities in the right way. Once again, I say: The biggest and most urgent projects are simply left behind. These are rather incomprehensible boasts that the majority of the committee prides themselves on. The fact of this matter is simple: There is a need for significant transport improvements. It takes even more than the largest part of the building project because it forgets to take the necessary infrastructure within the capital area into account and build up the city line. All of us are probably talking about 100◯110 billion in important projects taken out of parentheses in the transport program presented here. It is all the ambition of this government when it comes to necessary transportation, when a slow game would have been taking over this matter in this hall, and at the same time finding other means of financing these vital transport improvements. We have noted that the State holds at least 300 billion assets in financial companies. There is no Western country that shares as much of its financial system as we do. It's easy to get out of the world even if the state remains in its two business banks, which could be released, e.g. about 100 billion over the next five years in slow, organized paces, and transformed it into an investment. It would be good for public money. But, no, there is no political solidarity in this government. There won't be any changes. Although independence allows itself to talk repeatedly about the importance of releasing part of the state's financial capital, it is evident from the claims made by prime minister that there will be little or nothing done during this ideal period of activity. It is a sin, for it would be much wiser to take money that the state has bound up in these companies, and can easily clear up, and to use for needed infrastructure instead of going the way this government seems to do so often, only increase the expenses of the state's funds, drown out and raise taxes in order to finance it all. It is the simple truth that always reveals better and better. Despite declarations of the contrary, the discovery of a miracle tool could be made that could be increased by a quarter of the state's budget in four years and that of reducing taxes at the same time to meet a compromise between the left green and independent groups, it would have been found that compromise is not good, since a very peculiar magic device had been developed. Now we look into the first tax increases of this government, but certainly not the last.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for his story. There are many things I can agree with from what he said. How low can one government be in adding to the common population of this country? Don't you think it's a little awkward that it's the 20th birthday of the left green that's supposed to be hanging the roads on the Icelandic common people? No matter how low the amount is here, you don't have to pay unless you're talking about 300 bucks. On this line, or 500 c. on the other leg. An individual taxated by less than 300,000 k. In the case of a person who is taxed for extreme poverty, he cannot afford to pay one more dollar to the amount of charge he or she needs only by having a car. There is no doubt that we need large transport campaigns that have been driving around here and that the situation was transformed on highways and streets, that is pretty clear, with increasing tourist currents, over a period of time, reached 3 million tourists, and all the heavy transport came out onto the highway after the coasts ceased. We know they're singing up the street system. We know that the leg needs to be doubled. We know that there will be big accidents and Icelandic people, as well as tourists, who are in grave danger. We know that the cost of road accidents is some 50 billion per year. But what can be done? Is it not allowed to straighten things out and to do it quickly and quickly without going to pick up the account on poor people in Iceland? That's it, isn't it? What about the carbon that will reduce climate pollution and such? Isn't that a bit contradictory, though, when the left movement speaks of the carbon tax that gives some billions of dollars per year, two years ago, I think it was about 3.5 billion, and now it's been raised by more than 50%, so each person calculated. We've probably got over 5 billion this year on carbon. Can it not be used to build the roads? And this twin to talk about climate at the same time that we burn in back over 66,000 tons of coal a year. If we try to compare this with the incredible pollution that comes from, for example, how much the motor fleet would now pollute. Back, plus 45,000 tons of wood burned there every year and moved here to a country of cut - off forests? How are we going to finance this? We can, for example. take 10 billion more of the loans placed on Icelandic car owners and put them directly into these projects. In fact, no matter where you look. The priority order of money here is crazy as usual. The cables are put on them as much as they should. They always say that the arched bums can bend more, those who have been here on their knees asking for help from the Allied council and us here for help. They only get another punch in the face, another rag in the face. No, you don't need help even if there's only 22,000. paid. Even if you have three children, you don't need help and you can't give them anything. You're going to pay taxes, road taxes. That's what you boys get in the head. If you can't afford to pay these taxes, you can just stay at your house. The message is clear, more dignified president. The people are totally opposed to the priorities of money. She's actually the last one. It is long since time to stop laying on more spells and looking for light to find new tax burdens for those who cannot afford to pay it. It is long time to face those who have a pocket filled with money and let them take further part in our drinking and building up the wood. They can afford it. The priorities, a respectable president, are the last ones. Once again, I stress that there is no time for the crowd to pick up at any point in doubt that there is a need for a cast of rock in the pavilion system. Consider, for example, the former tourist stream, our tourist resources, that is, they are now about 2.5 million each year. Where are the charges? Where's 2,000- to-dos? every passenger that comes to America? Would that be so distressing? There's something else I think about. It worked out well with the Half - rover tunnel, a natural task, and a task that was designed to shorten the road, to improve, and also to allow people to drive the Whale Land if they did. At last, when everyone had become accustomed to paying for the tunnel and thought it was just that it was probably a deal, as it were to be done, and the tunnel was returned and everything was returned to us, splags stopped collecting their fees. But I'd say a proper government had decided in advance and at least to give the opportunity to think, " Since it has become so rich in the national soul and has succeeded, can't we continue to pay this fee with the reference to mark the capital and put it in the most direct way in the structure of our road system? ' In fact, no matter where you look, money can be found elsewhere than by adding more taxes to the Icelandic common population. Those who have enough money, I don't even talk about them, we wouldn't even notice if we had to pay a thousand bucks to drive to Selephos. But the one who does not have an estimate of the CD and cannot make ends meet, a respectable president, will remember every hundred times on which it is placed. And I'm sad that those who have never pissed off in saltwater and who don't know what it is they can't get in those tracks by any means. It seems impossible for them to understand that there is a social group in the banks of society. A respectable president. Is it not the time to do these things wisely for everyone instead of making this pathetic move today, which should simply add more taxes to the Icelandic population? It's amazing that this happens under the control not only of the left green, but under the Independence Party, which is presented here in every election campaign and hardly put the independent people here in a pit in a different way than to say they'd rather reduce the curses of the common people and reduce the taxes. However, their commission has been increased by 50%. And now, new taxes, so-called road taxes, are to be put on. A respectable president. I think it would be easier to smile in the face of the Icelandic people, put our arms around our people, fix the streets, and look to where the money is found with proper priorities, rather than taking up foreign loans at tens of billions, and then drag the payments on the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u46	Mr. President. This is where we'll talk about a transport plan until the next five years. Under the view of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee, I made a specific note that I will explain later in my speech. Transport is truly burning on the people of the land, for it is clear that the road system in this country needs more than that, and the need for new projects is urgent. As everyone knows, the pressures on the road system have increased dramatically over the past few years, both in unprecedented increases in the number of tourists and in increasing employment. The road system has suffered because of lack of maintenance over many years, and in the long run, heavy pressures have been reduced. So it is time for action to take action. To road users, even for the next 15 years, to drive along narrow roads without a separate drive in and out of the city, where traffic has become as high as you can see, is simply not acceptable. I believe that it is proper to take a few words initially to the general practice of regular committees of the council. Thus, most cases come to a full degree from the plots they have been prepared. In turn, the committees of the Generals take care of the situation. At times, repairs or repairs are made, followed by a legal bill or proposal through the council, in most cases not changed. Thus, the vacancy, bills, and suggestions are actually made by the executives, advisers, and officials in the councils. Thus, at the General Assembly, a lecture on the products of the advisers is presented. This is what I've talked about before and first in my virgin talk at a council in December 2017. I believe that to further the initiative of the General Assembly on legislation and that the legislation of the legislature must be increased by the legislatures to provide more efficient implementation of the legislation project. In this light, I have to express my satisfaction with the procedure carried out on this particular matter by the Environment and Transport Committee. It is hoped that they will find that what is to be done, because the terms of the Council are actively and conclusively in terms of a legal agreement from the beginning and against the policy being presented there. That's the way it should be, and that's why I'm especially happy for such practices. Mr. President. In the circumstances I have gone through, the committee was about to let the road system drive on and accept that several of the urgent transport projects would be left inaccessible for a long time, long or shorter, such as completing a double Smokey track up to the terminal, Westland roads through Kjalarnes, and up to the citynes, separating road transport policies all the way to Selephos with a new Elfury Bridge, and many more urgent projects. We also saw that a geograph would stop, perhaps the next decade. It was not the vision that has been called after. The fact that roadfarers would be made to wait even 15 years for the challenge was simply not within the picture. So, under the opinion of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee, I would like to write about a few things I would like to consider. The warning is as follows: ▪ I support the Commission's opinion on basics in advance. I believe that it is necessary to take practical measures to speed up urgent transport improvements. In this way, I feel that the sum of the roads and the extraction of discounters must be made clear and that the reduction in the rate of car owners is particularly focused on the reduction along with the recording of roads. In that case, I don't believe that the budget intended to go into the upcoming national fund in part to contribute to transport projects and chemicals such as Dizziness. I also believe that the product of mass taxation is to be avoided by those who have to travel through a number of roadways to attend service to the capital. I believe it is important that we reevaluate the general expenditure, i.e. The oil and fuel costs and automobile taxes will be assured that such as road costs, a car owner's charge does not add extra charge to the pay and safe traffic flows. Mr. President. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees are, in effect, considering that they are being directed to a minister in a more precise way to further and, in a particular way, address the policy developed by the Committee, i.e. to speed up transport projects by suggesting that they be funded by charges. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can agree with the greater part, to work targetedly on improving the road and transport system as rapidly as possible in terms of the cost of climate efficiency, equalitarian and security targets, as shown in my warning, by the implementation of road costs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] I hear the bell. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to speak up for the President's meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u47	V.E.G. President. Although an agreement has been made between the representatives of 61 members of the council groups, I am not among them and must therefore inform President of the Council that in this matter there is a Congress law, seeing that I was here in my second speech, which, according to the 95th chapter. Ten minutes of contingency. In fact, I've got five minutes left in my third speech, so I'm at my highest. There is a law in force in the country, and it will not be replaced by the majority of the council at one assembly meeting without the members of all members of the Parliament, even if the greater part is large. Such an agreement does not promote the right of a senator under Congress law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u48	Of course, the Speaker will want to look into this further and call for the exact agreement made. Now the chairman, without directly referring to the article, knows that members of Congress can make an agreement to limit speech time, as it were. A senator mentions. He could then limit the time of his public talk. The rules have to be followed in this regard, and the President will see to it that this is done. Of course, if the senator has not received the period of public speaking that he rightly deserves under law, he will correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u49	Mr. President. I thank the President for his efforts to examine the Congress Act. They're perfectly clear. Second round. of the Parliament's decree, each member has the right to a ten - minute talk. That's perfectly clear. I have an appointment and it's the bell on me in five minutes. I want to point the top, too. It is my right to give a second talk to this team for five minutes, and the meeting of the council classes does not issue this clear law in the Senate. [[Up front.]] No matter how much more is determined by this, whether he is 61 members or 62, it is enough that there is one who has that right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u50	The President has a right to consider this further. I was thinking of taking a break at a council meeting unless you want to continue coming up here to make sure that it's exactly what the law says. Of course, the senators are entitled to a full session of public speaking, as the norm puts it. But again, president of the court that there is a possibility - President of Congress knows there are sources in the U.S. Congress to limit speech lessons. Now the President intends to determine if this has been done before further progress unless someone else wants to come here to discuss the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u51	Mr. President. I thank the President for the obvious good will of the case. Of course, it is imperative that the members of Congress be fully justified, as the norm recommends. I'd like to suggest that this meeting be interrupted until the observation as high as possible. The president announced that he would be finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u52	A respectable president. Last night I was called and told that it was someone's will to finish the discussion in a certain way. There was no conference of conferences to decide, but it was here in the tunnel, and I informed them that this was what should happen. Of course, I immediately spoke to a president and asked what was going on, why not everyone had been included, and there was an explanation. Then this morning I learned that the independent members of Congress, or one of them at least, would be allowed to speak for only five minutes. So I asked the president why this was okay because I think it's unnatural to limit the speech period of a senator who has the right to certain things. So I was informed that this was the first order of tradition and that, secondly, there is somewhere in the Senate to find permission to do so. Either way, it's a total legacy, so I suggest a president take a break and a break. A senator or a member of Parliament will be given the opportunity to speak as permitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u53	The president has talked to the Generals about the matter and reviewed it. This is found in 2 mg. 86. g. which says: Then the president shall consult with the chairman of a council on a matter of vital matters, if it is reasonable to assume that there will be a great discussion. Then, with the approval of all members of Congress, the president can decide before the discussion begins that there is a time to be different from the assembly, as well as how long the discussion can last. When this is the custom of a panel for a period of discussions, it should be divided, as it were, half between members of Congress and half of its members, considering how many members are in each body of Congress, the president who then decides for a session of non - members of Congress. However, if at least Three senators insist on this. As the president said, he will, of course, respond and make sure that this is a matter of Congress. Based on this law, the president, who has received confirmation from both the president of the Generals and the Generals' office, seems to have the same concept, whether it is unjust or not, that if members of Congress negotiate with him to limit the duration of the speech, it is permitted to slip from the 95th paragraph. which speaks of a public talk period, and, on the other hand, when a contract is to limit the time of speaking, it is the president of the council who gives talks to those sitting outside groups. The president seems, however, to be in full possession of the laws and regulations of the council, but the members of Congress, who feel that their speaking period is overly limited, would discuss it further with the president of the council. They may even object on the basis of this and call for votes on the president's decision. Then three senators will need to be held, and I will not doubt that these two extracurricular members will be able to find someone to support such a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u54	Mr. President. I appreciate the explanation for the president, but I can't see they're relevant here. Such a decision is expected to be made by members of Congress. It was informed before the highest level. The president interrupted the meeting that no such meeting had been held. This article must have been explained in a way that there is a decision, an invitation to a meeting and to hold a meeting, a book being made that this kind of decision has been made if this article is to be applied. That's the only way. This kind of interpretation isn't a proper General.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u55	President. Last night I received a phone call from a member of the Parliamentary Office where I was told that members of the Parliament were together with a president to discuss some agreement to limit the speech period and that one should speak tomorrow, i.e. To this day, as spokesman. I had not heard of this, so I told the Generals' staff that I liked it because neither the president nor the other members of the council had discussed it with me. That was the end of a conversation. I came here at the Assembly Hall. Of course, I had my people put on the rosary, for you can't make such a deal without everyone having it. At that time, I was called to the president's carpet, where the discussion had to be completed and I asked if we were willing to do so. I took a moment to think about it, and then we got off the rosary, considering that there should be some agreement there. There was never any meeting among the council plans. It was never clear to members of the council what in this precise detail, i.e. that certain members of the Parliament did not receive the time of public speaking that they might have in all of this. You're right about 86th. it is assumed that if it comes to an agreement, the president can arrange a session for those outside. [[The president calls.]] There's no way to live for this kind of work to be done again, that it's running around in the tunnel, trying to make some agreement between a group, and then others set against a wall, as I think it might have been done last night. I think it's very wise that we here will just decide that this fine senator will have the speaking lesson he needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u56	Mr. President. This has been shown in the matter of why. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, son of Sveinn, chairman of the Central Party, says that he is not a member of this agreement, yet in the 86th chapter of the Council. That, when it is thus composed between councils, i.e. a limited talk period or a specific discussion, the president may decide to cut down the time and the speeches. It does not seem to be a matter here, it appears that a cutting without consultation with all members of the council is not appropriate. I just want to remind you once again, as I've said before, that the country has laws called Senate laws and they can't be turned aside on the gangs of the Generals in conversation. [[The president calls.]] It's just like that, we live in a democratic society - still.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u57	President. I find it appropriate to make comments about the conduct of a president to two non - members of Congress. I don't think the president's explanation before us has given me a certain president's superiorness, including the president's office. The President of the Generals, as the acting president described, to these members of Parliament and their position here. As already noted, there was no formal agreement that would have had to be based on, but I believe that even if such a agreement had been established, it could not be concluded that two non - members were bound by an agreement made by members of the party, since the rule has been that when members of the council come together and try to conclude that they are all with, the heads of Congress, or there is no agreement. In other words, they can, in a sense, bind members of their party, but they can hardly bind members of the council who are not in any of the parties of the agreement. And well to mean, there wasn't even a deal in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u58	The president has made it clear that no matter how unjustly the law of Congress seems to men, when acting as a senator, he has often made the statement that the authority of the council is great, but as a acting president, the president has confirmed that members of the council are allowed to negotiate under the law and appear in the hands of members of Congress against the President of the Council and other members of the Parliament. These are parties, and they can certainly make them a phone line deal like what to do. Senators who've been working here okay for a long time know. It is under law, so it is permitted, no matter how unfair it may seem to humans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u59	Mr. President. The clear provision of the Senate debate sessions will not be set in the beginning by referring to some conversation on the council's corridors. If it is to be used in the terms of Congress, the requirement must be made to set up a meeting in which it was decided, that the decision has been made, and that this decision is made as well as legitimate decisions. I'm going to remind myself that we are at the Allied Assembly of Iceland and the legislatures as here appears to be offered just a long way below the dignity of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u60	The President stands for one thing about the legal explanation, and that's why. The head of the Central Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, has said that this was not an agreement. Without agreement, 2 mg is not up to 2 mg. 86. g. The Speaker has said that there was an agreement, so now it stands out something, but Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson - I think he's asking for the word - can explain to us why he feels that it was not an agreement, and then perhaps he would like to discuss this with the President of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u61	A respectable president. The issue is exactly when man makes an agreement and when he does not make an agreement. As I described earlier, I received a phone call from an FBI office last night and I was told that members of the Parliament were getting themselves down on the agreement to stop the discussion, one to two could talk and then be spoke in the morning, i.e. today. I became very excited because neither the president of the Generals nor the other members of the council had discussed this with me. However, I came here at the Assembly Hall, as I described earlier, and the president called me and told me that they had reached a conclusion. I took a break to see this matter. Our people went to a rosary to protest the methodology that had then been practiced by the president and the other members of the council. However, after my speech, I agreed to take the people off the rosary, and perhaps they could be viewed as an agreement. I'm not going to deny it if men interpret it that way, but it's crazy to go on this road running around here in the tunnel leaving two gentlemen who can't be allowed to speak here, as the Congress assumes. [[The president calls.]] I think, Mr. President, maybe there should be another recession at the council meeting to consider this situation better. Second, we always have the possibility of having the senator vote, and then we'll see what the senators want, where justice is. [[The president calls.]] I'm willing to back them two gentlemen up in asking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u62	The President has a right to vote on it, as he mentioned, three must be done before the discussion begins, so that possibility is not the case. Time for the conference? Is there anyone else who would like to comment on the President's conference board?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u63	President. I'd like to make a note that the president presented this possibility earlier, offered a vote if three men wanted it, but now states that what he preached here a few minutes ago is not an option. This seems to me to suggest that the President's explanation in general is somewhat paradoxed and clear, as we have seen, that the formal agreement would not have taken place that would have required the president to proceed in a way that he would try to do here. Finally, I would like to appeal to the president that now he must wish to let the Senate work be tolerated despite all that has preceded by the President of the Generals regarding the interpretation of Congress and try to resolve this matter by allowing members of the Parliament to speak, even if it was only a few minutes. Is it too much to ask the President of the Generals to allow members of the Parliament to comment on the extent of the transport program? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u64	President of the court says he read before 2nd. 86. g. in the law, in all efforts to apply here the law of Congress. That, in fact, is what the Bible However, a meeting should be agreed if at least Three senators insist on this. It needs to be done before the discussion begins. That is what is stated in the law. I mentioned it to why. Ólafur Ísleifsson's members and Karl Gauti Hjaltason in the conference period that it would be a way they could go in the future if they were interested in it and would return to the same position. In speaking of the talk period, there is now a valid agreement for it. The Speaker, as it were, can only be moved to this meeting, invite Karl Gauti Hjaltason to take a ten - minute speech if he specifically wishes to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u65	Now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u66	Yes, he can continue where that had been gone. Is that acceptable? The five - minute talk to complete its ten - minute completion, and then the acting president kindly wishes the senators to speak to the President of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u67	Of course, I don't make comments to the President's conference board, and if he wants to clear up the speaker's lesson. paritaprevir That's fine with Hjaltason Gautaça. However, I do not view it as an example, either to a word being spoken or to the respect of the authority of a president in such cases. What happened here yesterday was that when the vote was for length of meeting, the president declared his plans, that we would complete the coverage and payment of this case before the vote of the jury. There was no objection. It was a long talk file and realized that this may have to be a very long meeting in the evening or night to finish the discussion. That is why during dinner, people began discussing whether they would be better able to speak last night to speak, but then they would negotiate the end of the discussion, as it would normally be done, to finish it with a well - organized traffic system where members of all groups would be able to get the word. [[The president calls.]] It fell on good soil, and this was true of all the presidents of Congress. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson in the way he has described, I saw that he had entered the agreement. [[The president calls.]] I even saw it. on the telecommunication file. I take it very seriously if you cannot build in good faith an agreement on such things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u68	Mr. President. I will continue my speech. Thank you very much. Mr President is so much for letting me use these ten minutes. I put myself on the rosary here. Tuesday on the transport program. I moved back to the list, and yesterday I saw that I was very late and expected that I would talk about midnight or through it. I had calculated that because the president announced that the discussion would be over the evening. I was, and is, preparing myself, but then suddenly a meeting break. I had no idea. I was preparing for a ten - minute talk. Then a meeting break is taken, and it was decided to shorten the rosary, as we have seen. Of course, I was ready to give a ten - minute talk, and I'm still, so I'm going to continue with it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Mr. President. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees refer to the recommendations to the minister in a more thorough manner to expand and, in some way, to the general extent, the policy developed by the committee, i.e. to speed up transport projects in a specific way by suggesting that they be financed in the way that is reported. I can agree with the greater part that it will work to improve the road system and transport as rapidly as possible in terms of the practicality, climate goals, equality, and security goals. Presumably stopping soil after the completion of an animal tunnel will cause severe damage to many settlements on land. All we need to mention is a tunnel to Sufjörður, which is essential for the survival of the population and for the security of residents of Sufficiency and visitors who arrive there. Necessary geographing must be continued. In view of the greater portion I'm quick to support, it is assumed that this will be held out, that a funeral building will not stop. At certain tunnels, moderate stress is expected. When men spoke of dues, the Committee discussed that a tax rate of less than 150 would be paid. ... once in a while, and at most, something under 200 bucks. near the capital area. I took notice when I signed it and stated that the alarm is based on an acceptable amount of payment. I also warn that charges will be submitted repeatedly, such as. from the Hornfjord to Reykjavík. I'd like to see this before I give the support when it appears here this year. I want to see the amount of the roads. I would like to see the sum of the mass effects that will land on the inhabitants of the country and even the capital. I'd like to keep them from paying in the capital area often or on the way to the capital, I want them to be set up in moderation. I would also like to point out the obvious advantage of these ideas of having visitors who come here, i.e. Tourists, favours, and participate in the construction of the road system. In the Vaults, nearly half the income came from tourists, 40%. It would be possible to have visitors pay a bit of that. I want to see the discounts. I want to see how they'll be implemented. It's in my warning too. I also want to see the estimated national treasure. I'd like to get some amounts of money that will cover all the absolutely necessary projects, I'd like to mention the waterway we've been waiting for for for decades. Thank you so much for letting me finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u69	Mr. President. This will conclude the treatment of a body of Congress with a five- and 15-year transport program for the 2019/2023 and 20191⁄233, respectively. I have previously reported the contents of my committee opinion, so I will not go back to a detailed discussion there. I'd rather gather some of the opinions that follow the discussion on the matter here at the Senate Hall for the last two days. The United States calls attention to the situation in the country's transport, the ruined road system, the safety of road users, and the inaccessible conduct of the inhabitants of the country because of its unstable movements. During a time when the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir managed to save us from national surrogacy, the governments of the Independence Party and the Independence Party have chosen to starve our infrastructure, including the transport system, to say that the nation's emergency conditions have been brought about. The organization criticizes the government for having completely neglected its decisions to care for these up - to - date social infrastructures. In this way, the United States agrees with the voices of all the delegates who met the committee in the management of transport programmes, and significant efforts were required on national roads. The accumulated problems of transport in Iceland are clear and must be addressed without further delay. Therefore, it has to be said at the same time that most of the environment and transport committees are going to be suggested to postpone further the most urgent tasks that the road has said will have to be done with a milder responsibility. Governments are obliged to ensure safe transport. At that time, governments are also obliged to keep their word about the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, with the biggest responsibility of their private car. Neither of these projects is government. Now, when we vote for change proposals in making transport plans, it becomes clear what status the government groups take with the people of the country and the visitors of the country, including the entire world, the environment, and the climate. My proposals include the most urgent projects for the security of the citizens of the country and the implementation that the road has valued at the cost of about 13 billion each year, will be funded from our common tax fund. It also suggests that there will be actual improvements in the public transport of the country, both in rural and urban areas. In this case, the contribution of the State to the necessary work of the city line, which all rural areas in the capital area across political groups have agreed to go on. That's what the Company's all about. 13 billion a year is certainly a lot of money, but in the suggestion of a smaller section, how governments can manage that funding without paying more taxes and fees to the entire population in the country. It should not be forgotten that today's crisis will result in the cost of road accidents of 40 to 6 billion people every year. Experts who have studied the facts say that this cost will immediately be greatly affected by improvement and may save us tens of billions of dollars each year. So the projects will pay off soon. That's a fact, my dear Senate. Thus, taxation in the general public seems unnecessary. Rather, we as superiors have adhered to the policy that those who can pay while liberals, whatever they feel, have rather adhered to the policy of citizens who use it. Thus, liberals want taxation in all the public, as the government groups and the Central Party now recommend, so that they inevitably push under inequities, but it is clear that 400 k. The average annual pay on mains around Reykjavík and on all mountain tunnels in Iceland, as well as on a mile [ km], will increase the weight of the individuals whose income is lowest and will need to go to work, study, or health care, e.g. Right here in the capital area. Let us realize that all talk of this being done for the environment is an empty cane, for it is claimed that it is so encouraging to the inhabitants of the country to switch from gasoline and oil cars to electric cars. The evidence, however, is the amount needed when thinking is balanced, as is the more abundant means of investing in new and expensive electric cars. They drive on their old fuel trucks, whether we like them or not, and they still have less chance of switching to new electric cars after stressing further taxes. The ideas of the government parties are about to turn on a public road tax because of the energy exchange that will be placed every mile [1 km]. On the contrary, they pay taxes for the use of fuel - drive cars and will pay on the road and on the roads of the country. Thus, there will be triple taxation on certain groups by order of the government of the left movement, the green supply, the forwarding party, and the independence party. There is no shame in changing the course, as they say. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson in his speech earlier today. It is respectable to do so. Councilmen of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation recognize the reversal that this category brings with the proposed proposals across road taxes across the national meeting of its party. Let's not forget that the current chairman of the environment and transport committee is what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is probably the only senator standing on his positive position on road taxes in the country, who is the author of what we are about to vote for later today. This independent party's transport minister has thus directed work on the port transport program, but it may not be quite the same as the forward - travel minister of the advance party was headed for. It is worth noting that in the ensuing of the 2017 election, a national election program claimed that all members of the Independence Party in the Southern District were opposed. The same was true of the president. The forwarding minister of the advance party, who also claimed to be opposed to the charges. The reversal seems to have taken place in all three different governments. Mr. President. Where Are We? Yes, the government's transport program is now being opposed by the changes and protests of the environment and transport committees where all people have not been listened to fortification of the most important projects because of a road hazard. The project is suspended while the next step will be due to the development of the Independence Party for the stress of road taxes in Iceland. Mr. President. The safety of the people of the land must not wait. Thus, we in the United States contribute to the change in transport plans so that the most urgent transport projects under the road, which have a great deal to say, will occur, whether it is a new development or the development of a road system. We also contribute to public transport because we owe the public the present and the future that we take together, improve this system, and secure national security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-64.u70	A respectable president. It will certainly be a turning point, as it happens, that the Council is getting together to send messages to the Commission that this will be followed up in the marvelous development of the transport system on the basis of an additional charge where we are going to perform a significant change and see a huge change in the coming years. This calls for the whole community, although it is controversial, and it is only natural to have such discussions discussed. Most people agree. I find that many senators' troubles in their memory are reflected in trying to build up mudwood, perplexity of matters, and are far too often in some detail and outback. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is talking for example. It is very impressive that this is only being done in the capital area and that it has been discussed only in other respects unless it is considered possible to receive a currency. Of course, that is not true. A communication plan stands as it stands, and in Reykjavík, where a pack stands. A major part of the council is the mayor's special payment on projects within the capital. That discussion has not occurred in the Committee. However, the effects of these projects can be reached into the capital area, according to the ideas of a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees involved. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson also said that when it came to city line, we would return wealth. It is quite wrong, and the senator knows that it is just a false debate. It's in the committee opinion. It is also known, or I suppose, that negotiations are taking place between the local Union in the capital area and the Department of Transport on how there will be a massive improvement in transport within the capital area, and especially in Reykjavík, where men will pause and discuss a lot of accidents on the Ring Road, which is normal for a young child to be interviewed. We're in shock. However, the discussion does not stop that every year people in Reykjavík are seriously injured. Many people each year carry a persistent and heat - bearing ark after an accident in the capital area. Why? Because there has been no chance of making decent improvements in transport. It was noted that the South American Institute of Health would raise user fees. It says the same category that has already paid in Reykjavík. He has been able to raise the cost of a huge amount of expenses and prices on an apartment building without having any knowledge of how to proceed, what to spend it on. It is then beginning to collect them, perhaps with the exact influence on those who may be at least allowed to do so in Icelandic society. The hypocrisy during the discussion gets on my nerves. The people's party is a very special subject. Listening to what was bad was not exactly upbuilding. paritaprevir Sæland, which opposed expenses instead of continuing to fight for reimbursement that may be realized. There was a bit of a different approach. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason, who was once in the Gang of the People, because he's just spoken to me and we've discussed that at the time of the extraction, we would make some discounts special appearances for older citizens, for disability, as we do in many cases, to form in swimming and public transportation. I will work hard to do that, and I know that there will be solidarity in the greater part that we approach the less fortunate groups so that this will not be too burdensome for them. The costs of this discussion are often viewed, not the benefits. How much is this gonna cost me? That's normal. People stop at it. What's this gonna cost me that goes on a regular basis? Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has been very careful about where the benefits are, what it is, in fact, as it is proposed at a small cost of total parking. That's how we're getting close. We're gonna keep this modest fee. In the majority of these sections, we say that it is important that the benefits outweigh the costs. That's what we're going to do. It's a projection work now at the Department of Transport. We will also approach the equation of the people of the country and thus introduce the swamp held here by the groups that have not recovered in non-land senators and are trying to row in the centre of the capital area and to dust into the public's eyes in this area that it will only be paid to this area, which is by no means the idea of those who are doing this, but just to settle the payment so that it will become a national effort, an effort to all. This is mainly an effort to facilitate traffic, to reduce pollution, to shorten travel time, and to make it fast, much faster than the material being on the outside, and much better. Thus, the ideas that have been discussed within the majority of the committee are not that it is not looking at what road numbers today tell us whether there should be a misdirection or a double or a 1+2 road here and there, but we allow ourselves to work ahead, many years into the future. After a few years, we do not have to go back to each other's house with the tools and means to tear down the soil and work in the same trail. We'll finish this. This way can allow us to do so. It's an option, but there's other ways of doing this. As we have been through, we also need to look to others for help. Transportation should include, for example. Seaports and airports, as well as nursing homes, welfare systems, and other areas of the world that call for more funding. There are approaches that will take longer than likely to be considered and prioritized to some important class of subjects. There is no other option once again that offers the same amount of participation among the tourists who are traveling here to join us in this building. The matter is extremely urgent. If we were looking at this in comparison with something else in the community in which we react to serious things, we could not compare the customs that traffic is taking place in the entire population, in contrast with public defense conditions. That's why we want to go this way. That is why we want to respond immediately, even though we are ready to examine other ways and discuss reasonable arrangements as I have come in. It is important that we do not have the narrowness of interests in this regard, remembering that we are one nation, a small nation living in a large country. Valuables take place all over the country. The public ministry has been linked in many ways to that corner of the country. We need to take this into account. We need to give people a route, whether by air, by sea, or by land, in order to obtain the services they have received here. I don't think there's much more to me than the discussion with a small community where you're taking part in the discussion and people watch it with my eyeglasses and say, "We've been fixed here. Why should we start paying? Well, that's because we have so much left, and we need to view ourselves as a whole of this as another. I repeat the approach of most of the object. It goes on to level it on people of the land as far as possible, but let us remember that here in this place, there are many people. No matter what analysis is set up, it is important that we take the main steps below and do them better than we realize to be able to do in any other way. This will be the benefit to all of us, no matter where we live in the country. This, in turn, will result in further implementation, both within the capital area as elsewhere. I thank the Committee for the great work that has been done in her field in the last few weeks and months. I give myself and expect that we will be able to finish these matters properly.
