ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u1	President. I think it's clear that March 12th is, unfortunately, a bigger day than my birthday, June 9. Breakdowns with the European Union were extremely important and good to do at this point. It was necessary to eliminate all the uncertainty that existed with the possible involvement of Iceland into this coalition, which was taken out of the picture once and for all, at least for a long time. That's for sure. Similarly, we were saying to this overwhelming authority that was waiting for us in Brussels that, of course, we would not be subject to it in this rather than any other. Just that same power had been tried to influence the way we would resolve our own affairs here in the financial collapse and all of it. It was very important that we sit on ours then, March 12 when this happened, and earlier, of course. We all know the history of the collapse, the emergency law, Icesave, and all that. I'm going to say that we had few friends in the midst of friends in times of trial. Of course, our most vicious opposers were allies in the European Union, who would then try to push us under. Fortunately, none of that happened. History shows that we should, of course, make our own decisions based on our own interests and, of course, our laws, our national laws and international rules, as we have been doing in the matters we've been calling here. As a result, our situation is strong, making a plan for the emissions of the ocean an approved document. In effect, as I often have said this evening, men wondered how we did it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u2	President. I don't think there's any doubt that the breakup with the European Union has made a big difference in strengthening our position and for the people here who may have been primarily concerned about this objective, the policy of getting into the EU, and thus being permissive. We now have a government that has not specifically had the strategy to enter the European Union. Why, then, this permissiveness, for what is it? In effect, it is the fact that humans move closer to the Greek way. What did the Greeks do? What were the Greeks forced to do under the direction of the European Union? Yes, first, take out a loan and settle the demands in large European banks and in hedge funds. Why, then, is that the way of this government? [[The president calls.]] It's not good to realize, but maybe. On the left. A senator will answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u3	President. I must now say that it is not entirely fair of reason. A senator would ask the person mentioned here, have considered a few talks this evening, and try to find answers to these questions from those who would like to support this matter. I'm not one of them. As a result, it is difficult to answer why the government puts so much emphasis on finishing it. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A Greek senator, a fine example - of course, more nations were forced to go to a particular prowess on the part of this international coalition, the European Union - were borrowed and then sold their resources to pay back these creditors. It's really research, and it's already in place, just not to say the number, I can't quite remember it, but it's been wondered how much financial institutions that loaned the Greeks at that time were actually getting back from what they borrowed. That's a huge amount of money. While we had another plan that built on Icelandic interests, this nation was put back on this nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. To put my question in context, I will try to frame the interests involved today. Compared to 190 k. If we use it as a zero point in the interests and lower limits of 16.4%, the losses produced by national owners on March 12, 2017, the contracts of 90 billion, which are comparable to those of today's population, are in one way or another, based on the proposed scheme of 2015, from 13.6 billion to 23 billion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. The situation is that two executives have allowed so little effort to give a talk on this matter, the financial minister of the 1st. And the manager of the committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, 2nd. Together they spoke for 13 minutes, the highest. Secretary of the budget for seven and leading six. Is it possible for the senator with all his political experience to think of some matter of similar interest for government funds, 13.6/23 billion, and where it seems that the government groups are participating in some Icelandic contest in a silence? [[The president calls.]] It's like it's not supposed to be a major interest issue. Are you familiar with the senator's actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u5	President. No, I don't remember that such a big issue with such interests is under such a short discussion. Of course, I may be forgetting something, so there's nothing new. But I believe that if we put this into historical context with the case itself, i.e. The capital and all, let's be absolutely clear that there was much more discussion and interest in the case here earlier. In fact, long speeches were high, even when the budget was established. It wasn't quite so that everyone was completely happy and had to talk about much, which is normal, since it was, of course, huge. The point here is that we have not had any answers to the questions raised, including how humans justify giving or giving up, or what we call them, the great interests that come to pass. According to the bill, there are 25 billion people who can possibly be affected, as the bank does. It is very similar to what humans may be yielding. Then you wonder if it would have been better at home than started with this case. But we can't get answers. We find no answer to the reason why the matter is being interrupted, especially in view of the fact that December 14 was very urgent. I think if the case had gone through, Iceland record would have been clearly set at speed, by size and magnitude, if not just an Olympic record.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u6	A respectable president. As the past has passed today, the silence of the judges, the members of the statesmen, becomes more and more screaming has occurred to me. The members of the board of directors did not put the matter in perspective, did not discern the benefits. Based on the talks they have held in relation to much less interests financially, I think that's the only Hebrew explanation that no one is involved in this matter or that they have an opinion that it has not just been understood. I wondered what to eat. The senator's opinion is on how the matter has been taken in shock, whether a situation could simply arise that a person does not know what the interests are about to be given up. I'll never jump on the party gangs to count the Council to be paying off their property when men tax everything to death, as the party parties express themselves, but here they are actually giving up a interest which had been set up in a way that would be applied according to the 2015 plan. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u7	A respectable president. This case has been identified as having three committee meetings. One day, it would have been a reason to give such a big deal more time. Of course, the above opinion indicates that little has been discussed. The committee's opinion, as is the frequent introduction and presentation of the case. Then, in reality, it is just a matter of what the Federal Bank thinks in all of it. There are no attempts to dissect or to point out any dangers in the case or to explain why things have to be done this way, etc. Since there is little in the committee's opinion to describe the matter, we are little closer. Once again, you can hardly remember such a big matter being treated. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I wish to be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u8	V.E.G. President. So I'll continue with what was left over at that time, at the beginning of 2017, I made an agreement with the owners of an African country that was the same limit as I discussed in the previous speech today, or law of No. 37/2016. The agreement included buying from the banks of the country $90 billion in amounting to $90 billion. 137.5 k. on euro. African lovers who had not made an agreement with the bank were invited to make similar contracts in the next two weeks. That's where we're at 137.5k. At baseline, 190 k. plus. It is good to hold on to it, for it should not have been slowed down. In the news, the then minister of finance was not concerned with the concerns of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who then criticized this discount, even though he was pleased to be lifting his goats, this gift could be expressed. Iceland's Republic of Iceland's tender tender tender tenders were opposed to a plan for execution, which was announced by the former part of 2016. The invitation was far too late. This, of course, was to be kept when the pressure was strong, and it was not to be left in 190K. For every euro. It is, of course, government credibility. This is about financial expenses, and it's about the reputation of the country. It is remarkable to think that a minister of finance turned like him. He wasn't worried. In fact, today he argues that the 2015 project is being followed when all is turned upside down. I wondered: " What is going to be left of the land now? I reiterate the fact that in the beginning, the thought was to take care that Iceland's interests ended with the first obligation of the government to defend national interests. The plan was that all the loose ends were ruined, and the nation's interests and the government's actions were balanced - I'd like to say deportation. What urgent matter could have been taken advantage of? Everywhere there is a call for extra funding. We know that funding for law enforcement needs to be increased, especially as visible law enforcement officers. A report that told us that there are about 2,700 nurses all over the country, yet there are 270 nurses who are still missing an additional room for health care. It has also been shown to improve or rebuild up to 400 nurses in order to meet the needs of improved equipment, and it takes a considerable amount of time to go on that route. In fact, it can be said that the present system minimizes everything you can do. We can mention a penny in return, and the present system of things minimizes the work of people who want to and who can do their part. There is no need to wait for what is often spoken of as a system change. It can also be mentioned that money can be used to fix airports. Many of them have become inferior and hardly meet quality standards. In Ingelanda's observations on the AlCountry Transport Program, by 2019-2023, both sides emphasized the construction of the international flying sites, said that more space for aircraft, maintenance, and structure were missing around the international airports in the region, which are new as backup airports. So I have enough work to do, even though only a few people have enough work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. You see, it is wise to put things in perspective when discussing such interests and money, especially when they likely run onto billions and even billions of dollars. If so, it is good to recognize what is actually sacrificing. It is also helpful to bear in mind, too, when members of the so - called party party party party groups or left classes surface and hold in charge of tax recovery, they decided to move the hedge fund, or billions of creditors, on a silver plate. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that we are any closer to the reasons behind the discussion that has been going on for some time. Not all night out yet, but there is no hope that any member of the board will come here and explain the matter to us even if there may not be a great chance of doing so. Then I wondered if the senator feels that we have not received the answers that we need in order to understand why these matters are being handled in this way. Second, I wondered, " Is it reasonable to have no support for what the senator introduced, the great material interests being sacrificed? ' There has been no argument given to why this route is gone and given the enormous sum that would be achieved if humans had stuck to the plan. Of course, it would be a way out of the way to say that the plan is still being set out with this plan all together once a certain portion of this has been negotiated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. You see, putting things in perspective is very important, and it is very important to consider what is being sacrificed. Secretary of finance has turned on the dot. You can say that. It's something special because at the same time he'll be very talking about leeway, there's only a certain amount of space in place, so there's no way you can deal with all that people ask. After today's discussion, we're close. I understand that the two executives who have spoken the language spoke for a total of 13 minutes. It's time now. 23 minutes past 12 at midnight and I'd rather expect the head of the Economic and Business Committee, huh? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, if only he would come back later in the discussion and perhaps give us some answers on what is fundamental. Today and tonight, it sounds like there's not much money to be making on the report and even more of the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee, so we're close.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u11	President. Very close, now that's it. I think it would have been possible to simplify even this discussion if those responsible for this matter and would like to have it through had participated in the discussion and answered our inquiries or at least tried to convince us that this matter is the nature of it that it would be normal and fair to allow it to pass through in a violent manner. I'm not sure I'm going to say anything. Although this has been taken care of at one of the three economic and commercial meetings, of course it's not much of a case of this magnitude. In the end, the committee's opinion is a sign. In the bill itself, time is not specifically supported. These changes are just being considered, they are getting ready and making it easier for those who have these funds to get rid of them, and that in itself can be a certain goal. However, it is a goal that I think that all of us have considered that it is in contrast to the global situation where it would have been better to stick to our previous plan and apply, what was called, carrots and bats, so it would be clear that it would not be left behind. However, it is always hard to go back once you have held back. When the regiment is beginning to retreat, and the opponent is picking up, it is very difficult to find a position to get back in a hurry. No doubt there are cases where this has been done, but there are also many tragic cases of wars in which men get trapped and even have to survive on fishing boats sent from Britain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u12	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for. It is this clumsiness that raises all these questions, and it is remarkable that members of the council said here that they would not participate in the discussion, that it would be extended. I want to say something. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason, who mentioned today that there may have been more discussions if more people had participated. It is remarkable that only members of the Central Party maintain this discussion when enormous interests are involved. So the plan must be that at some point we get the answers we've been calling for. We're talking at least 84 billion, and if we go down to the smallest amount, we are talking about 23 billion, which is the difference between 137.5 k. Or 190 plus. It has been a lot of time pressure, and then it has been found that this time pressure was not due to the fact that yesterday and today too. It will be remarkable to observe how the matter unfolds, and the question is, Is it going to be even more yielding in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u13	President. I have not lasted two speeches to pass through the hold of the government and the Federal Bank, which is based solely on its own news releases. But when I have finally finished it, there is, of course, one more thing that needs to be discussed is related to this big matter, which the people in question would prefer to discuss as little as possible, probably because they lack answers to the questions and comments we have made here. At the beginning of 2017, the Secret Bank reported on trades that had taken place in 2016. There was an overview of how the so - called debino bank, originally consisting of $319 billion, had dropped with the available invitations or auctions of the bank's currency, and immediately, as I've traced above, repeated delivery to the owners of the land. It was completely inconsistencies and actually went against the source as it was introduced in 2015, which spoke of one complete operation to complete the case, a procedure to be performed in October 2015. But when it comes to March 2017, it is, as I mentioned earlier in contrast, that the Federal Republic of Iceland reports that the government has made a special agreement with African lovers outside every auction. So it wasn't enough to keep moving the line at the auctions and to keep new auctions and give longer deadlines and then offer to sell the currency at certain prices outside the auction, but a special agreement of over 90 billion dollars is announced here. has been discussed by the representatives of the Icelandic government to the owners of these African countries. And what was the success of this business to take place? 137.5 k. ... ontheEurope. It is appropriate to look back one page and review the last transaction in 2016, which was at the 220 - year - old control group. in EUR, November 1, 2016. Then governments make a special agreement with all other and much better terms for non-employers who had refused to play with them. Of course, it totally countered what was set up when the entire set was presented. Only March and 23 of that month will be informed about the proposed purchases of Iceland's Penitentiary on national level. There he invites others who had not been prepared to participate in the auctions to buy crowns at the same price and then reenact it at the beginning of April 4, so that they would continue to buy euros from the Secret Bank of 137.5 k. By June 2017, it is announced that the deadline has been extended twice to buy the euro at that price. That makes 137.5 jars. It doesn't look good enough anymore, no more than 190 bucks. had been good enough in their time, because they have already realized that the longer they wait, the longer they go out, the better they can expect. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The passing of time is not too fast. I'm going to have to ask the president to register me back to the rosary so I can finish this review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u14	Mr. President. How important it is to have a summary of all of this history, as we have received three talks from the column! paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. But even though all his speeches were very clear and well spoken, I admit that I still don't realize what led men to do in one blow, because they didn't get an offer at 190 bucks. During an eight - week period or something like that, and to get so nervous that 100 billion dollars would be available. of more than 135 k. The euro, or actually, 137.5 k. So I'm fair. It is the heavens and the sea between releasing 100 billion at that price or that 190 bucks. who said they were going to hang themselves. That is why you must ask: " What caused people suddenly to lose their feet in what they are doing? It's like a panic reaction, actually not the first you've seen at the Federal Bank, as if it rose to the control rate of 2015 during a collective contract and almost collapsed them because they had already given the idea that there would be a nonsenseing innuendo after the contracts, which would not be as good as everyone can remember. That's why you say: " Is it true that the Navy bank is just freaking out for the slightest reason? In itself, the bank manager has been acting like the cat Golíat after drinking a full bowl of cream and saying: " We are ready for everything, and we can get rid of so much money. [[The president calls.]] So I'm thinking, Is the bat freaking out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u15	A respectable president. It seems, in fact, that this story is looked at, but only by announcements of the Federal Bank itself, that it was some kind of chain-based retreat. Men started to yield, and then the owners of an off-country, as closely as they are in their interest, soon realized that they could be reimbursed. Then the reaction of the Federal Bank and the government, since the government and the government at that time and the later government had been able to do so, was to try more of the same; to give more. And with what result? Yes, it was merely a reminder that the river on the part of the demands, the leftover owners, and their team members, would work. What, then, was the next reaction by the government? Did they realize that this might not be the most likely way to do this, now should be said here, and no further? No, they try to give up a little more. This is how it goes, and at no time, the government seems to realize what they're doing with it. They are maintaining and strengthening, promoting the conviction that their owners will be able to go further. Just until we're back to this place we're at right now, crowning this with the perfect follow-up, one-sided delinquency on the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u16	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. Apparently, the hedge fund works like a hyena group, i.e. They seek out the weakest chain in the flock, which is withdrawn from him, and they attack him with the familiar result. And somehow you'll think of or you'll find that the government and the Council specifically didn't realize who you were dealing with. This was known by those who had been engaged in this struggle ever since 2015 and who had invited men to bats and carrots, who knew that there was no other way to get hedges in the right direction. It is as if the Council of Jehovah's Witnesses and the entire government of today and the 10 - month government, too, have been completely freaked out by the first objections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u17	President. Perhaps it would have been helpful to consult psychologists, psychologists who are educated in the psych field, to determine if this was the right way to do it, always to give gradually more and more, and whether it would be likely that the owners of the land would at some point say: Now I'm just happy. I think it could have been explained to the government how wrong their psychological approach was. This is sometimes called for a feeder of crocodiles, thinking that if people give them a little more meat, they will become content and peace, when, of course, they are maintaining their aggressiveness, in this case, maintain the ever - increasing demands of their leftover owners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now we've come to the point where in all of this, we've been calling for information from the management forces, or not just governments, but from the government class and the left classifications of government positions, about why they want to accept this matter, and why they want to put so much emphasis on it. However, it has also been shown that this is not the first time that we are told that this case has to end because there is so much urgency, markets get agitated, etc. That happened here in December. So it is tempting to conclude that not everything has been explained to us why the matter must be handled so quickly now, since it was not necessary to complete that issue on December 14. You also wonder if it's like we saw in this discussion a few years ago when the Icesave deal was being discussed or something, there were evening meetings and night meetings, and tried to drive the case through, try to make it possible for a man to give up the conversation. I wondered if there's something there that hasn't been completely informed us yet, that there's some sort of contract, possibly back deal, that has been fixed to these owners, who will be so shocked once this case is approved. There is good reason to think about it and to fear it at the hands of experience. Another such statement has now been made in this chair to determine whether men were making it or not to negotiate even more than this, which proved to be not entirely in harmony with the book. I'm asking why. A senator whether it is time for us to answer the questions we have raised, at least to learn why in the face of other political groups - well, all except the media, is so important to finish this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u19	President. Surely, it is time for some of the supporters to begin to comment on why they feel the right thing to do here. But I'm pointing out why. A senator suggests that if those who present this matter were really proud of it, is it likely that they had tried as they did, putting it in here almost outside the program on the last assembly meeting day of the last year? Or it is likely that, as happened here while everything had been put up in the council, it would have been introduced in this way to the highest degree. The secretary of finance snuck in here, spoke quickly for over six minutes out of the 30 with which he arranged to introduce the matter, and returned - it is likely that they would have been proud of this matter, as it were. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, seemed to think that man should be. Would he, then, have held that presentation in such a way? And it's likely to be. The head of the Economic and Business Committee would have been content to read here on short committees and say that it would be so good for a discussion on this matter and be gone if it was really a matter of government pride? No. It seems to me that there are some indications that people want to avoid all discussions about this matter because they don't have the answers, they can't really protect it. But then it's a mystery why people of the various categories, especially left groups, get involved in this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u20	President. It has been reported that in October 2015, the first auction for these assets has been made, but this has been a significant delay in 2016. I wonder, and what. A senator may be able to remember me as to whether I recall correctly, that there was considerable opposition in the administrative system to take the route, i.e. for the disposal of the capitals, the use of bats and carrots, or what name we give it. That there was some opposition within the system to going that way. Could it be that men are just not careful now, that those who want things to go on with foreign sources are now getting their own way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u21	President. I'm going to answer this inquiry by quoting a journalist, Hörður Ægisson, quoted today in the final series from the article he wrote under the title "The Final Box, " and published when it was due to go to these invitations and complete these tasks. He says, with President's permission: As with the demands of the old banks, the owners of an Off-country must look to no improved foreign status of the population in any way in order to escape from the seas. Instead, the good situation that has developed for the sake of a continuing major business investment during the past few years will be new to meet hundreds of billions of dollars of accumulated foreign investments in Icelandic pensions and businesses. To ensure such conclusions in this next major U.S. dropoff step, it is necessary to rely on solid political leadership rather than on the prevailing judgment of officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for his excellent speech. The senator was told of the reversal that even took place. in his time in this case, on emissions of capital syrup. We have here the document that at that time was working and then disappeared in part, or in the summer of 2016. We'll talk about this at the end of the night. We've been one ship of our own, and they've talked about government opposition one and two positions of government. At the time, because Icesave has also been mentioned, when there was a lot of news and a lot of discussions here at the council, the government's stand together, if I remember correctly. To say that, I'd like to ask the senator, because he mentioned pride and discouragement: Have you had a reason? A senator who feels similar in this case, although it may not be the same size as the Icesave case, i.e. that governments do not stand up and may not want to understand the matter or at least not explain it to us? Does the senator feel that this reflects a little bit of the present - day trend?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u23	President. I have to admit, there's something else that reminds me of that time and fight. It may not be for good reason that some speakers today have put this into context, for you certainly have to deal with some of the old traits of that stroke; things such as the idea that there is no too much to stand on, that a person must give in order only to buy some kind of kindness in some undefined phenomenon sometimes called the international financial system. In the struggle with Icesave, we were not merely put forward but strongly claimed the theory that we would enjoy greater respect and respect if we were to give our rights. Of course, it was clear to everyone that it was a total loss. Of course, respect for markets is enjoyed if they stand by their laws and regulations. It's not possible to get people to invest, e.g. In Iceland, whether then or now, to be self-indulgent, and to think that, for the sake of prizes, people will invest in Iceland, like to thank for their permissiveness. What a misreading of how people make decisions in this international financial system! It is primarily about how far humans can reach the maximum benefit. Investors do not attack investments on the grounds that they are responsible for giving in to them unsubstantiated demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Perhaps at that time, when the fall had passed, and the nation may not have recovered from what was going on in 2008, the confidence may not have been that much. But you should think that in the situation of society today and the economic situation that we would rather be on our feet in such cases, but that does not seem to be on the table at all. So I'm just gonna thank you for your talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u25	President. Yes, it would certainly be wish for humans to learn more from experience. And because of what? In contrast with permissiveness in the former big interests of the nation, a senator actually extended this comparison to the rockstones. You are surprised to observe the situation in Britain in which you see things like yourself here, where there are locals not at all who are undermined by their own national standing because their goal is in any way to please the European Union or to keep the public in Britain from wanting to walk out from there, to succeed, and thus having a huge contract position in their own country. Of course, such things must be avoided by all means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u26	V.E.G. President. Yes, we still discuss a bill to correct a change in the handling of crowns that depend on the specific restrictions and currency laws (required and related to capital flows). Similarly, we will discuss what was recommended today by committees. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee. A significant point has been discussed in this regard, that we do not have much explanation for the situation. It has been published, as the review puts it, by permission of a president: A review to the Committee highlights the importance of the submission of the bill before the date of the pay date for a certain rate of the Reichletter. Otherwise, the amount of available property will increase by nearly 70% or by about 25 billion dollars. When you read this, you think, " Is this what it is? Then we'll probably have to take action. But we doubt, and we want to have more discussion and further explanation as to whether this is so simple. Men who have been in Congress longer than I have, and who are far more aware of this, are concerned that this matter is so simple and that we do not stand up for the money owners they owe. It has also been observed that these members refused to participate in the invitation of the Federal Bank in their time, but these funds have been offered at the cost of the gangs, as presented here. That's pretty good work. When the emissions of a budget were approved in 2014 and 2015, it was said that capital owners paid for the State, but this is not done. As has been stated so many times, U-waves were taken into this case during the summer of 2016 after a change to the government that was then present. It has also been observed in speeches today that in the 2016 campaign - it was chosen there in the fall, in September or October - the capital owners, or those in this fund, would have been in a sort of campaign. It was noted that they had used software to advertise propaganda in a campaign for the 2016 General election. When you hear these things and you don't really want to believe it. But if you do, it's a pretty bad story and a bad game. That capitalism is part of election propaganda. There are other talks that you would like to discuss. We have called upon other groups of government opposition to come in here and discuss these matters as well. You've heard a little bit about at the Generals' tunnel today from the government officials that we're just stalling the case, which we're naturally doing. When we have asked why they are involved in this with us, they do not want to extend the matter. However, as mentioned earlier, it would likely have been reduced if the entire body of Congress had participated in the discussion and we had managed to get farther with it instead of standing in these tire tracks here, one category in this discussion. Is it rather unfortunate to have to do so? But we insist on finding the right answers, we can make an informed decision so that you can vote for such a big matter from the heart, whether you press red, green, or yellow. It has often been observed, and I came into my speech today, that there are times when we generals are becoming a plunger pad. Many times you feel that way, e.g. When we handle cases like the EES embassies and other things, which often come 15 minutes before the end of the council and are often done in other places, and then we are required to vote for them. Often you don't know what's behind it. There have also been cases where the council has approved something that is not for the benefit of the nation. I remember, for example. depending on what happened with a pro driver. It was a training course for a pro driver, five courses that cost 100,000 dollars. and if they didn't take that course, they'd lose their job card. There was a lot of fuss around it. These laws are in effect today, but they are being tried to adapt these classes of Icelandic. It was this way, and it stood in one place, that this was not relevant to an island but only in countries where bordering is passed, where cars drive between borders. In 2015, however, it somehow reached here, and after many years, it was taken care of at the council. I'm quite sure--good if I wasn't here at the council and voted on this--that men had nothing to do with what they were voting about. Speaking of informed decisions, this is a parable. People have been quoting articles in which a news - class Ægisson named Hordúgisson has been explaining matters and warning of decisions to take. I haven't gone through a lot of them, but some. Clearly, there's a writer who knows what he's saying, and I'm going to learn more about it. Finally, I would like to say that I miss the fact that only we in the Central Party have spoken. This is a matter of discussion. This is a big deal. We're talking billions of dollars. We want more information before we take this matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u27	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As noted by the senator, here we have a series of specific questions that have not been answered and can we ask ourselves, " Is there usually any answer to these questions? ' It is interesting, however, that follows why so little is the subject of Congress. You wonder, " Is it just some kind of a way of bringing these collapses to the fore or something? ' Hv. A senator is accustomed to dealing with uncertainty. So I'd like to ask the senator if it's not customary for anyone to row to sea, try to eliminate any uncertainty before they leave, try to know what lies ahead, look at the weather forecast, make sure the boat is okay, the fishing opportunities and all of this, the humanity is fine and happy and ready. I ask this because it seems to me that in this matter there is considerable uncertainty. Questions that are relevant to us have been raised here but not answered. It is clear, however, that questions need to be answered, and guests will, of course, need to answer when the committee meets to review the matter and to try to find answers to the questions we have raised. I'd like to ask the senator if it's normal to calm down the notes here that are being calmed down without really knowing or realizing what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. After all, it is with the blessed seaman that you have to set sails along the wind. But there's one thing I've learned over the years, that although you often feel that fishing is bad, even if it's quite acceptable, then it's practice and the saying that fish are at ease. I'm not sure, if we continue with this illustration, that we are calming down on a verdant ticket in this respect, I'm afraid it's a great man, and risking damage to the fishing system. When you attack a ship that is more than two or three or four, I've been on fishing boats where there are even 20 men, you don't usually do that but take a position with the captain you trust in. He does not necessarily have to be extremely large, largely fishing well and making wise decisions. From that illustration, I don't feel that we are making the right decisions on this matter. I guess you could say that the captain of this bar isn't the captain I'd hire.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u29	President. Of course, the illustration of seary is a little fun in this regard so that it is based on man's using the best information when making decisions about whether to start off or to wait for the weather or to have little hope of gain. The reason for this illustration is really the situation in which we are in, that we do not have my information that we would like to have in front of us in order to really be able to determine if we should accept this matter or oppose it or sit around or what humans will do in the end. It has not been answered, for this has been spoken for 13, 14 minutes, has been mentioned by someone, on the part of those who bear the case. It remains that we are little closer, a respectable president. So I ask why. A senator whether it is only natural to move forward and wait and see if we are not able to answer the questions we have asked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u30	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree with the senator and thank him for this answer. You want more information before making a decision. This was mentioned earlier in a talk. paritaprevir The Sigmunds of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnul, hardly expressed the pride of the discussions in this matter until we adopted the matter today as a member of our council, the Central Party. The amount of time the discussion had received was small in minutes. There would be little pride, perhaps a lack of taste or a molar over the fact that this would be a shorter baptism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent talk, Páll, the son of Jónsson, Sigurður a wonderful victory. I know why. In the season of 2013, a senator was a great substitute, the first guardian for four members and then a minister. Will he remember as much of a matter in his campaign for interest as much of a conversation in a council hall as this? In this case, we are talking about a seven - minute talk from the highest. Secretary of finance and six minutes' speech. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, prominent member of the Committee. There is no need for us to call for superiors in our discussion today. I don't remember calling as often as I'm concerned. Mano. A senator after a similar refusal to express himself on a bill, whether from the time he entered as the nobility at the end of 2017 or from the past, knowing that he was regularly inside a period of heavy importance and many major matters were being discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u32	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. To answer that question, I do not remind myself that there was a big issue that the government then did not take part in. There was something about filament, and there was something like that from the government in my affairs, as it goes. I remember, for example. by a speech that was highly discussed and called the case of debt. There, the government of that time played a major role in explaining the reasons for the case, but much was turned out of that particular position of government and difficulty in possessing it. Somehow you thought it was very unfair, for the case was very large, and then the government was deeply involved in the discussion to explain it to the government, which was rather reluctant to understand the matter. I'm sure that if we could get executives here and those who have recommended this case to explain some questions we've wondered about today and tonight it would shed light on what we're throwing between us. But, no, I don't remember a bigger case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u33	A respectable president. Now we've got three members in the conference hall. It will be interesting to see if they may not put themselves on the rosary, at least the last person who came in, though I have become out of hope. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé puts himself on the rosary. I've asked him so many questions. How about that? paritaprevir The Sigurður for Páll Jónsson and his speech earlier is, of course, a point he makes in the context that he does not consider the governments to see a country in the way they want to reason the whole matter - how so? A senator getting used to that stuff? Is the evidence for the subject, or is it just a matter of surprised by the fact that the discussion was just as great as it has been today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u34	V.E.G. President. Since the senator mentioned this, I have asked a few times before, and even did in my speech earlier, about what is stated in the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee, that if the bill is not approved by February 26, it will increase by another extent in non-profit funds of almost 70% or about 25 billion dollars. That's a pretty big question. It's kind of a basic question in my mind, and I don't have much to do with it all. But 25 billion is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's victory over the talk he gave earlier. There are people, both in the house and outside, who consider the discussion that has been conducted here today and tonight as a talker. It surprises me completely because we're here to shed light on the fact that we don't take matters that concern the whole nation, and about 84 billion, and we throw it through the council in three hours and 15 minutes. We won't. We will discuss these matters, and we will consider a decision, and we will try to understand the reasons for the situation. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is as dark in the dark as I am about what it is to classify himself in the common and collective, with all and equal trust, to present a bill that is expected to be passed through the General Assembly in three hours and 15 minutes, and, in fact, to put the interests of hedges ahead of the public's interests. I also ask because the money involved in this equation, and we believe that missing ones in this equation could best benefit from those who are in front of their feet, who feel that the same sort of people think they are and that they are fighting for. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Understands him as little as I do, i.e. that people who teach themselves in socialism, equality, and the struggle for the unfortunate should trust to present themselves with such a case as these and expect us to take care of it in three hours and 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this answer. No, I don't think that we're in the middle of a filibuster because it's often said that a discrepancy is when groups are trying to get a contract. [[For example, you said that earlier, didn't you?]] No, we're not stalling, we need information on what this is about, why this is not better explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u37	Read a report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u38	[[Up front.]] It's getting a sleeper into someone who's coming here right now, and maybe they're putting themselves on the roster and they can explain it to us. I don't think there's any basis for me to laugh with regret at these questions we've had. It's a serious matter. I just have to confess, because I'm in so much darkness as a dog. forethought about why people do not care better than is the fact of this matter, so they are clear that they have participated in the discussion. The senator refers to socialism groups and classes of the common people. It is a mystery to me why they will not be any more involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think he's as bright now as he's been when two members of the council have spoken, even though he's on the front call. This will give them the courage to take full part in this discussion and try to explain to us what is involved in this matter that will pass through in three hours and 15 minutes, matters that may concern the whole nation, and where the people may be short of one twenty - three billion, they will receive what they deserve for the valuables being given. That's why I want to ask that question. The senator, whether the presence of these two gentlemen, our colleague here in the hall, gives him the hope that, like me, they will now take their steps and put themselves on the rosary and tell us what we are doing wrong in our case and lead us on the right path. Hope so. A senator like me to make this happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u40	President. Yeah, I just have to let myself get a little bit optimistic. There are three members of the board in the hall, and I've never been bored at night. I can stay up all night for an explanation. Back in the day when you were young and well, it wasn't a big deal to stay awake one wintertime. One night is not crucial if this matter can be brought to light and I expect us to continue until the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u41	Mr. President. Here earlier in these discussions, I quoted a comment as a Icelandic lawyer and then a interests officer of the EU hedge fund in 2016. The Finicial Times reported that the hope of the money fund owned by an amputee was that the release of these crowns could not have been made into a new government provided that Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson was not a part of a new government. This interview showed again and again what foreign money owners had on society and how they feared the determination of the prime minister and his government. Another thing will be said about the service of the left government to the hedge fund, which then grew like a piece of purple on the fish farm of an Icelandic household's misfortune. There was no resistance to the party when Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, then a senator, came up with his ideas for taking charge of the hedge fund. Recall that all political groups of the country considered them delirium's ideas and then wanted all Lilja's decisions. The government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, made an outstanding solution to the hard and large language of the bank's demandsors. Clear goals were set, highly confirmed, and ignored. As a result, the demands of the crew paid large sums of money to approach their foreign possessions. They even did. You can get the Bank of Iceland's State, so you can call it. I think, in time, the government's actions of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunalson will be viewed as one of the most successful measures in Icelandic political and economic history. Still, we need to remember why governments were so hard on the demands. This is very important, especially in our discussion today. It simply did not come up with an Icelandic economy to let them with domestic property from abroad, the payment price would have ended up in the millions, and the dollar would likely collapse again. Now we're faced with the uncertainty of the impact of this bill, if it becomes a law, will come to bear on the crown's gangs. This is a very important question that we have discussed, but it is necessary to get answers from the Committee that will be called to the Committee's Experts, economics and currency experts, who will be able to give a clear answer to the question how the bill will affect the status of the Crown by law. Inconsistencies are presented in the bill on whether or not it is thought to be involved. I don't think there's any logical support behind the statement in the bill's paper that if the bill, if the law, doesn't make any impression on the state funds. That's what I think is a very big, big statement without actually any logical support. We will see that there will be a change in the crew of the crown, and then it will affect the state fund. It's, for example. this is not taken into account in the risk assessment of budgeting. I believe it is very important, Mr. President, that it will be on the behalf of the Committee what could be the effect on the crew of the kroner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's interesting to hear the senator's review of an interview or writing in the French Times, I think he said, he corrected me with that, on the fact that certain politicians, in this case, former prime minister, why. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was a dilemma when these hedge funds and money owners wanted their money. But I've been quite familiar with having been asked by the representatives of these parties, and I guess a lot of senators have been involved in it, how this paradox was, how they didn't want to negotiate, didn't want to finish the case, and what was needed, whether their ideas were useless, etc. It was all just about, and of course, it's still about, defending Icelandic interests. Hv. A senator here cites an effect on the crew of the kroner, which will carry out the bill. It's interesting that an attempt is not made to address it, either in the committee opinion or in the bill, if I recall correctly. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator's evaluation of the consequences or effects may not be fully valid - this may have a bearing on the crew of the kroner and, of course, the plans in the financial program that are valid today and will be expected to appear in a new financial program over the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question, and it's very important. I think this is a fundamental premise for making decisions on this matter, that there is absolutely a question about how this will affect the economy. We are, as we know, walking into a down cycle. There's uncertainty about the economy, bullies contracts are available. We've been cut off, and it's headed for a strike. If the fall, loans, mortgages, and other loans go up, and inflation begins, we will see the seriousness of the problem. Making this matter right at this point makes me feel quite different because there's so much uncertainty. And it also claims in a paper with the bill that this will not be an option for any impact on the client's position. We're talking about 84 billion that are supposed to go out of here into foreign currency. I think everyone sees that it's gonna happen to make a difference. It is said that the harbor bank is going to take action in this regard to protect the dollar, which costs a lot of money. In the end, it is the public of the country that comes to pay it. From my point of view, it is absolutely necessary that we get this clear and that before the committee there are experts who can answer that question. It's very strange that there's no logic in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u44	President. I thank the senator for the answer. I wondered if it's a sign of speed that seems to be in the case, careless, irresponsible, not to offer any evaluation of the impact, which is the driving force. A senator mentioned here, the crew of the crown. If we believe that this can have negative effects. A member of the body says, "Is there any reason to inform or at least review the case with the labour market partners to help them understand the potential consequences of the worst scene that can be realized? " Of course, certain images are missing as to how this can affect us. That is why I wonder at what. A senator, first of all, is it irresponsible not to examine this and whether there is reason to inform the labour market partners on the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what. Senator, I think there's good reason to make the labour markets, the labor movement, to realize that this could happen to this bill, which has got far too little attention, to the law. Thus, a prominent speaker, who had finished his talk, was in sneaked in here. As I traced this point, this will be able to significantly alter the situation if inflation takes place, the crews fall, food supplies and other factors are rising in price, loans, etc. Yes, it is, in a sense, saying that there is a certain carelessness in a course that you do not fully understand. Why is this process being brought in at this rate and then unable to reason on such fundamental questions and answer them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u46	President. Before answering, I'd like to call the president's attention to the fact that it seems that he has failed to register me with a rosary, as I requested here at the end of my final talk. That caught my attention in the first place. A senator spoke about the experiments of foreign hedge funds or their representatives in order to influence elections in Iceland. Hv. A senator reminded me of things that, of course, are very striking when you go to this review and put everything in the context that we have now been through the past. I know why. A senator is very knowledgeable in international politics, and he is well aware of it, to form in the United States. There has now been a great crisis and a lot of research based on theories that some Russian men on Facebook have tried to influence the outcome of the election in the United States. Of course, it seems who does. However, one agrees that it is very serious if it is tried to influence the outcome of elections by representatives even of other countries. What, then, can be said of the public act of insolence? Wouldn't have been normal, considering why. To investigate this, and even to the fact that this investigation had involved more than the advertisement, to what was on the surface? If the Internet is being used in many places in an effort to influence elections, would it not also have been valid, and may still be, trying to investigate this opportunity to influence elections in Iceland, especially in view of what has happened or came to light later? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I wholeheartedly agree with him that these advertisements and this attempt to influence the outcome of an election in Iceland are unique. The insolence is complete because, like a whale, it is. A senator mentioned that, if that is the way it can be said, in such countries as Russia, who have tried to influence elections in foreign countries - it's a fact, and they've been investigated - trying to hide the trail. Russians, still today, absolutely refuse to interfere with elections, e.g. correspondent in Finland, the Netherlands, Germany, the United States, and elsewhere. Here we are faced with an effort to influence the outcome of elections in Iceland in an almost public sense. I couldn't agree more. A member of the council that certainly should have examined this matter. It got to my judgment all too little attention at this time, given the seriousness of it. It simply shows that these people, the hedge fund, the interestkeepers, were unable to deal with these and that they used methods to make Icelandic governments at this time suspicious. Of course, this was to be a case of firm determination and careful investigation because it had an impact, that is, absolutely clear. That's where the standard letters and misspelled, and I traced one of these parties to my first speech. Now we are confronted with the fact that these same parties are to be indulged. [[The president calls.]] I don't like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u48	President. Keep in mind that this is a defender or an attempt to achieve enormous interests and has proved ready to use various means, including Public propaganda in elections. Then it may not be farfetched that they have at the same time resorted to another form of subjugation or propaganda, e.g. On the Internet. Keep in mind that this happened after the big cases of the rover were solved so that it was about what we're talking about right now, the Off-counters. Remember, too, that what these parties were asking for, the new government, by changing approach, changed policy towards these parties, was fulfilled. They received new governments. They've got a new heading. They actually reached what they were trying to achieve by their propaganda.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. That's exactly what I'm saying. It worked. The worst part of all of this is that you are then to negotiate with these people. It's due. They are to enjoy a better dresser than those who shared in it and played along from the beginning with the government. Now, however, this person is really to be rewarded for acting like this. It started on the Internet like a dog. A senator mentioned, and there were records on the Twitter. This is exactly the same methodology that has been used in other countries, especially by Russians, Internet propaganda against established governments, trying to influence elections. That's exactly what happens here, except in Iceland, it all came out of the open. How did the government respond? Yes, the hedge fund and the winners survived because they had what they were going through, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I called attention to the amazing events of this case, which had a good start and then turned into wonderful things. There are considerable funds now, and the timing raises questions such as why such pressure seems to be driving the case through. We have repeatedly called for answers to various questions, and hopefully we can get answers at times. The Economic and Business Committee. I remind you that before Christmas, the case went through without us senators seeing the bill. I have one question that has not left me alone: What does the senator foresee if the bill is not accepted? It's been bothering me every once in a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't have much hope that the bill won't be accepted. We see that the administrative body intends to drive the case through, and, in the power of the greater part, they will no doubt be able to do so. I must say it is, of course, their responsibility to bring this matter into here. If the bill is legal, there is a significant risk that it can affect the state of the economy and the state of the juries, etc., which is then the responsibility of the government. I think I'll answer that question in a way that I think they'll be able to get the case through in the strength of the greater part. We've been trying to get all the information. No member of the board has ever wanted to enter the discussion. Either they are indifferent or are not interested in answering important questions. Interestingly, certain political groups are not interested in sharing in the discussion. I mention, for example. The union that, as I said earlier in a talk, has given way to being a special spokesman for the people of the country. The chairman of the United States has held large talks on the status of the juries and the way workers are treated in the country, but he is not interested in having a discussion on matters that can have a significant impact on the choice of the public in the country, that's just the way it is. This, of course, raises questions about the purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. If we assume that the bill will be approved, we can claim that we will be made of a considerable amount of money, because we will not allow ourselves to return to the opening area as I understand it. The question is, Is this going to affect it? We have also raised questions about how the matter could be affected. What does the senator think will happen? What effect will the bill have when it's approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to say, I'm really worried that the bill will have a negative effect on the gang, which will make all the resources more expensive in shopping and borrowing. It affects the index and inflation, because this is a significant amount of money. We are talking about 84 billion who are supposed to leave the country in the form of a currency, a foreign currency. Also, I have not received any solid evidence to explain why the Scrollman does not explain in his review of how the bill can be affected. Rather, it simply says that it does not work. [[The president calls.]] There's no lack of logic. There must be some scenarios in this subject, it should be significant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u54	A respectable president. Here in the side room and in the hall, while the speeches have been running, don't say it directly to a speaker at once but to us middle class people sitting here in the hall, that the answers to the questions we think we need to get answers to are just by reading the bill or by considering the committee. All I have to say is to my father's house that these two songs give us the information we've been calling for today. In the opening text itself, you will find a chapter in the report chapter 2, which contains the heading "What Is It? " It is in two historical ways through the trend in how the developer's claims were progressively ignored. There is one paragraph that can be applied to the fact that at some point something would be done in these areas. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ When the Croncies Treated by specific limits became valid, the restrictions required by the law were to be temporary and that governments would reduce them when circumstances permit. All right. It's just a normal text, and I don't make any comments to him. But that is all there is to bear on why this operation is going on. There is nothing about why it is necessary now. I especially want to draw attention to what is said here: ◯ And that governments would lift them off when circumstances permitted to allow them to do so. When we put this sentence block in context of the Council Bank's position, which appears in the account of the bank and is referred to in a committee program with a change of motion, where it is very obvious that everything will be in the hands of an army unless the matter is resolved and will be done in the early morning, as we have entered today into February 27. The late bank thought that if this case were not completed on February 25, it would be wise. There's nothing in the evidence, and there's nothing in these two talks, on the other hand, the highest level. Secretary of finance, on the other hand. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason moved--now I've read them both for a review--and there's nothing in the two cops here that explain why the asthma is so great now, with what reason men decide to bend away in a way that the surrender is complete. There's nothing really to put anything into our hands so that we can figure out why, on the other hand, we're here at two o'clock in the night, and we've been praying for it every hour since about 4:00 a.m. that some government officers come to our territory and go over these things with us. We get nothing more than some sort of mistake that we can just read the report by the bill or by the opinion of the committee. The answers to these questions are just nothing in these two cops. I don't feel sorry for the board to have anything to do with us here and these things. I am fully convinced that the members of the board of directors were long in attendance if their conscience was reasonable in this matter. So, of course, it is a capitalism that the four opposing parties make a complete contribution to this matter and that they have not allowed a single word to be said in either case. ... since no one said anything except the secretary of finance, or today, even though the matter has been discussed since about three o'clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u55	President. Hv. In his speeches, a senator has said that statistics ranging from 13.6, I think it was, or 13.7 billion to 23 billion, could be what the Icelandic state is going to be, in effect, by going this way, if I have understood why. A senator is correct. There is, however, a considerable amount of money that can be done for many things. I wonder what. A senator who has a lot of experience with contractors and other activities and is on an environment and transport committee and is chairman, although on temporary interruption from now on, can only set these amounts in context when it comes to a transport strategy. Of course, when we give up our money, we do not use them for projects that are necessary. For 13 or 23 billion, there is much you can do. Of course, it can be applied to anything, a nursing home, something like that. But from what the senator knows about them, I think of transportation. You're going a long way, 13 billion on transportation. There is at least one fine tunnel, perhaps two, if it is short and comfortable. It's probably the Smokey Way, just to put it in context of what the amount is if we allow ourselves to calculate the best possible outcome and then the outcome that's possibly in the pipes here. But once again we need answers to many of these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u56	A respectable president. Just a few words to frame these numbers. First, it's 23 billion, framed by 190 k. the euro, the reference set that was started at baseline compared to today's walk. However, on March 12, 2017, the lower limit is 16.4% of the losses taken by national owners at the 90 billion stats. For the amount of money in this range, 13.6◯23 billion, just to put it in perspective, if we look at the latter part of the transport process as presented and the budgets framed in the government budget, it is estimated to be 7.8 billion for new projects between 2022 and 2020. It's on sixteen billion, these two years in total. The lower limit covers all new projects in 2022 and 2023. The upper limit, 23 billion, is about Half in 2021 vs. V.E.G. The government thus considers it a major quest for transport through a temporary addition that provides the total budget of 15.5 billion for road work in 2019, 2020, and 2021. It is slightly above the lower limit, well within the limit, or 1.5 years of this huge campaign that is given the upper limit. In connection with transport, of course, these are huge numbers, absolutely huge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u57	President. I think there may be evidence that in any context, these numbers are huge. They are certainly in connection with transport projects and interesting tasks to connect these with the alleged major transport campaign, where the numbers are much like the lower targets. A senator mentioned. It is only natural, then, to wonder what evidence is there that we are going this way and giving in to these funds if we allow ourselves to calculate and talk like that. So, what are we getting in return? What are we getting instead of accepting this bill and letting it go through? I must admit that there is one of the questions that have been raised and that need to be answered: Why is this now being done? And what are we getting in return?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u58	A respectable president. I can honestly say that I cannot see the reasons for this conclusion. I'm sorry to see what it could be that we're getting in return from the agencies there that are shaped by Icelandic interests. It is not difficult to see that there is something available in that direction. In a case like this, it's just not acceptable for the government groups who hold the case and are responsible for it, the Supreme Independence Party. A minister who spoke to the case and then to the head of the committee, leave us who are left here completely out of the air with logical support and answers to: Why, why now, and why are we added? I can't see anything else in this situation, but allowing the Afghans to stay down for a while because obviously nothing happened when the Secret Bank ran out of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council was very impressed with the speech he gave here. I must admit that my mind looks back to 2013 when it stood here to make the same changes in the fishing industry that was made this fall. Then certain senators, particularly members of the left - green council, were eagerly speaking and shocked to give up money as a government fund. A few years later, these same people present a bill that seems to result in the Icelandic State, i.e. The nation, out of more than 13◯23 billion. Let's take. I wondered, " Why in the face of this tremendous change did happen in that group, because that is certainly what we are talking about to be protected. ' We're talking about some of the interests of survival, e.g. Enterprises in Iceland, these are interests that are primarily concerned that the Icelandic State or the nation receive more, which, in turn, accounts for the property they own or hold. So I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator is as understanding as I am about to show up after all these years and does not seem to have any interest in maximising the nation's interests and survival for this matter, but it seems to them that all these billions of people are going into the pocket of hedges instead of the state's funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u60	A respectable president. This action is, of course, a forced operation. In 2015, the operation was performed, and it was never any hideout. The table was placed on the table with the demands and deportors, and they were well aware of what was available in the fixed and final package laid for them. So the people who are now the owners of this 833/484 billion stand there are no Sunday school boys. They're just a bunch of wild bisques who have come to realize that they are so lucky that it seems here that it is in the power of a government, which, by its nature, is giving in force and is now in full surrender, completely complete, to the views that were turning toward the stability laws and stability agreements made. Whether the current government has had enough success of the plan, enough of it to bring it back to hundreds of billions in the end, that it's just been good... I don't feel that we politicians are in the position to push this operation away from the state box, for that is, of course, what's happening by rewarding the most aggressive members toward us, by not participating in the solution that was achieved better shape. They are now winning what I allow me to call a complete victory. That, of course, is unfashionable. I can't figure out what's underneath with our interests in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. There he moves exactly what is the matter, i.e. that, for a time, the hedge fund sensed that the tapes have been replaced in governments and the previous determination not to compromise the existing demands has gone out into the wind. I'm also worried about that, Mr. President, and I wondered at what. A senator. Now, a group of nine have held up in our discussions today and evening on this matter in order to obtain a better solution or some evidence that a better solution is possible than 54 members of Parliament do not. There may be a sign of caution in the future. If we are faced with difficult opposition or difficult circumstances, it may be that only nine of us are to trust here at the council. [[The president calls.]] That's a serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u62	A respectable president. I brought it here earlier this day that what may cost us most in the long run will not be the billions now, which will not be brought up, considering that the forced action of the demanding sea and deportors, will be carried out by the majority, except for the small group that remains, but will be the message we send from the government, that it will pay for us to stay and take the fight against these Icelanders. It's just that those who took the hard part and were the most reluctant in a game eventually got the best results. There is a message that can be very expensive for the future, and that's really what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u63	President. I have to make a note that these 11 or 13 billion are still getting in our way and reminding us that the criteria are about 190 k. on the euro was to be the best possible price for those who worked best, i.e. If, at the beginning, we agreed to participate, enough, then at best they could get the price of 190. It's kind of superus in aiming at 190 when dealing with the skunks, the ones sitting in the middle. It might be more natural, then, to have this 200 bucks, the amount of money the government is selling itself, so I now witness in the mouth of the left green, considerably more than 23 billion, never less than that in this comparison. And I remind you, when this 190 bucks. A standard came to be a prize for those who would be comfortable, when the crown's gang was even weaker than it is today. But I would also feel right, because people have been putting things in line with the costs of the country, the costs of the State's projects, also taking into account that, in this case, they are giving it all out of the country to foreign currency people who take it out of the country. Investment within the country of the State, however, is reversible in the form of taxes, in the form of economic activities, etc. I feel there's a comparison need to be made, too. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that? One is a large amount taken out of the country and you can't see any more, the same is if you put it in place at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u64	A respectable president. Of course, this is exactly the case. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. If we take back the example given here on the amount of transport money this could produce, of course, there are investments in the global network of projects for contractors, inputs, and various tax revenues obtained from these sources, except for all the advantages involved in getting a better transport system, improving flows, and security. Let me say that there is heaven and sea between comparing the amount of money that leaves the country, compared to the same amount that goes into an investment within the country. There are two distinct equations. But this is a good point as hell. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson came in. Of course, I've been too small on looking up at this figure of 13.6 billion, which is calculated from the deaths of the crown owners, when they'd made up the Secret Bank. But I felt that I had to make some number to make floors in the conversation we had here and 190 k. were, of course, thinking of the best outcome for those who played cards. On November 1, 2016, this trade is being held at 220k. There are 15 billion people who go through the system like this. We are fully informed that figures far less disturbing for the citizens of the country than $190. The criteria have been a real - life experience, and this is true in the sum of the totals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u65	President. Let's just say that the government had given up, not entirely given up, but accepted 190 bucks. I'm gonna pray. One senator wondered: " What if we look at the overall impact of the State and the community and the 23 billion, in connection with discussion of collective agreements and the great requirement for social housing to be increased? What, then, would it be possible to build up social apartments for this amount? Taking into account that this continues in the system and returns in the form of taxes and can be used forward. I've seen plans for this to be 500 to 1,000 apartments. What would that be? A senator shoots to put this into context other than the language we discussed, or were we discussed earlier? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u66	A respectable president. Totally irresponsible, but I'd still let myself shoot at 800 apartments, plus/minus, that could be removed from that room that's left behind, so to speak. The 23 billion we'll talk about from 190 bucks. The score line is just the rest of it. There are no old numbers in it. It's just the amount, so to speak, still in the system. These 23 billion are the amount of what remains. I would think it would be the value of 800 apartments, which are being dematched from what had been set up and presented to the Off-counters as final conclusions. And we still have those weapons to force the conclusion. [[The president calls.]] We haven't given any of them away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u67	Madam President. I want to be a subject of talk and to follow along in any case. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason earlier. Actually, I was going to ask you what. In answer to this, a senator refused to do so. When we were wondering why people would give up the nation 23 billion dollars. Roll over. So a senator would say that men were merely satisfied, as he put it. I began to think back a few years, to the time when stability conditions were introduced. At that time, the bulge out of each one of the kids stood up to the point that setting the stability conditions above a stable tax would reduce the results of the broken farms by several hundred billion dollars. This lie just stood out of this cleat, about this. Half a council. Men kept getting excited, and the number increased as more people spoke. It was between 100 and 3,500 billion, depending on what they said. Then, when people get to the point of working out what they did, the organization and plan worked perfectly - and when people notice that all of this has worked so well, they may feel that there is no one who is going to fight in the slaughter season, 23 billion years, i.e. When people had experienced the results that were achieved by the stability conditions set at the time and that have likely produced the national set of around 700,900 billion dollars, do I guess, all in all? In itself, things have not been seen yet. As they know, when these conditions were established and they still don't know what to do with their country, Iceland was able to find their way. Speaking of surrendering income and property then, the government that is now very far off went by saying no thank you for taking over Anion's bank. Men spoke here on a cross last year, as many recall, of either the premarital rights of the State or not. Most of the time, they claimed that he was no one. Then, in the news, the government made a formal surrender of the premarital rights of this bank. What has happened since then? What has happened since then is that in less than a year those who have acquired Arion banks, hedge funds, have paid off 20 billion for money. They now have the largest single property of the bank in a trade process and will likely profit by 50 billion on the sale of that property, the part of Valitor. Of the 1,230 billion in this transfer, 70 billion people in one year are likely back into what they were looking for. Then you begin to ask: " Is it so cruel to give up money, to give up the property of a state fund? That was so, but there is no basis for doing so right now. There is no need for us to yield to the 23 billion that we have claimed to be built into the 84 billion remaining levels, perhaps the last bite of this cookie. People say, "These fine hedge funds, our good friends, who have owned crowns here, and who have hung like dogs on redness from 2008 on those property shares, may take this money out at the same price as a person traveling abroad. " This is incredible, Madam President. It's so amazing that this is now taking place on the watch of those people who cried out most of the time here a few years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u68	Madam President. Hv. A senator only lit me when he mentioned the Arion Bank case. In fact, I had planned to discuss it in a speech later this night, but first I'm going to give a speech about the currency pay and then another about it when the left administration, and maybe especially the left green, gave Arion a bank and an Iceland bank the first time, and then I turn to Arion's bank. But first, what? I can't afford to come up here just for a little while and think a little bit about it. I may have been or wasn't in the mood for many times. A senator to say that these are about matters that are clearly related but also about many similarities in the way the government, the people involved, responds to it, how it puts things out? They endured that long and became irritated when the State's premium was identified. I feel the same reaction now. You don't want to talk about it. Here comes the secretary of finance, talks for over six minutes and runs out. Then comes the chairman of the Committee and produces a committee party, and he is running out. No one is trying to reason with the matter. No one is trying to talk about it. I think these same people have acted exactly the same way to our attempts to point out their failures to Aion banks, which, of course, is part of the same U-turn that the government took from the Grand Plan of 2015, a plan that was working perfectly. In these two main areas, there will be a complete U-indulge and a very similar reaction. I started to think about it when it happened. A senator mentioned this. Am I reminded that these two can be compared in response to the government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u69	Madam President. Yeah, I think we're gonna do it. A senator may have hit his head just as he is tamed. In one case after another, we see this old subjugation against a foreign power that was crystalting in the past century. We see him walking again, and perhaps because of the fact that the left greens, which were now a single member of the foreign population, out of the turn of the century, out of 2009 or around, went as far as they were walking here in the 13th century to try to place the people in foreign possession, have received a dance partner who is as weak and is as weak to the knee as they are. This dance of these bicycle-directed partners costs the nation 23 billion, that we think, in this condition. Except for what I traced back here with Arion the bank. Yes, I have to say, it's some kind of pattern that seems to be with these categories. It is as if they are afraid of foreigners, afraid to speak with them, and dare not resort to murder against them. Of course, what we've been doing here in speeches today and tonight is that we don't expect good, Icelanders, if this continues to be the concert in dealing with foreign forces. Though this matter is large and urgent, in the near future we will face many challenges. Guð will help us all if we do so now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u70	President. You wonder, when you look at these issues two very closely related matters, the Anion Bank, and then this Afghan peninsula, whether the government is in charge of the notes, whether they know what they're doing, or whether they're getting fed, they don't know what they're doing. If you want to write for yourself a bill of primes, just sneak into the chamber to read the bill and then sneak into the chamber to read the committee opinion, you can't play to defend your stand because they don't know exactly what it's based on. Is it possible that this is the result of government control over these matters? That they do research and explanations, but when called on by what is included in the explanation, there will be few answers and people will be hidden around the house, with little courage to look into the hall - and absolutely no part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u71	Madam President. Yes, this is quite accurate because it seems that the current government has extended financial policies. We know what's in here at the last two budgets, i.e. 2018 and 2018, nothing more than government funds. We remember that in the 2019 budget, which was a bit awkward, the budget was torn by a trust board, sent up to Arnarhuv, and returned all beaten and crippled. It would have no man with a political bone in his nose, thinking of presenting the financial bill that came out of it because it was so completely destroyed by politics. It was usually merely made up of government officials, and it seems that this government is somewhat accustomed to providing problems that it cannot handle for anonymous officials who do not have to be responsible for anything, at all, do not have to go into court every four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u72	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We discussed the last month about the White Book, which was supposed to be a vision of the government, for the financial system. Now I have to say, I never saw the vision of the future. The book is that I only know a collection of all kinds of ideas rather than a vision. The White Book states that selling a total of 82% of the State's ownership in banks is recommended. That means selling about half of the nation's entire banking system. Let us not forget that this two banks' money is about 400 billion, as I recall. The need for a foreign bank has also been discussed. I'm all in favor of it, and I think it's important to increase the competition in the financial sector. I think it would be good only for the Icelandic banking system if we had a powerful foreign bank. But for this to happen, I expect a change of order is needed, and I'm trying to encourage some foreign bank to come in here. It makes you wonder, and it would be nice to hear thoughts at once. Regarding that, the senator's indifference to the government in this matter; all requirements are relax, etc. What is the effect? A senator saying that a foreign bank might come into the country because they cannot trust in the orderliness?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u73	Madam President. So I'll tell you what. A senator I think a foreign bank can gladly walk here because he can trust that a government that constantly hangs for foreigners will provide such banks with very good conditions. That's for sure. However, there is another concern. One of the country's major labor leaders went through a meeting with the government the other day. If I've understood him correctly, at that meeting men offered unscrupulous tax proposals, the two thousand men, but remembered, for example. not to remove insurance insurance or to take the mortgage team out of the index or to reduce interest, unless, in that respect, if I have correctly understood that the government had in mind looking to foreign experts to see if they could lay off insurance insurance in Iceland. I haven't talked to the person yet, but I intend to do so, to get it straight and ask him if it could really be that the Iceland government is so sick that it can't even follow the committee decision set up at the last council, the last fall, when they fought to accept the bill of our Middle Class to take the mortgage out of an indicator number. Instead, there was a journey with some very holes in the Senate resolutions made from the forwarding party, which was open to both ends and inexplicably blurred. It was supposed to be on December 1, January 1 and February 1, but it has not yet been seen. It may be that birth is so difficult. If it is true that this committee is now due to reimburse the project, and this time it is to an alien resident, most of the shelter is dumped, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u74	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator has been shaken and taken by surprise to collect information on the sale of the apartment loan fund on the property of the fund. As his conduct in this matter is worthy of great appreciation, it is vital that we find information about who purchased these hundreds of assets. Thank you. A senator who has taken the lead in this matter was a surprise. We're still waiting for this information, as we know. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator whether he does not consider it necessary to know who is behind the 84 billion whom we are talking about. Is that not what we need to know? It may affect the whole matter to see if there are any persons who have more important interests and who have waited a long time for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u75	Madam President. Yeah, you're right about what you're doing. Senator. Of course, it is for the best of all to have a clear state in these matters, and that is why it will come, for example. I'm surprised that the Piratars did not speak up on the discussion that this nation's population is loading up to 33 billion dollars. or about. Pirates who want to have a clear view of all things, as everybody knows, have no interest in this matter. We've done quite a good research on the collapse. But there's been a lot less, and we don't even know what happened in Iceland after a crash. An attempt has been made to do so. Some have been shoveled into boxes and locked for 100 years, as we know. It is vital that we open these books, and of course it is vital that we know who is behind this facial hedge fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There was some pleasant news coming up on the inside web earlier, there's gonna be hackbuff, and then there's gonna be luncheons tomorrow. Hv. A senator has discussed much about the interest of older citizens and how to improve them and has stressed that we put money in order to improve their interests, that older citizens and public employees can work longer, etc. The Senator has also spoken extensively about the construction of an apartment building. It was noted earlier that people were planning or wondering how many people could build, e.g. Unfavourable landlords for the amount of money that is being left behind. I wondered if it doesn't sound strange to the senator's ears, and he thinks it's strange that no one is here, either in the bill or in the commission, if I've read it all correctly, any information about what was the best possible outcome, and then the worst possible outcome. It is not even an attempt to shed light on it and to acknowledge that there is something left to give. Then the bill and the committee will not discuss the risks mentioned here. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me or if he disagrees with me, that this discussion is very important to further development, and that we receive members of the board or those who carry the bill to answer these questions, so that it can really be changed only in the discussion and that the answers are given and that we can continue to ask questions from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u77	Madam President. Now it's so, then. A senator, that it is not only the good news that we can have a hackbuff and spray after a discussion at lunch tomorrow, but that with each speech we deliver in this council hall tonight and until the night, that time was reduced to the highest. The minister of finance comes home from the great conservative festival he is out in the country today. So it could be so, if we succeed in discussing this matter in the skin of the flesh and in the full, to the highest degree. A minister comes to meet us when he returns from the great conservative festival abroad. It would be natural to get the highest power. Secretary of finance here in the hall for his vision of the case, which I assume was as much as the budget. I even built it. In that, if I recall correctly, the project with the bill shows that there will be no cost to the state fund, zero. We'd like to say it with a few rights, at least no one's been here to refute it. We've been waiting for about 12 hours for someone to come here to throw away what we're saying here. Telling us, "You're just crazy, and you don't know what you're saying." It would be easy for someone to come here and prove it to us, showing us that we are in the middle of the problem. No one's volunteered for that, not anyone. It seems that it is hard work to avoid accepting a discussion with this group. I don't know what it says to everyone else, but it tells me that if they don't have the guts to reason, come here and tell us, you're getting off track here and there. If you do not trust yourself to do so, the compromise is not very stable. So it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u78	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, you may be suspicious that the use of the painting is not particularly stable. In view of the fact that those who are responsible for this matter and want to drive it through, I think it is better to continue the discussion in the night with a group of senators, looking for answers to questions that are not really available. The answers aren't given. You have wondered, " Is this not a bit of a strange methodology when it might be possible to understand the matter by answering the questions presented here? ' If they were to respond and review them, they might be able to unite, and maybe we would just agree. But this cannot be done because no material discussion will take place. Those who are responsible for the case have been held two talks, very short.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u79	Madam President. It has been noted in our speech of the Middle Class that the group that no one chooses but all speeches, the public system, is constantly reaching for greater influence in what is being done. It seems in this subject, in this bill, that no politician has, at least with some political vision, come to the case. I say again: I'm afraid that if people don't trust them to come here, they'll have a word about it, and as I said earlier, just tell us straight that we're smoking, we're going to give them some evidence, and then they're going to have some reason to be true, there could be an end of this discussion. I say, however, I like the discussion, and I want it to go on, because although we're naturally looking for answers, we're also thinking about things that are very important to the people in the country to know. It is essential for the people of the land to know that the government is not interested in their interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u80	Madam President. I have briefly followed the retreat of the Federal Bank and other governments and have based it solely on the news releases of the Federal Bank. More about later on. Before I get to that, I'm going to discuss only the currency pay, which we can call, in fact, a different form of investment from the Federal Bank, which was part of an action established in the history of the left government, just to deal with what we are still discussing, the deportation wizard. There were many things without judgment. It was to give money to wealthy Icelanders who had money abroad in foreign currency, the opportunity to buy crowns here in Iceland, at considerable discounts, to take offhands, and to use for investments here. And who were the people selling those scraps? Of course, it was an amnesty owner, but it was through the Navy bank. In other words, the late bank allowed in some of the expansive customers from abroad who were allowed to buy a dollar at a discount, and at the same time the Offshore Owners who sold the Icelanders. One example is that a scientist in this town or his company bought 5,130 million. K. 240 p.m. Madam President. Let us now consider what we have discussed in the past. And other examples are listed here in the Marks, the magazine of the News magazine of July 19, 2017. In fact, the person I first mentioned, this company, bought at 9,267 million dollars. And here are a number of prices, 235 bucks. on the euro, 240K. on the euro, hardly 240 even and more prices purchased at the time by men. So they bought Icelandic crowns at discounts that allowed them to use here. And how did they use them? To buy companies, invest in competition with the other people who were here, and didn't have any coupons to compete for their competition. So that they could invest for the crowns they had bought on discount, enjoy the sold - out currency that started in many places, and enjoy the strength of the crown. In my government's time the whole plan, like I traced earlier, was crossed off, where things were being handled differently. They were to take firm hold of all of them and reach their final outcome, for everyone really needed to sit at the same table and should be able to trust that the State would fulfill its purpose and would not allow humans to escape. Instead, we will see that unlike those who participated in previous auctions or in this investment route of the Segressor Bank, they will only be released on a vastly inferior gang in many cases. But those who endured the longest and most opposed to playing in the 2015 project have the expected reward. Is that not what we mean when we talk about getting things done to make the market a success? Then these men will be happy and will be expected to become a major part of the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u81	President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the review on this investment route. I'd like to ask the senator to go further into this process, and, if he remembers, let us know how much money went through according to this method. I have a complete understanding of that if he doesn't have it on his own, but it's interesting and interesting to put it in the big context. Of course, this route has been criticized by many, especially by those who were in competitive business with the people who were able to take advantage of it, and as a result, there was a marked variation in the market, so to speak. But I want to pray. A senator is doing a little better over this investment route. Then there is the other. When we put things in perspective and reflect on what is happening now, we might ask, " Are we in some cases repeating the game again? ' We're dealing with the same parties in some way, that they are people who may have owned their possessions and have already used all the ways, but always take the best and are still at it. They're speculations. The answers may not be on the table any more than we others whom we have been asked to answer. However, it is interesting to continue the discussion of the discrimination taking place by means of the investment route.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u82	President. This is exactly what I quoted earlier in the preceding article that a total of 1,100 million were transferred to the country on the basis of the investment process - not dollars, but EUR - 1,100 million euros were brought to this country by means of this route and to be expected back to the deported investors who took them out money. Of course, this way was criticized for various reasons. As we discussed only earlier, or I was in my business, people with this definite advantage in corporate competition in investments and structure and such. It is not good when companies compete in the same area as others are financed by crowns purchased at discounts. But also financial gains in stocks and thus they were, in effect, buying crowns on discounts, doing them on high interests in Iceland, and benefiting from the development of the currency. In other words, there was a significant advantage for those who had been in the position of possessing foreign currency abroad. And they weren't just domestic parties. They also came into foreign communities through these same means, and they may imagine, or have thought about inflating the benefits later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u83	President. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, it is interesting to consider those members who made such practical use of the means that they are businessmen or people who had possessions abroad. It is interesting that this way was designed to allow them to bring this money home at a cost, as it were. However, I would like to ask the senator what the consequences were that certain people could get cheap money in this way to invest, buy a business, or go to some sort of business while others were at the same table, whether it was not that they were somewhat discriminating, at least at least indiscriminate in a market that was competitive at various business ventures in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u84	President. Yes, indeed, but these Icelanders were not, as stated in the preceding article, the target group of this method was originally defined, by Presidential permission: 'Environmentalists, who have plans for an investment in Icelandic commercial life, and who want to buy settlements to increase its interest, but the method was then used on a very large scale in a number of investments. Take, for example, an article that was growing in those days, travel service. What position are men in if they have to borrow, as expensive as it is in Iceland, to build hotels, but then compete with parties that build the same kind of hotels for crowns he was given to buy at discounts? It's very difficult to compete with that when the starting point of business is so different. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for his excellent speech. It is now beginning to be about 12 hours since the discussion began, and as so far as it has been, a total of six minutes of the 12 - hour elections have taken over. Before I go into the subject of my speech, I like to know. A senator, whether he remembers his career here in 2009, in close proximity to ten years, according to a similar case in which the government groups made such an odd occurrence sufficient for discussions of such a vast and important matter as here. It would be interesting to hear the senator's viewpoint on this matter. The second is what the senator entered in his speech, i.e. the advantages of investing in Iceland on the basis of the solutions that were formulated in 2009-2013, and, of course, the situation of many of them at that time was miserably mismanaged. The initial human administration with the rules that included turned to the discount of a crown's purchases surmounted back then, but, of course, they scrupleed the situation. Does the senator see the situation justified in taking similar action again? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u86	President. I'm gonna start with the second question. It was not for good reason that the operation was screwed, but unfortunately, it may have been a reflection of the fact that people were not thinking things whole. It was to be the primary option of the 2015 Action Programme, that it handled the whole case. And the greater sin, it is now that men are not going to finish the complete package, but they are going to disappear in such a decisive way. The question, then, is whether I will mention as little a matter as little a matter of discussion or an explanation on the part of a government or a government when it presents a major issue. No, I have to admit I don't remember. Of course, there have been controversial cases in which representatives of the government in general have not expressed themselves as much about matters as representatives of government opposition during discussions. However, there has been an understanding of the issues and an explanation for them and the political opposition that may have led to a so - called debate in an effort to develop a position toward government treaties or such. However, there is no explanation here. This is where we've heard, like what's happened. A senator mentioned, for example, six minutes of explanations that were actually in front of a magazine. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, was all he could do but read the Commission's opinion of the greater part of the Committee, had nothing to add, and no director and no member of the board has relied on him to come up here to defend the case. [[The president calls.]] Nobody.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's just this amazing situation that you are experiencing right now, that with some kind of damage, people have been told that they can just find answers to the questions we've asked for about 12 hours right now, on the bill or in the committee's list of more things. The answers just aren't in those two cops, and they're definitely not in the two speeches, which is the highest. On January 22, and on the other hand, the minister of finance moved. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason moved earlier today. The answers are neither the two talks nor the two references. Of course, it is just prerogative that the government groups do not have the courage to speak for it. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson: Can he remember something like that? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's embarrassing how these fine men and women act. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u88	President. No, nothing like this, for this is a very fundamental matter. This is the conclusion that the present government is going to get in the Offensive Psalms, a case that has been released for years and has been used in various ways, as if by other features of the release programs. However, that trend has been turned aside, and it is really a time to seal a complete postmortem to those who were least willing to participate in the release. [[The president calls.]] And they do not trust to come and explain why. They do not trust to defend it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. As we know, he has an accurate knowledge of this matter and experience in dealing with the hedge fund discussed here. Of course, that is a precious experience. I'd just like to introduce myself to the fact that when Iceland's National Bank was reported on March 12, 2017, it was also announced that African owners who had not made an agreement with the bank would be invited to make similar agreements. Then, on March 22, 2017, a headline appeared at the core: ◯ We are waiting for a more favorable gang to succeed. It's been quoted as "office owner." In the reactor, where looberg News is quoted, one of the largest owner of an African country says that by turning down the Bank of Iceland's Secrets to sell the euro for crowns at 137.5 per euro, they will be betting on getting more favorable successes when seas are fully lifted. I repeat what I said before, i.e. that they were told that if they had not made a deal with the bank, they would be invited to make similar agreements. In case of a moment. Because of his knowledge of the matter and his dealings with the hedge fund, a senator might intervene. Why does he believe that this transition took place, i.e. that it has failed to make similar agreements? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u90	President. I'll be doing this more closely in one of my second talks tonight, but I'm going to try to answer briefly to my questions. Senator. In fact, it is, in fact, recognized and even accepted in the form of a seizure. A senator read up here, that men simply considered what governments would not live up to what they had said, did not trust to finish the matter in the way they had preached, and as a result, it would be an option to wait simply to get out of the water at a more favorable turn. Hence, governments themselves make themselves available, even after they have arrived, as it were. A senator quotes from, down to 137.5 k, after being over 200 earlier. Then they realize: If they have gone this far down, won't we be able to get them down yet? After all, it had been the message of government; more and more retreat; and the motivation had become to just keep trying to work that way. Of course, in various ways they tried to put pressure on the government and threatened everything bad, even complaining to the EFTA Court. However, from there it was reported that governments as foretold were 2015 in full agreement with Iceland's rights. The table was mowed so far that it was not to be distracted. Still, the retreat continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A good answer from a senator. At the end, I would like to quote a sentence on page 15 brief. 5 of the report that says, on permission of the president: Thus, if an off-countee chooses to invest in the country, the financial aims of the influx of capital will remain in the domestic market and come to a country in the form of a new influx of foreign currency. First of all, I feel that this report is missing. What do they have in mind about being interested in investing in this country? There is no survey, and we have no information about it. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator: Does he believe that any interest is in these stakeholders investing over national heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u92	President. That's at least It's strange if they're simply going to trust in it, or hope, as the Scroll seems to describe in their remarks, that men who have been stuck here, locked in with their investment for 10 years, that the day they release, they say, "Well, we just want to stay here. If this is what people are going to rely on, just to trust that this will be the response of the individual person, then they are not ready for this release, then the situation will not allow. It's very interesting to wonder now, in view of the Armada's message that if this case should be agreed on by tomorrow, before it came back into the council - in view of its failure, it must not be concluded that the Secret Bank's message is not accepting the matter, at least. Wait with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u93	A respectable president. Now, I'm going to continue to review the story of this whole case, an African language. One thing is to do when you are trying to get answers or to realize what the picture is looking back. I'm going to do this now and again quote the newsletter, dated June 30, 2017, where Hörður Ægisson Hágsson, who has written about economic and financial matters, writes on the page. Hörður says, by permission of the president, and I remind you this is June 30th, 2017: During the past few months, the Icelandic government and the Councilman have repeatedly attacked to get the owners of a deportation, largely U.S. investment funds, to sell their capitals for discount price paid. All of these developments have been very different - and have undermined the credibility of the government. Some of the advantages of being made to an African owner have proved to be incontrovertible without any basis. Of course, it is of great interest when one of our main business journalists makes such clear that people are really trying to undermine credibility by leaving the approved policy and were quoted as saying that there would be no compromise, natural, because otherwise they would not have agreed on this course and policy. This shows that there were repeated attempts and efforts to negotiate. What is the motivation for doing such things when, in fact, humans have everything in their hands, they have complete control of the situation? So why do men go on the expedition and change over the middle of 2016, in June, something like that, and reach certain hills when this is written and it seems to continue with this matter that we are having here for tonight? As a result, you wonder: " Is it really possible to add two or two together and get the impression that this is just a normal continuation of what, for example? was about to happen when this fine journalist writes in the June 30 issue of News. That it's just a continuation, and people are trying to get as little time as possible in order to finish this whole thing. If it's about completing the case, it's a natural question. It was observed that these are about 3.1% of the total space in the area, which is when the water flows to the sea and apparently put on considerable effort to give these discounts. In hopes of what? What for? What, then, did men go on this mission? So we have not received any answers more than anything else that has been cast here tonight and tonight. Clearly, the answers humans have called for are not available. With permission of the president, this reporter continues: ▪ In the beginning of March, it was announced that funds that owned 90 billion dollars in the Off country had agreed to exchange them for euro at 137.5. Nine months earlier, the same funds had refused to participate in the Federal Pentateuch, where they had offered to sell their crowns at the walk of 190 for each euro, and instead chose to remain stuck with their money in interestless accounts for an indefinite period of time. The fund has made a fortune in making that decision. Exactly. It is a prize for those who would not participate in the process that the government started. The cunts are actually being rewarded for their persistence and cleverness by giving them an opportunity to gain more than others or to gain a better standing than others under their crown markets. This is very interesting, and it's very important to keep an eye on it. Of course it's registered here. This encourages that it is important for us to find answers to the questions we have been trying to call out for here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u94	President. This reversal is actually completely incomprehensible, and it really is a reversal. Not only are the programs that have been approved and established by the government but in many ways have been turned upside down by turning aside from the basic features of the finality I described here and going in return to some form of countersignment, in which governments are always giving more and more. In effect, they put themselves in a position to offer up to themselves. It is in the most remarkable way that cases evolved in this way. On the other hand, there had been expectations, such people, that better times, according to their interests, might be in line for a change of government. A new government, a new direction, is a policy that no board has ever trusted to explain, no one has trusted to tell us how it works to improve Iceland's interests. Why did the new policy lead to a major benefit for these foreign people, for these investors who had bought these discounts? Now the head is to be relieved of the one - sided ones who walked all the way out, and most of all would like to play. There's something missing in this picture, but it's hard to figure out when no board member is afraid to defend the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u95	President. That's a good question and a good question. Hv. A senator says that no manager is afraid to defend the case, but he is not even trying to sell it. It's not even trying to talk about being a clever subject, that this is necessary, or that it's something the whole body should take care of. It is quite remarkable, in fact, to see how these four left groups of the government stand, these four, have joined together to agree with the parties of the board to see that this is a good question. As noted in the way I read earlier, it is mentioned that one of the office directors of the Ministry of finance had a statement that might be expected to have a better frequency and better dresser for the others; that it was presented as some sort of office manager or to have some kind of expectation management. If this is true, it is absolutely crazy to think that the owners of the farms that have been waiting and waiting can no longer wait in hopes for a better time and to see that they can make even more money on these assets, which, of course, are revealed in this bill if that is as I understand it. Then their wish will be theirs, they're getting paid for their perseverance, they're getting paid to have been precipitous, and it's their responsibility to deviate from the course adopted by 2015. It is the responsibility of those who intend to agree on this matter to award this fund instead of obtaining and using more money, such as. to help with the labor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u96	President. You're right. A senator says, there is not even a attempt to sell the case, let alone defend it. In view of the views of the political parties, you cannot understand what they are about to do. As a matter of fact, I'm beginning to wonder if they have an idea of themselves. I have a feeling they're not involved in this matter, but somehow the government convened and experienced the matter, so I just want to see it run out as soon as possible. Of course, the left groups have specific and long history together in the pursuit of foreign claimors, foreign hedge fund, and foreign power. Maybe it's some kind of consequence of the old cohesion. That's at least It's not good to know, as long as none of them dare to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u97	President. Of course, we cannot find out what the individual senators'position is or whether they can explain or have knowledge of the matter because they do not participate in the discussion. As a result, it is not possible to have discussions with members of the Parliament about the content of the matter or what they may have in the matter or what else. Of course, you are tempted to conclude that you do not trust in the discussion because you have not studied the matter or that there is something else that you do not know. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator noted that, of course, the history of the left classes is very long when it comes to being in subjection to foreign authority. A story from time to time comes, of course, to fresh memories of trying to serve a foreign power with Icesave deals and other such. However, it's strange, I think, to see a group such as haphazardize at the same place except--and, however, I withdraw this, a respectable president, for of course, we like the European Union, more national authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. Likely, one Ægisson who put himself in the best of those cases appeared from the distance when all of this was at hand. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has been here looking into his writing and passing through them. Is there a problem? A senator has noticed what Hörður Ægisson wrote at that time, so to speak, he has not thought? Or it seems that he met the question repeatedly so that it would be wise for the present government to have the library as good as any. The senator is on the table in front of him, borrowing and reading through it before making the final decision to attack driving the case through 3rd. and vote? Whatever it is. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has observed from these articles this evening the whole area has been designed to make a lot of sense, and often the eye is obvious, and there the journalist looks at these matters in a position outside the everyday politics. I reiterate the question: Is there anything in this that is difficult to get along with, so to speak?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u99	President. No, there's nothing in this that I've been able to read until now. Of course, this stack we have here is just a fraction of what has been written about decontinents and capitalists and all that process. This, however, is in excellent chronological order, and the order of time is quite consistent with what we know and remember from these times. All of this means my knowledge that this fine journalist wrote and more; in fact, he's giving guidance at the same time as he's about it, saying, "Let's not do it like this. " Let's stick to our course. Let's stand tight. It'll be better for us. Of course you're right. However, I don't think it would help the government to read these articles of his or that text. I think it's just been made decisions. And if you've decided how this case ends then at least It is polite to consider just why men made that journey. I think reading this fine library or news collection, and even though the stack was three times thicker, nothing would change that. However, it is important to link what has been written up to this point, link what Ægisson writes, what the Navy has said in statements and what has been done, with the plan for the release of capital waste because we are still dealing with it. We're still sorry, I think, seeing men make the same mistake they made in the middle of 2016 when the surrender started. It's still on the same expedition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to know if the senator can predict any of those incidents, in view of this howling silence by the government officials, who might take to heart the decision to reconsider when it comes to a judicial committee. You're really worried about this. Now, surely two members of the government are sitting here listening to us breathefully, and I see both taking them up and down after us. Is there anything in this case as a piece of paper? A senator seems to have something to believe, that there is something to listen to? [[The president calls.]] Are we in the position that these two speeches, six and seven - minute lengths, are the total gambling of the government in this vast case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u101	President. Yes, I'm afraid these two brief talks are the entire game of the members of the board and theirs when it comes to the matter's matter. I'm sure there's something to say when it comes to a vote, but I don't think any material discussion will take place based on the way things have developed, unless there's some change of attitude in the night, that there's gonna be some sort of change in our affairs. What happens when the committee handles the matter through discussions is impossible to say. There is a greater chance than that there will be a short committee meeting where the case will be shown and torn out. It seems that the spirit of these agents who are driving this case. Of course, it would be well worth reviewing the case on the committee, getting bank managers and possibly financial personnel to review the questions we've asked here. That's definitely going to help with the next case, 3rd. and a vote and such if these questions are answered. All of this is a question, of course, because we have not had any reaction here in our discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u102	Mr. President. I noticed why. In his talk about the change in business that has taken place among the members of the management team regarding all this matter, a member of the congregation discussed some matters. I wondered, "Who am I?" A senator thought of that flat. Well, now I don't know what kind of information it is. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister has about the owners of the hedge fund. I wondered if the rest of the men, including the left categories that seem to have thought that the matter will come through -- I wonder, do these good people know who they're fighting for? Do you realize who these facial owners of foreign lands are that they are prepared to fight for, above the interests of the Icelanders? If so, I would find it very interesting if men are willing to do such a job, i.e. To take the answer to a foreign hedge fund, which people don't know whose head or tail it is, they don't know who's worth, but they are willing to take their answer for the interests that the Icelandic nation obviously has because of getting as much of the money as possible for the fresh ones involved here. It has been shown that they can study up to 23◯26 billion dollars. by the way we look at it. I wonder what. From that point of view, a senator has reasoned on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u103	President. I find it hard to answer the question, " Do I know who they're fighting or who owns these companies or funds in there? ' Still, we know exactly, like what. A senator said that there are some faceless investors or billionaires in the world who own it. The main point is that it seems that the sacrifice of certain interests is in order to complete this chapter or case in this way. Unfortunately, doing so is not new. I certainly hope that members of the Parliament will use the time they have had and study the matter and follow the discussion to look into the background before it comes to an accounting, whether this is a matter that they support in this way. However, I believe it is important to keep to the point that the answers to the content of the bill need to be made. They may do so on the Committee job between discussions. Reason is lacking for the case why it is justified to end the matter and thus sell the property. That logical support, it may well exist somewhere, but it is not here and has not been observed to-night, and did not arrive last night, although it was called. Whether they know who they're working for in this case, I don't think. I think the problem is that people in general have not completely studied the matter. I think if they did it, maybe there's another tone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u104	Mr. President. I can totally agree with what. A senator said that it is unlikely that humans will be aware of what they are working for, which interests they are caring for. But I find it very strange, and more than strange, that so much more of the council is prepared to make a case of this magnitude pass through the council without any discussion and without any information. From yesterday's day on, I didn't really believe it was this way. Then when you come into the discussion further, and you don't have the chance of getting anyone from this team to come up here to tell us that we're wrong or that we're all mistaken and that this is all the best stuff when no one's counting on us to do it. No one is counting on him to come into this room and meet us in this matter. Then there are some doubts about the fact that a person has studied the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u105	President. Last night and night some members of the council have been around and in the hall, even those who write under the committee, although they are unable to participate in the discussion. That's been clear, including. by not wanting to delay the discussion. I don't know how it works. I'm thinking that if there were any answers, it'd be all right for the discussion, I'd imagine it. In any case, the same questions would not be repeated over and over again. I think there's hope that that's happening right now. But as I said before, it is possible that it will happen in the Committee job. It is, however, interesting to the silence, complete silence that exists among those who are true to it, that it is not even attempted to sell it to a person.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u106	V.E.G. President. We are still dealing with a bill to correct a change in the law on the treatment of crowns, which depend on the specific limitations and currency laws. We've been discussing this case for about 13 hours now. Yet, we have not yet been informed what we have been seeking to answer, and we are still throwing questions between us and the best answers we can answer, we who have been discussing this matter, only members of the Central Party. In my speech earlier this night, I spoke of those capitalists who have not left behind in this process of emissions are just those who are now to receive special talks and cheers on the back, as I put it, in the treatment of this case. Then I was doing a paper in the files we've been doing, and there's an announcement from the National Bank that the bank makes a deal with the owners of the land. With President's permission, I'm going to read here a little: Iceland's government has made a deal with its owners on specific limits, such as the law of No. 37/2016. In the agreement, the sheik buys from the national property of about $100 billion at the walk of 137.5 cents per euro. African owners who have not made an agreement with the bank will be invited to make similar contracts in the next two weeks. The arrangement is made on the basis of the UN account for such a business, as 1 mg. Article III of Law No. 36/2001 on Iceland's Penitentiary. It may be noted that during this time the dollar was very strong and walked to the euro of 107.5. This is to offer these capital owners, who didn't want to be involved at the time of 2015 when the plan was being made of emissions because they have been so persistent and patient to hang like a dog on the redness in that time, knowing that, their thinking definitely, that patient labor works all and that eventually the government will yield itself. This is illustrated in this text and proves to me that the things I could in my talk earlier in the night were well established. I was not completely clear at that point. I had heard it from others. Little by little, you are becoming more aware that governments, including the Navy, do not stand up for these capital owners. Rather, they are actually playing on the government. It's just sad to see it, and it's really sad because, as we've often been through these talks and I've talked about it, that we have to make informed decisions. We need to stand with the people and do what is best for the land and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u107	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Earlier in the night, I put on a certain illustration of why. A senator on the seabed. When preparing for fishing, certain things need to be considered. I'm not going back there. Because of what? A senator, like the one here, has taken care of local politics and national matters. I'd like to ask, "Is it not just the general rule that when governments shape their policies and say they're going to do something, even making certain repairs against violations, it's important that this policy be maintained? ' Is it not important for a person not to turn aside and give the tone when a certain group is misbehaved, so that they are not rewarded in some way? This can also be compared to training children; a child who does not obey, who gets aggressive, goes his own way, and is rewarded for it, or ignores it - is a proper method of parenting? I say this because everything in this case suggests that once again the prize should be paid by this landowner, who has been like the naughty kid, like the one who didn't want to obey or go by the rules, has been waiting on the patience and endurance of those who are supposed to rule and rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Of course, there is a policy that confirms something that interests me. Because the senator mentioned rural politics, I was in the town government in my hometown for four years, one elected period, where he learned a lot, like everything you do in your life. At that time, the mayor was a long - term political experienced ball for many years and decades, former Ministers, senators, and president of the Generals at his time. He was very consistent and steadfast in everything we did. It was very good to work with him in that way so that we could feel the strength that his experience and hard work gave us. He was that marin engaged in politics that if we felt bad about something, he just said, "Put this on me, it'll see if it's not black. " I'm just saying this because it takes natural courage and determination to stand up for its political interests. But that's not what you feel when we talk about this particular case, that's what you do. This does not make you think of a course or a confirmation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u109	President. Policy and confirmation, it's important that two things work together if one is going to succeed. On the other hand, if a course is offered and set in a certain way, but then everyone gradually starts to yield, perhaps pursue threats, or even as the people expect and do not follow the policy, they end up walking in order and trying to use it for their own benefit, as it seems to be taking place here. I want to know what's wrong. A senator agrees with me: Could this discussion become a little more specific and clearer if we had found answers to many of the questions we have raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u110	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. With the last question asked by the senator, would we have had to talk so far into the night if more people had participated in the discussion? if both management and other government groups had participated in the discussion. It has been noted many times that the case does not follow much pride from governments themselves. You can see it only at the time it's been taken, some six minutes before speaking the language. Period.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u111	President. We've been wondering what would result from the absence of both the government and the government, the members of the government. We have, as it were, been the only ones who have had theories to play, who simply have no trust to attend here to hold as much as one speech ever since. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has read the commission. We don't have much to build. Hv. A senator mentioned one thing I have been wondering about, and that is the effect of an ever stronger system, a system system of things, at the expense of political influence. Could it be that the explanation is simply that neither government nor government organizations really have an idea of what is involved and that they have no confidence in defending the matter? If this is the case, should it not be a major concern for all of us if they are writing up a case and expect to be called to vote by it, without having an idea of what it means, not even to the point of their confidence in making one little speech? What does it tell us about how far we are in the system and how the system measures things differently? With us in the central category on this big business of interest? At that time, it seems that the position of the government is moving more toward what was in the history of the left government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for this answer. That is exactly the joy of receiving that question because of reason. A senator has spoken of his own system of government and government, the power of officials over politicians, and the courage or courage of politicians, elected agents, to maintain his own convictions, and to stake his political head on his work. Thus, incorporated politicians usually achieve the best results, even though, as the examples prove, they are sometimes put to political death. I completely agree with the senator with that. It takes courage and courage, because we also talked about policy and determination before, being a politician, and standing with our own convictions, as the oath says when we sit here to work for the first time, speaking out of our own hearts. This trend that has taken place in recent years is a major concern. The political will be kind of in my mind degenerates, I can't say it any different at the moment, and we must worry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u113	President. After that, the answer is yes. A senator would like to ask him a question of conscience: How would you feel? A senator with that if he was part of a government member, a administrative body, and was intended to vote in a language that he would not have received any introduction to which he could and would not trust to explain it? In other words, he would be meant not only to vote blindly in the sense that he was not given information but also to know that those who brought it up and should bear it up would not even have it in their own hands, trust at least not to defend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u114	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I can just tell you honestly that it would be a very bad feeling, having to vote on something that you don't have information about, but trusting in other people, maybe in the council or something like that, just don't have information about it like sometimes, and I used to shave in a speech earlier. Perhaps, as the senator came in, he knew that the same people who make the matter clear also do not have the facts or with the information that should lead to the assurance that you could vote properly by applying them. It's really bad, and if you go to that sort of thing, time is better spent on something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Jónsson, was victorious for his speech. I'd like to go on, since they left me behind. paritaprevir Davíð Gunougsson's Gunnlaugsson on how the matter looks. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson even now makes it clear that those who present the case do not want to appear here and reason on the points presented in the bill. They seem to want it somehow to go through without it. The conclusion was clearly that the entire case would be discussed as little as possible. All four sides of the government opposition seem to be fulfilled, since the matter goes through as comfortable as possible. Whether it is their interest in further closer to the European Union or what it is, which is the root of it is not quite easy to control. I would be interested to hear a little more clearly how this procedure is performed by those who present the case. paritaprevir The Sigurður for Páll Jónsson, as regards leaving behind men who have been offered support, is evident that those who present the case do not want to take the political stand to support it and to justify it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For these questions, the Bergþór of Ólason. This case has struck you badly since the first time it came up to talk. We remember it just before Christmas when it was supposed to come into this council five minutes before Christmas. We rejected it, and then it came through January through 1st. and into the committee and then with this trial at the council today. The Senator mentioned the four party parties, how they handle this matter to me. One has grown to realize that there are, in fact, two governmental oppositions at the council, one and two positions of government. Either we are in opposition to one or two, and then there are the rest of the government groups. So it's just like that, and it's all good. I don't know what they're doing or if they're in charge. I agree with what we have been wondering between us, that it is not with pride or determination, but rather with much unpleasant taste in the mouth of this matter - we may be able to say: not with a clean conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u117	Now it seems that a president has gone quite far along with the repeated comments of the day. The members of the Central Party here are protesting that there is a measure of evidence that there is a different motive behind the attitude of other members of Congress on this matter. The president will ask, though it is late in the night; and here they are keeping their words without speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u118	A respectable president. I suppose it would be best to adjust my words so that I try to get my views to the conference board here directly from this point of view. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in my second objection, sees whether he can achieve more harmony than we have seen in this hall for the last 13 hours or if he can see to it that we middle-class members continue to speak here until tomorrow's council meeting starts and try to call for answers. Some are still in a house that could answer some of our questions. I'm gonna ask you how you're doing. A senator sees the wind coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u119	V.E.G. President. I have to start by saying I'm sorry if I've come up with an irresistible word earlier. I didn't realize that. But then I'll answer a question. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, I can't possibly predict the course of the case. We're just talking it over and over and over, and we're really little closer because we've been in our gang to discuss it between us. We have requested that other members of the council, preferably those who spoke the case, explain certain factors, but they have not yet gone on. So I can't possibly tell myself what the outcome of the situation will be in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u120	A respectable president. It is quite remarkable that the president would intervene with the words he fell. We've been here 13 hours trying to get some answers to our queries, our repeated queries. The president does not know that I especially worked hard to help us find answers to them. It is now four o'clock in the morning, or night, depending on the way we look at it, and it is clear that we will stay here. However, I think I make a serious comment about the fact that today, for example, the president of the Central Party was almost a thieflike and accused of being corrupt and of stealing money through a society owned by his wife, etc. That's what President's gonna do without a name. The president also allows senators to find out that other senators here come from this public chair, show up with hats on their heads, no shoes, not dressed well. [[The president calls.]] That's what the president's going to do. [[The president calls.]] This meeting board is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u121	President. Yes, we have repeatedly seen that when it comes to the President's conference board, it doesn't matter who's involved. To be honest, I must admit that I didn't quite understand what was in President's comments earlier. I don't know that when it comes to the obvious fact that no member of the board and no member of the council who has stood by the board on this case, members of the council have been counting on themselves to come up here and defend the matter. Although the head of the Economic and Business Committee read up a committee opinion, he did not trust to defend himself. I imagine that the man who now sits in the chair often made comments to other senators and that they did not discuss matters without the thought of exasperating themselves to the point of putting men to the Senate for pointing to the absence and unconcernedness of other members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u122	Mr. President. I have to ask a president to explain the words he made a little better. It may be that the attention may not be quite as if it were already to be in the morning, but I don't know how to beat any man tonight about anything, and I haven't called any man a pussy or anything like that. In fact, I have to admit that if there have been some words here tonight and night that are unacceptable or unappreciative to anyone, I feel that the president has become somewhat Catholic. I just don't know that those words fell here. But I guess we have called for an explanation in any way that the matter has been discussed and why it is so finished. If it's not allowed here and now, and if you're going to write down the Senate talks at will, I think you have to put lines in force for everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u123	I'm sure it's time to make a wish. After being sought for a president to explain what led him to ask senators in all kindly manner to take care of their words. By the time it was decided that both members of Congress had witnessed to the Constitution and wondered where people were in a position to do so, claiming that members of the council who were concerned with this matter or who were not of the same mind as those who have held up these discussions had a bad conscience against the case, the president felt that it was enough. Then the president found it necessary to ask members of the council to guard their words. It is unusual for members of Congress to be asked to take care of their words, and it is a mild resort that presidents would like to use. That's all President has to say about this, and those words will not be retracted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u124	President. I calculate firmly that this is the president's setting of new criteria when it comes to the manner in which a person uses his words in this discourse. Is this a set of standards quite far from the language or the words that the president himself has made in this house, but it is fine if a person grows soft with the years and chooses new lands or new words to use. We must continue to be aware that this will be followed closely when other members of the council speak in this discourse because until now the president has not been equal when it comes to it. It is a concern when the General Assembly is placed where the presidents of the Parliament, I intend to now say that the president has become president of some members of Congress, at the discretion of some members. There's worry, and I think we're in that place, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u125	A respectable president. I must admit, as was later stated in my answer earlier, that I was quite shocked to hear the comments of the president. They were made so in time that I could not help but take them to heart. I am entitled to criticize it in the manner of which and what viewpoint is behind the members of either the members of the committee or the representatives of this case, while there is no such thing as a small percentage of the data available, explaining no of the points we are trying to understand, for none of the points we have put to the greatest emphasis on having been made clear in the evidence available, which is the bill on the other hand, and the reference to the committee. I'm sure it's a requirement for us senators to find out something about these matters. Part of the conversation we have here, unfortunately, mainly with ourselves, members of the Central Party, is trying to figure out what other members of Congress are doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u126	President. The president would certainly be setting up new guidelines here, not only with regard to what he has been doing for decades as a senator, but also because of new standards he was setting for all other members of the Council now if it were not for the fact that the president has repeatedly revealed that the same standards do not appear to exceed all members of the council. In other words, it seems that most likely there is a prelude to appoint members of the Central Party, particularly while members of other members of the council, many come up with a clean, amazing presentation at the Assembly Hall from this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u127	President. I must express my frustration with the words the president has made to us senators who have been here for a while. I don't know exactly how to take it when words such as these fall from a chair. However, if it was the intention of a president to establish himself as president of some members of the council, I believe that he did quite well before. I'm actually very sorry because the presidents I've been working in my short career have striven exactly to be presidents of the entire council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u128	A respectable president. I can't help passing in here how different councilmen's words seem to be evaluated from the chair. It has been quite clear in its long chapters to hear each song spoken by some senators. I have no secret that it is as if the group of Pirats, as a whole, is on a completely special contract in those areas, although some of the four groups try to level on chapters. I encourage the president to keep in mind that harmony is being taken care that as he hears us here, we do not experience it at this moment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u129	It is true here that the one sitting on the President's throne has had the responsibility of speaking indistinguishable words and often received requests from presidents to take care of his words, and he has always accepted them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u130	A respectable president. I'll ask the President at the outset to hold back himself from speaking to me, for I'm going to continue to criticize the small things here that have remained silent for the 14th hour, as I think. Of course, it is quite remarkable to have witnessed repeatedly, especially in terms of financial planning and funding for the two times that funding has been taken over in the council since I sat down at council, that members of Congress -- I'm going to allow me to take out the opposing council members of the United States in my speech -- who have in the long weeks gone so hard as to speak in a way that they may be taking advantage of themselves here and inside the system when men don't want to cock the tax - all the way. Often, such language is carried out according to the measuring bar laid on us here. As far as the president's concerned, you could hit the table quite often because of what's happened. Councilmen of the United States of America. We are talking about the amount of money that is much lower than what we are considering today. We're talking about the amount of money that is in our system all over it, creating jobs, jobs, and taxes when the cycle begins again. But here we are talking about the amount of money that, if you put it all out of the system, will benefit no one here at home, not state funds, the public, or anyone who works within the range of gross domestic product. These groups speak - and again, in this speech, just about the members of the United States in this context - I allow myself to say, in a serene way, about those they say are paying taxes to billions of dollars, that they are given billions of dollars above, and so on. But in this discussion, this same group of people keep silent, just as they do. Hv. The head of the Conspiracy, Logi Einarsson, is in the majority opinion. You have to assume that he will support the case as it is, along with the thinness of the majority opinion, in addition to the bill itself. For proper numbers officers and women, this is one of the songs of a twin, who is quite impatient to have had no opportunity to speak and to have a word about the largest of the four parties in the government position, evidently because the group has not shown itself. I just don't remember seeing any Union in the hall all those 13 hours. There's a chance. Harðardóttir It was a sort of gnating image of a gnat. There is no way to have a conversation with this group that works as hard as it has been, with others in this room. I think we have to make a requirement that in such vast, complex, large, and important matters, there is a requirement for a man to have a place to speak in such matters as this, as it seems to be from the opinion of the committee that all members of Congress unless the Central Party have a complete mind behind it. But everybody's hiding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u131	President. Now that we have been discussing this matter for a considerable time, we have not yet received any answers. It's a question of whether the president would be willing to take advantage of the hall as one of the general members of the council who are in the house and perhaps. engage in the discussion or at least listen to it, and may respond and respond even if there are answers. I believe the President is concerned with the discussion here. But I don't know. I'd like to ask the senator about what we've been discussing earlier tonight, that's the awkward feeling we have -- now I have to be careful about - that the senators may not have done enough research on the issues here on the program, and because of their lack of participation in the discussion. I can't think of making it up to people that they're ignoring the General or lying in some way or that there's some other view behind their failure to participate. I can't think of a man like that. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament whether it might be missing some kind of presentation or enlightenment for a reason. For example, members of the classes that are held in this matter, members of the party, for example, are still alive. A senator calls himself so beautiful, the rest of the government groups, all of whom have come into one button somehow and may seek to match in all of this. They've also been called the Syndicates here. I'm asking if they and the government may need some. to get some kind of information or presentation in the language so that they can participate in the discussion, since this silence is becoming quite difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u132	A respectable president. I'm afraid there's something in this question. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, may not be very informed about this matter. It is as if the council's work is being carried out here that members of the council trust their representatives in a certain committee to go before the council when it comes to taking their stand on a particular matter. In this case, it seems, in fact, that all political parties have jumped on this wagon that seems to be as poor as with a light ballast. I'm going to put it this way, so I hope it's just been missing a presentation and discussion, as it can be improved. I don't believe it, because I spoke of members of the United States in my speech, and that category is, of course, known for their keen interest in increasing contact with the European Union, I just don't believe that men use such cases in some such context. I believe that there's some information there that needs to be identified in the picture that is actually seen when the outer layers of this finish have been taken, but we've been trying to get to the core of it today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u133	President. Now we have what? A senator does not know or suspect whether any introduction has taken place in this case for those not on the committee. Now we have no doubt that members of the Parliament have been given the opportunity to intervene. But I'm not going to vote, whenever it gets, on this matter without finding out or knowing what it's all about. It would not be good to plan such things. However, it is a concern if the general members of Congress do not make a distinction - and now I am not accusing any senator - of matters of large and important importance, of national interest such as this matter, and of other matters. I'm not accusing anyone of that. But it must be a concern when such a big matter is to be rolled through the council as seems to be planned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u134	A respectable president. I can't help but agree with this view. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson of Sólgi, in terms of the nature, size, and importance of this matter, if it is to become any norm that such matter is to run through with a single seven-minute speech and a second six-minute speech, and then in both instances the speakers deliver from house to house, at any distance from the hall. I'm not gonna do it. paritaprevir Björn Kárason said he ran from house to house, I know he didn't, but he left at least and did not participate in the discussion. This, of course, is below all the caves. Regarding the situation, members of Congress do not realize the size and importance of the matter, you suspect that it is part of the problem without the courage to make a firm decision. However, the attention and discussion of the matter are completely consistent with its underlying importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u135	Mr. President. I remember six years ago or so ago, for a discussion at the council, there was a change in hunting costs, no less like what was won here in the fall. However, those who were not at that time changing their fishing fees to the extent they did, had a public question to us in some way: What interests are being cared for, and what interests are being spent? It was said that those who wanted to change the law then valid, or rather put laws in order to collect fishing costs, were doing the business of some of the people who had a interest in it. In short, it was given unspoken speech and is still to this day, because I have still heard this song from time to time when a big matter comes into play here. In this discussion, however, no such statement has been made. Nothing. But I agree with what. A senator giving a fine talk here is of concern when cases of this magnitude are allowed to pass through the council completely. Then the council and its members are to be used as a cashier or a plunger pad. So if those words are unappreciative, I must be rebuked, but that is exactly what is being tried to do now by the fact that this matter is going to be completely out of my mind through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u136	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm sorry, and there's this feeling in a man that he should have tried to stamp this case lightly after two talks and that he wasn't much more. But again, because we try very carefully to talk these minutes. In connection with questions about the individual's interests, it seems that many are getting quite cheap from scrutinizing people with so many kinds of unhealthy and evil desires. Human beings are shocked to defend the other and these society groups that are considered to be the worst representatives of society. I wondered when I saw those who signed this committee opinion - under the heading, even. Yeah. Pier of Pirata, Eymarsdóttir the daughter of Eymar: What interest shall she have in this matter? What's the problem? paritaprevir Logi S. Einar S. Einarsson to be careful in this matter? What's the problem? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson to be careful in this matter? And so you could count. Of course, it is not acceptable to constantly tell men about such unhealthy things, even though the stone, of course, had completely removed from it with disgusting statements at the same time. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr earlier today, which, of course, are made to believe that it's below every block that a president didn't intervene when they were told.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u137	Mr. President. I agree with it. A senator said earlier. First of all, it is shocking to speak of a case of this magnitude - we are not talking about the arrangements for dog cleansing in the Bessiell situation, with great respect for the sector, we are talking about a case that is important to all Icelanders. We're talking about something that's worth up to 84,000 million. K. who will be able to leak out of the country at any time after accepting this bill. I can't see that it's unappreciative to request that those who want this street through the council in three hours and 15 minutes explain it in some way to the rest of us who don't like it. If it is unworked to bring such men and women into the hall, please ask that we explain why and for what reason this situation is so urgent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If it is uncontaminated, we must just be unappreciative.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u138	A respectable president. I think that's exactly the point, anyway, of him. In answer, a senator stated: "What calls for this immediate action, and what calls for this release of funds from the system, when the review of the Secret Bank and the Commission's opinion of change of motion underscores that people are not ready? " I think for our fine economy nothing can happen unless, in view of our present situation, one comes back and reviews that decision. Although there is a temporary need for these seas, there is no reason for this decomposition to occur right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u139	President. In view of the problem. A member of the Parliament specifically discussed the United States Parliament party, I felt it proper to remind him to remind him of the party's guardian, e.g. paritaprevir Einar Kárason, sitting here with us only in front of us and, as a matter of fact, did not speak in public, but made an answer that was primarily about that. One senator described his lack of accurate privacy; he did not understand the nature of the matter well enough. Hv. A senator was, of course, encouraged to follow along and to take part in the discussion. I think he's done something about it, listened to one speech from me, but he didn't get the whole tour, which was about the review of the Secret Bank at any point when there was a back from his previous plans. I hope it's what it is. A senator watched the discussion, and some other members of the council are also able to settle down to the extent that we members of the Central Party are capable of doing so. But we are also asking questions. We're pointing to things that we think are obvious, such as the fact that this involves complete elimination from the previous course. But we are also asking questions, especially: Why? Why will governments now so strongly abandon their previous plans? Is then what? A senator agreed that it is important to know the answer before this discussion ends: Why are former plans being abandoned, as is obviously being done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u140	A respectable president. I'll get to start in the end, so to speak. I have no reason to understand what it can be, which can explain why people so fully descend into the final part of the task plan. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson came in, of course, right in this regard, it's completely unexplained. We must, it's just a reasonable requirement, to get an explanation of why this decision is made. There's nothing on the committee, there's nothing on the bill, there's nothing in the talk. The minister of finance, and there is no explanation for this in the talk of the prominent committee. Just nothing. Then United States Vice General, huh? paritaprevir The Einar Kárason Kamazon. I have to apologize for forgetting about him when I tried to recall the presence of a group member today, but what? Of course, a member of the body was not involved in a physical grave, saying that he was totally out driving. There were others in the hall who felt that they were a little at that point with the matter, since responses were not made to reasonable, natural questions. But how enlightened he was after listening to us, I find it hard to judge about, but it was at least obvious. paritaprevir Einar Kárason had not received any assistance from his own body in determining and identifying the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u141	President. There is no explanation why this decision should be made. However, this peculiar message from Iceland's Secret Bank stated that if this decision was made, it should be taken at the latest yesterday. Now it is clear that it was not done. It was not even a conference that day. What happens then? Am I right about what I'm saying? The senator, that this is the government document that was described as due that day's pay, but paid in a special closed bank account that has no interest in the actual plans as they were originally meant to be? In other words, isn't it just what it's supposed to be? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u142	A respectable president. Yeah, I think that's just the way it is. paritaprevir Davíð's Gunnlaugsson Sigmundur, described, as it will appear to men today and again tomorrow, and the release of the letters of government that had deadlines today will only be quite fine, and in effect, to the extent of what was brought up, and therefore, as I have said before in the discussion, we should not assume anything. We are to take the matter into consideration and consider the size of the committee. I think we're going to have to let ourselves admit that it's just a nice way to go. There is no hurry about taking any dramatic action. [[The president calls.]] This whole thing didn't happen unorthodox at a bond market today, I've checked it out. [[The president calls.]] Let's just let it breathe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u143	A respectable president. We have made good use of the time we have had in this discussion. We haven't been complaining a lot about the President's conference board or the general Congress. We haven't called the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee to sit here for all this discussion, though it's unusual to do. On the other hand, a president has every reason to resign himself to members of Congress, says that he himself experienced the fact that he was put in touch with a president, who always accepted it. It is also easy to accept it when one is passed over. I'd like to ask the highest. President, the chairman of this meeting tonight, first of all, is it okay to have presidents when other members of the United States burglary are meeting together? Second, is it okay to accuse members of the Parliament to use their positions as senators or ministers to make their own business a success? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u144	It is the president who is on the President's throne at any given time to appreciate how he can do his best to maintain a good order and maintain a good grip on the hearing, and the president who conducts meetings each time has authority. That in itself is not even true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u145	President. As a result of this response, the president of the Generals is moved to ask if he does not view it as his job to keep some harmony in the way the vice presidents of the council operate. Or whether it is safe to believe that when he himself, the president of the Generals, sits in the chair, he uses his standards that appear to be very different, as noted, depending on who is involved, but it is for every member of Congress, vice president, to create his own standards for the presentation, speech, or conduct of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u146	Mr. President. I agree with it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson said earlier. This recent conference has not turned into running into a pit every half hour and reviewing the President's meeting board for some unnatural motive. On the other hand, tonight the contact of the President with members of Congress is required to call for the prime committee members who are announced tomorrow's lunch date to be reviewed very well, and particularly for us, the vice presidents, to review in an orderly manner how each president's reaction to the General Council is to ensure that all who are in this room and participate in the hearing or to participate in the council will sit at the same table and be received along with each member of the President's body.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u147	The president does not reason with his vice president in this field but agrees with what is said here. Actually, there is. I'm sure a senator knows there's an attempt to coordinate the President's conference board. There is a manual that presidents can use in this regard, so after prisoners, they try to coordinate how Presidents handle parallel cases in a meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u148	President. I posed a question to the President of the General Assembly just before my first request to address the issue of a meeting with the president. I asked the President of the Generals if it would be all right to have thieves identified from the General Assembly, and it is also possible to consider whether it is all right to do so in general at the halls of the Generalis, at committees, or somewhere else in the general House of the General Assembly. I also asked if it would be okay to accuse the senators of using their positions in order to set aside their own cakes or to care for the interests of families, to add it here. I was not asking about the general order of the President of the United States for another president. I was asking what the president of the General Assembly, one of the presidents of Iceland, might say in this chair. I think it'd be nice to get President's guidance on that. This guide module can be used to cover all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u149	I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must be able to answer that it is not proper for a thief to treat a man unjustly. But otherwise, there is no prepared question period in which the president is answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u150	Mr. President. I just thought that we were getting a participant during the discussion and that also helped me to see that the person would be attentive to the discussion, but he saw his or her unmarriedness and left immediately. The person standing here has probably spent half of his life in caring for the financial resources in various ways, as a body collector for the state funds and guardian of a government fund, prior to the work where the individual was entrusted with the financial resources of others. Therefore, I take very seriously the duty of the Parliament to monitor the European Commission, especially when the financial resources of one year depend on, much less than one tenth of the budget. Therefore, if I were the President of the Generals, who I am not, I would have a measure of concern that matters of such a great deal of money should flow through the General Assembly without discussion in three hours and 15 minutes. That is why I have been very happy to share in this discussion that has now stood here in a drunken hall if it could either take this matter that we have been discussing another course or that we get some kind of comfort, if we can put it that way, from those who rely on them to sign a committee opinion that would be about just less than one tenth of the budgets of a year and then roll it through the council at three hours and 15 minutes. This explanation has not been given, this comfort has not been given to us, and the matter is so exotic to us as it is to me as seriously as it was when we began this discussion some time ago. The Government Treaty now known as a diplomacy on the expansion of the II Parliament. Mr. President, is it to promote the General Assembly, to promote its role, to increase its respect, to further faith in it, and to trust that matters of this magnitude should go through the council in three hours and 15 minutes? I don't think so, Mr. President. That's why and only because we've been here and discuss this time, not to get somebody else involved, not to make certain persons suspicious, though the president seems to have kept it over a period, but to care for the interests of the state that we all have, to protect the interests of the nation that chose us here to do our part, to keep track of e.g. telaprevir/Efavirenz. I say again: When cases of this magnitude are concerned with the amount of money that is about A tenth of Iceland's budget in 2019 is to go through the General Assembly in three hours and 15 minutes, we must stand up and protest it and crush it. I'm sorry that it is in some way suspicious of a president that this group would like to take advantage of their rights and duties to monitor the executive authority and to pay for the legal proceedings to go against a fairly successful job and with a fair review. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u151	President. I thank the senator for his speech. You may wonder, " Have we come to the point where it is clear, and perhaps we should have realized this long ago, that we will not be able to find answers to the questions we have raised? ' Then there is no other question than to wait and see if there are any answers in the Committee Jobs between 2 and 3. I believe, however, that we must keep on trying to get answers from the few members of the council. It's getting pretty small, so some people may be thinking about going to the gym for a hearing in the morning. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether this case could be so developed that it simply pays to try to put it off, more than just between discussions, since we have not found answers to any of the questions presented here. You feel, rather than the other, as the discussion goes on and more speculations and questions come up, that the matter is actually bigger than you might expect. As a result, it is reasonable that there will be an even longer period than just one meeting between discussions to review the subject. Of course it's questionable. A senator, that we are in that position. But while we do not have answers, there is nothing wrong with wondering what turns up and what down into it and what things are supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u152	Mr. President. I see why. Of course, in the long run, it is exhausting and rather destructive to engage in discussions or discussions about matters that no one can share in. Time and again has been called after a minister's presence in such discussions. I know there's a secretary of finance abroad. However, the question is, Is it not proper to postpone the second round? The case until the highest. A financial minister can take part in it and soothe our concern that they are here, with the bill that is available and that is going through the Council in three hours and 15 minutes, to reduce the possibility and poorness of Iceland's interests in this way as it is now, and as it stands before us now, inexplicably and uninformed. Perhaps it would be wise to postpone the discussion until the highest point. For example, a financial minister may be here and discuss the matter over a period of more than seven minutes and may possibly shed light on the matter for us who are truly concerned about it. That alone is the reason for this discussion. Perhaps it would be wise to direct the chairman of the council to consider in his own heart whether he can improve the point and the way he handles the work done by Generalis to cancel the discussion until a financial minister can be with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u153	President. This is an excellent idea for the senator to stay with this until a financial minister is able to participate, since none of the other senators seem to be, well, I'm not going to argue because they were not spoken at all; but it seems at least that there is a lack of information to other senators on the matter, whether it is from a financial minister or elsewhere. The minister of finance is naturally the expected man and has certainly tried to do his best to inform members of the matter. But somewhere, something has landed between a ship and a dock. In any case, the members of that body have had no opportunity or are not entrusted with the answers we are calling on. It is always fun and enjoyable to have a word with a minister of finance, a domineer, an honest, good man who is good to talk to. So it's not the wrong idea we've heard tonight, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u154	Mr. President. This discussion we've been participating in has been very good in my opinion, although it was naturally one - sided because we needed the other side. Nobody wants to bring us the other side. Of course, the debate pays off for it. But I am prepared to continue the discussion. True, I have a meeting at nine o'clock, but otherwise I am prepared to continue to discuss the matter for as long as I need to. So I'll just see the luncheon run in a mirage, and I might as well continue to discuss the matter until then. I guess we'll have a lunch break then. On the other hand, I am very serious that it would be easy to postpone the discussion until the minister of finance, who has all the threads in his hands, which are familiar with all knots, can cross it in its own balanced and careful way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u155	President. Hv. A senator has stressed the degree of interest involved in this matter. I truly agree. But to put it in a better context, I felt that it might be appropriate to go through with the problem. A report published in the newspaper Science in June 2016 was published just before the Court Bank was due to begin a currency release. The report of Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson, son of Israel, discusses the cost of the bank collapse. It shows that after what was then prepared of action, the Kingdom had gained about 286 billion dollars. ... onthefeatthefeet. However, there would be postoperative action to protect the deltas. In June 2016, the report on an tender tender invitation states that it stands for the resolution of the 319 billion dollars. At that time, a step during the course of 190-220 k. For each euro, and all the owners of a foreign country are involved in the auction, the payoff of the state's funds could be about 86 billion. So that is where we have a complete number, for we have been primarily discussing this final milestone here today. But if they had followed the plan from the beginning and made people believe that they had to be involved, that would be 86 billion bucks. ... ina currency savings to make money for the state's funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u156	Mr. President. This is exactly what I think we all, who have participated in this discussion here tonight and night, were trying to shed light on, i.e. how much interests are involved in having a careful discussion of the case now and that all of us are convinced that the conclusion of the matter, when completed, is right and has the right to secure the interests of the State, the nation, as we have confidence and ability. I think that's the point. At least that's the counterweight I know that this group that has been involved in the discussion here since three last night. This is why this group has to continue this discussion despite its uniqueness - to shed light on and present the responsibility of all of us members, including the 54 who have not trusted to participate in the discussion, i.e. To take a good look at matters entrusted to us here and to reach the conclusions we truly believe and think, confident that they are the right and best for the people who chose us, the people. Therefore, I still encourage the discussion and discussion on this subject to be more serious, more tricky, and more than it seems to have been in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u157	President. Yeah, that's a good water main. Senator. On the other hand, the president has shown no evidence that he is willing to exert himself on the arrival of the other side. On the contrary, it is better for the president to discuss this matter under cover of night. That is why I am not optimistic about how this other person will respond to a very reasonable idea. Of course, only a financial minister would be aware of the country to participate in the discussion. In the meantime, however, we have to try to draw the best of our ways on the matter. In fact, there are some things to be said, for it is such a large and extensive matter of interest, both on the economic side and also on the basis of government credibility. Of course, there are some things that have already been pointed out, although the discussion would clearly be better if people sought to explain their side, those who want to accept this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u158	Mr. President. I'll agree with that. Senator. Of course, it is very desirable that both aspects of this matter are discussed. It would be most successful for such a case, it would be the most successful for both parties, those who want to accept this case and those who have doubts - and it would be natural to underscore the authority of the Council, which the present government claims to represent. This discussion is good, and it in itself will improve as it goes on because even if it comes from one side, we may be small enough to approach the core of the matter. That's fine. The discussion will never be complete or good until both sides are heard. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it would be desirable for the minister of finance to find out in some way at some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. In his talk about his former careers as a collector of Kingdom funds and a treasurekeeper on the other hand and then a job where he, as he put it, had been entrusted with the financial resources of other people in business. Of course, there are many who express themselves eagerly from this pont, saying that they want to do the most and best of all for the interests of their clients, making sure that each tax dollars is due and that the taxback bow is excited to the limit. But in this particular matter, I would like to hear from it. A senator's experience, in the light of his previous profession, is that men overlook this considerable supply of money in the state fund that you should be expected to take place and could become as it were, on the basis of this pedestrian action that was initiated on 2015, but it now seems that men are letting go. Whether people talk about 13.6 billion or 23 or anyone else, this is serious. I'd like to know how the former head of state funds is doing with this crash, because, of course, it's also money that stays inside the system and makes a job or a job or support the welfare system, not going out of the Icelandic economic system at any point, whenever it becomes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u160	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. I've really spent all my time at a council, which is now not a very long time, worrying about how the fees collect. Hence, it was natural with a very happy mind that I, for example, had. joined my associates in the central category of 2nd. This fall's budget suggested that the office of the head of the tax and taxpayer be helped to collect on a minimum taxpayer's fees. The central category contributed an increase in budgets of 6.5 billion. which was fully financed by improved collections of state funds, i.e. the prior fees. We were not talking about a new tax system. The ideas we have had in the Middle Ages on improved collections at a government fund now confirmed me in the district of last week, where we visited both the government tax manager and the tax investigator. Then I found out from both offices that our Middle Class suggestions are on the 2nd. Funds that were covered by the entire administration team and others were right, they were timely, and they were completely realistic. I'm worried about what I've done as a former body collector of state funds and guardian for many years when government funds leak. There's something that tells me about the release of this case right now that it contains a lot of leaks out of the state fund. It really bothers me, and it just violates my convictions about what I've been doing in here, that I'm doing the right thing by putting it over my head, and we all here that this case is done in three hours and 15 minutes through the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. That's exactly how the money we're talking about comes at least. Not into a government fund, as it turns out. This further underscores the importance of answering the question, Why? Why is this being done? What's this after-treatment going to be? There are somewhere between five and ten members of this room, 83 or 84 billion dollars. "Stabby." Why is the approach in the way it is being made today? As a result, they are, in view of the stage where the plan was run to an end, that considerable amounts of money will not be turned into a trust fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u162	Mr. President. That's absolutely right. A senator says here. It seems this way at first and second glance that the matter is in the way that the government's funds and thus the nation will be made of a substantial amount of money. And now I'm still taking out the number I told you earlier. We're discussing a case that concerns the amount of money that is about Ten percent of all government funds. The 23 billion we've been discussing here today and tonight and tonight that could be lost in this lawsuit, as it is now built up, is the amount of nearly any remainder of the government budget in 2019, estimated at 29 billion dollars. I must say once again, Mr. President, these numbers are so hard to understand that this case has no better treatment than it has already received at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u163	The president would like to say that we are there at night, that we have come a lot closer than night, and that, according to President's opinion, we are going to leave at least a night. The president wants to ask, though. 3.m. South, next to the speaker's will, would it be okay to wait until tomorrow for the President's speech to be carried out after the discussion can be held in the afternoon? Do you wish to speak to the President's conference board? [[Yeah, I'd love to talk about it.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u164	Mr. President. I explained earlier that it might be wise to build more confidence in the subject of the second issue. it would be postponed until the highest. A minister of finance could be with us and explain something and other for us who have stood here for a long time in this discussion. Therefore, to make it formal, I would like to ask the president to see if he can find a surface between the present hour and the fast - approaching tomorrow, to see if the discussion could be delayed until the highest level. Secretary of finance will be arriving in the country on his journey. I don't think it would take a very long discussion with the highest level. Secretary of finance to end the discussion reasonably. [[The president calls.]] I expect, because I know him as a gentleman, that we don't have any problem having a good conversation with him on the subject, and I challenge him to the top. Mr President, to accept my request for careful consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u165	The President had already decided with his assistant here to investigate in the morning whether the acting secretary of finance in the absence of financial and economic ministers who are abroad on duty, if I know correctly, might be here for a discussion tomorrow, but it will be announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u166	Borist has a letter from 8th. South, Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason, and 10th. Smoke. n., Ólafur Ísleifsson, dated February 25, 2019, that they joined the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u167	Prior to a brief meeting period, votes on the 3rd and 4th part of the program can be expected after the discussion. After these votes, they will set up a new meeting and will attend the meeting session on 5 to 11, if allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u168	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, transport and rural Ministers and social and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u169	Mr. President. I'm gonna get right to the point. Now it's the highest. Minister of the vice president of the largest political party and also a matter of the lowest paid women class. First, I want to see if she does not have much understanding of the fact that cleaning people, a low - paying group, which is largely appointed women, often of foreign origin, try with all available means to correct their own interests. V.E.G. A minister agreed with a financial minister and the head of the travel agency in yesterday's News magazine that there was little room for pay gain and that it was strange to expect a loss on the level that created most jobs and much of the value in the past few years. I understand the situation is fragile. But who are the things that make the value, the highest? Minister? Is it not the very people who serve in this article, often in the lice? Many of these people have moved to the country to create these valuables for Iceland. Does a minister of these people not feel completely normal about better terms? If, yes, what solution does a minister have to meet that, since she feels that a business does not depend on it? In other words, will governments offer further suggestions than those presented last week? I give myself a speech saying that there is one of the world's greatest revenues. You see, we do not live in averages, and the lowest wage is not enough for a living. A minister might also give up praise on the government's tax proposals, explaining that the lowest paid people are making the most money. You see, people don't pay for food and gas in proportion to wages. And a cleaning girl can't buy any more in a bonus for $6,700 bucks. ... butwewhat. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers. In other words, the highest. Minister: What can be done, and what can be expected from the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. A few questions were raised there. It is difficult to answer what to do when it comes to it. A senator then begs that the proposals of the government are specifically discussed. I don't remember an accurate wording, but it's a familiar theme that people don't eat the averages and excels, but people don't eat instability, and people don't eat inflation or interest. If I'm asked if I consider the lowest wage perfectly just, I answer, of course not. There is no such society in this world where the lowest paid live with very strong and much justice. Then you need to watch what road we've been on when we look at - and it can be called averages that no one eats but I choose to call them fact, and we must speak out of facts - the accumulated real real product growth is the image that shows a certain righteousness because the incomeiest tithings have been given more or more proportionately, yes, that's relatively, but the highest. [[Up front.]] When you look at that picture, I think that evolution is on the road of some kind of righteousness. I want to be super nice and can tell you that I think everyone deserves a higher salary. Each person feels worthy, and that is how we should feel. Therefore, it is always difficult to talk about the groups with the lowest wage. That is why the proposals of the government are particularly directed toward them. But there is simply a need to find out how to gain the money, and then it is to find out how it is divided. [[The president calls.]] I can't judge it, and that's why I've also said that it's unfortunate when you can't even evaluate real demands because the debates also argue about who they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u171	Mr. President. Now it's not even right by the highest level. Minister I've asked her a lot of questions. I asked two questions: Do you think the lowest wage is fair? Do you feel that people expect higher wages? Then I asked, is there anything coming from the government? That question remains. If the cards had been kept more carefully in recent years, there would be more need than trouble at markets. Much of the welfare system has been dejected here. There have been more tax returns to the lowest paying people, such as child - welfare and growth reforms, and this is why there is a wide range of bridges. It's right next to the highest. A minister that, under normal circumstances, the labour market members could be allowed to negotiate this. That's not where we're going. Now it's time to settle for this neglect. Now the government has to get to the table better. Again I ask: What solutions will be announced?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u172	Mr. President. We're asking if there's anything coming from the government. Of course, these are the suggestions presented a few days ago. That's what the government's been working on for the past few months. There are a number of system changes in the tax system. We've already put a considerable amount of money on the children's welfare system, etc. It says that the cards had to be kept better. Still, we have a situation where there is little unemployment, financial power has increased, and when we discuss matters that may affect these groups most of the most clearly, of all discussion, that the housing issues are a major factor. Therefore, there is special emphasis on these aspects of government proposals. It is not only the state that holds that issue but also the local communities, and it is subject to what the rural areas of the country, and perhaps especially the city of Reykjavík, could have done differently, kept a hand in hand so that more apartments would simply be available for the market. All our actions, however, are particularly aimed at facing these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u173	A respectable president. Yesterday, representatives of the United States met with Iceland's Medical Insurance. At the beginning of that meeting, an additional amount of money, 150 million, was announced. K. which the budget authorized to the U.S.A. now for Christmas would be temporary and would not be an option to make a contract that could last longer than next year. Medical insurance contracts had information from the Ministry that a long waiting list was after services in walking departments and that was a temporary problem to be solved. V.E.G. A health minister has clearly instructed that the additional supply should not be used at all to buy a existing service. We've got some suspected temporary problem solved here. Of course, there is no waiting list for service in a walking department, and it is, in fact, very strange and serious to be held by the Ministry. Today, the government does not pay a dime for the U.S. walking services and has not done for many years. A long wait list, however, remains in the hospital service at Vogi. At that time, it was reported that the planned treatment of young people at the Land Hospital ◯ A university hospital would be funded by a cutoff to Vigs and a transfer of money to the National Hospital ◯ University Hospital. This would be a violation of the current Vogi service contract. It turns out that the current service contract requires 530 admissions to be valid, but it is true that there are about 2,200 in the Vogi account. The walking department in Akureyri has already closed. There are already a reduction of about 400 instructions. It is still this terrible opioid epidemic, the addiction in which we have not been brought up in the past. In the community, there is still a call for excommunication into the Gug. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Which way is the highest. A health minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u174	A respectable president. As we have previously seen in the exchange of words, why? The senator is so that if we decommissioned the budget, the General Assembly approved a special proposal for an additional budget for the U.S.A. It was reserved in the text that a panel of legal committees turned out to the council that the 150 million during 2019 C.E. were principally thought about walking. This was shown in a text. It is likely under both the long - awaited safety of both the management and the comparable services in Reykjavík, which have not been signed in any way. It was the will of the Generals, who were elected to release the budget and that is the will of the General Assembly, which is the guide to which Iceland's Medical Insurance has already taken up agreement with the U.S.A. About a question why. The senator's special cost of the management of children and young people who have an addiction problem at the National Hospital has been handed over to the hospital's department, and the next step is to find funds to start that operation as soon as possible. I hope we can do it this summer, but I really need funding to care for an important group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u175	Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I'm going to refer to what an actress named Kristín Þóra Haraldsdóttir said on the night she received the Edda Prize for her game in the film, let me fall where she gave an emotional speech and urged the authorities to do something about the drug addicts right away. I'd like to allow myself to plan on the legal and goals we had here before Christmas, when we agreed on 150 million. K. an additional advance to the U.S.A., was first and last to prevent the enormous problems created in society because of a waiting list for emergency treatment at the hospital Vog. I mean, however, that walking department will take over the individuals when they come from that treatment and that help. First, I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister may not agree with me that having this waiting list into Thew. In fact, we've all been calling to spend that list together. Second, there are some experts who can receive these young people into a Land Hospital at the highest level of a university hospital. Will the health minister be so frequent? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u176	A respectable president. First, just call on the Lizen that we do something right away. I agree that it is important to give our hands up against these most vulnerable groups. I want to point 'em. A senator is now scheduled to arrive on Friday at the Board of Management Board's Precinct that deals specifically with consumption space, which is a long line of resources to the damage to those using syringes. I hope so. A senator can cooperate with me in this regard. In terms of activity particularly for alcohol and drug users in walking departments, it has been a focus of AU, such as anyone dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems, that we have to offer a wide range of resources, including walking outlets. It is not necessarily a follow-up method but also a possible alternative for those who want to start with a walking department and want to enjoy the ministry in that field, and this has not been possible, but will now be done by General Assembly contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u177	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers but mainly as chairman of one of the groups that make up the government here. There's been a lot in the news since last week when it was the highest. The marine and agricultural ministers presented their proposals, a bill allowing the transport of raw meat from September 1 over a period of time. Of the news that has been received specifically from the forwarding party's camp, it is reasonable to assume that there are relatively doubtful of the measures that have been taken. At the end of the spring council, a marine dignitary and agricultural administrator is looking for real aid. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Of course, the secretary of transportation and rural management - although the group does not depend on it, it is the former agricultural minister and current director of the administration class - how this approach works. A marine and agricultural minister looks to the head of the Agency, whether or not he feels sufficiently successful in protecting the important interests involved. What does he see in his mind that it was possible to do differently? I caught it in an interview at the highest. A secretary of transportation that the case had not been established on the government board, but does he sees that it will be settled according to the bill that has been presented, among the governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator asks for an important subject. Like what? A senator came on to be the response to the European Commission's decision to bring, and I have a full understanding that is being made, on the one hand, on the Supreme Court's Supreme Court, which, of course, based on the opinion of the EFTA Court on the European Commission, the EFTA Court and the Supreme Court, the import of fresh meats is not about our ability to protect Iceland's farms resources, human populations and special status on the particular things that are unique but, in particular, revolves on the free flow of goods. So this assignment is twofold. It is now in consultation and will be given the opportunity to make comments before the minister responds and brings the bill both to the government and to the council. As candidates, we feel the need to respond with considerable intensity, but we may simply need to look at these as two matters. On the one hand, we are responding to the Supreme Court, which the minister is doing. It will finally come to the council to take it as firm as possible, as far as we can go, and I'm ready to go quite far there and interesting to take that conversation here. On the other hand, the matter of our public health of Iceland's own right to protect our individual and very special health and health status in Iceland, which we also have international commitments to, both about biodiversity and about the farms living here. The European Union has not given up on this part of the matter, and I think we should record it and do it at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u179	A respectable president. I have to admit to the highest answer. A minister seems to me to suggest that he is rather soft in this matter, especially if we look to the company he is chairman. There is much to say about this as a reason why people have come into this great crisis that they have not had the warning in previous stages. V.E.G. Minister was the Minister for Agriculture in 2013, in 2013,2016. Is there anything in that period as the highest? A minister thinks that it could have been better with that, with request for an exception, or whatever it may be, that would have enabled us to defend ourselves in a more powerful way today than the Minister considered possible, as I understood his answer? Was there something in the season 20131⁄2016 that would have been wise to do differently so that our situation would be stronger today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u180	A respectable president. I don't know if I'm soft, yes, maybe it could be a little harder. The problem is that we are dealing with the decision of courts that we need to find a way out. My conclusion is that we should look for ways to protect our unique position in matters of judicial matters. Right away. A senator asks me: " Could it have been different for me to have been there during the period of 2013 and in the course of the agricultural service? Then it would have been possible. When you looked in the rearview mirror, you might have been able to prepare the situation even more carefully. On the other hand, we went on those terms. I went to the European Union and talked to the superiors there, and we were protecting that we were defending this position. On the other hand, there was no hearing in the courts, and it was only about trade of property products, free flow of goods. I disagree that this is the case. We, however, need to respond to the Supreme Court. This is inevitable, and we need to do it here at the council. The minister must present as much an issue as possible during the council as possible to make it as possible. [[The president calls.]] However, the other project doesn't depend on us how we're going to defend this special situation, such as New Zealand. [[The president calls.]] I'm willing to talk much longer as...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u181	That's not an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u182	V.E.G. The President will not allow me to do that under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u183	President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services for the workforce and the responsibility of the government to it. I know it's the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs agrees with me on the need to ensure equal favor and justice to all members of the community when it comes to their standard of living. I'd like to quote the minister's words in the discussion of the Precinct for October, by permission of the president: ▪ Many now have the impression that the highest social law is paid and that both middle class and lower income groups will be left behind. Yes, there are children in this country who cannot engage in leisure activities, parties, and so forth because of their parents'low income. When such scenes remain to be found, there is work to be done. In recent months, the highest calls have been made to increase minimum wage, reduce the gap between higher and lower income groups, and ensure adequate benefits for all who live here. Actually, it's about much more than leisure time and Bar Mitzvahs. It's about that in this country no one has to live with poverty and poverty. So I ask, "Do you think it's the highest? " Ministers that the government has contributed enough to the better-than-late business to ensure that the upper class and lower income groups are not living here with poverty and poverty? Then it's clear of the changed title of the Minister to the Supreme Minister. The Minister of Social Affairs is specifically to promote the affairs of children, and I support him in the focus of this change. But a factor in securing the welfare of children must also ensure the well - being of parents. So I would like to ask a minister how he feels about the future and the well - being of children when parents spend their valuable time, time from their children, often in poor health, low - paying jobs, and even their end together, not being able to provide properly for their families. What effect does this situation have on this important group of subjects? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u184	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this request. My inspection since the release of the General Assembly on autumn days has not changed. It is of utmost importance that we contribute to the greatest equality in Icelandic society. How important it is that we improve the quality of the lower income groups, and how important it is that those in the top law take on greater burdens and are willing to do so! My opinion of that has not changed. That is why I am very happy that both the secretary of finance and the prime minister have agreed that it is important to take action on the rise in the pay of the bank managers, and we are waiting for information from the bank office on this matter. I've said it, and I'm behind it here that the suggestions or emphasis on improving the quality of the highest income groups are extremely important. But it is also important that we be able to do so so so that our economy will continue to move because we do not want to get inflation or inflation. The government has proposed a number of measures, not only in tax matters, but also 40 measures in housing that have been discussed between the government and the labour markets recently for further implementations that will include. has a very high impact on rent status and minimum income income. We have also had measures that involved social subsidies and that were recently introduced to a welfare committee by ten teams. We've said there are other cases that the government is ready to investigate, including... In terms of growth and insurance insurance and support to the first buyers and the payload for the purchase of the first estate. I'm going to get a better grip on it in the second, answer to me, how it affects children, but the government has introduced several operations. She is ready to perform more operations and to make more conversation, but in order to do so, unions and professional drivers must meet together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u185	President. In my second speech, I would like to direct two questions to a minister who should be simple, and I would ask the minister to keep explaining how this affects children and answer the questions I now ask. First, on February 14 C.E., regarding his comments in Castlight. As he discussed the pay raise of the company's executive interest in public property, it was likely that the government was involved. So I ask the highest. Minister: What about the decision of a chicken council for a raise in pay to members of Congress, Ministers, and high officials? It's under the roof. Minister reason to intervene? If not, what's the difference? Finally, I'd like to ask a minister of his comments at the ASI council in October. where he said that if a step could not be achieved, he strengthened the labor movement in placing capital taxes on the highest income of Icelandic society. Supports the highest. Ministers still insist on high income taxes, and if so, what stands in the way of his stress?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u186	A respectable president. I brought in my first answer that we should intervene in the highest pay in the public sector. That is what the government has already proclaimed, and both prime minister and financial minister have done. I also said that the pay under the board is freezing, rising and freezing. One thing that is willing to discuss is how to bond it in a way that allows them to qualify for general pay development. That is why a dresser's advice was canceled at the time. I've always been a spokesman for the tax system, so those with higher income have a heavier burden. As a result, one step increased, however, the government has already proclaimed, as I said, that there will be increases in the highest pay in the public sector. It is now in progress within the government how it will be done, and thereby the government is doing its part, I'd like to say, to bond with the highest income. [[The president calls.]] It is extremely important that it be done, that we be successful, and that we can better deal with the fact that there are not two nations in this country because it is not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u187	Mr. President. The importance of transport in the Icelandic economy today does not have to be varied. This important industry has been, can we say, the economic tractors in recent years and that others grew up to the greatest honor because we have done so well economically in the recent years. Over the past few years, the largest number of jobs have been reported. Indeed, it is noteworthy when governments take place and renew the policy of whaling until the next five years, apparently without much discussion in the community. Now it is well known that the interests of tourism are very rich because there are thousands of tourists here each year in a whale inspection but also also as those of the negative effects of whaling have on our image, our discussion of the international country, and thus possibly on the arrival of tourists to this country. In this context, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: was consulted with the highest. Minister for this decision at the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers? Was the matter specifically discussed in the government before this decision was made and had some consultation with the sector, the tourism, on this decision that can seriously affect the economy? And then perhaps the last question to the Ministers of this first round: Does the Ministers consider them to be sustainable, especially when it comes to considering that the price of these products is culminating in international markets and at the same time may have a serious negative impact on tourism and therefore a negative impact on the national currency markets? Is this a sustainable industry and a sustainable decision by the government to renew a policy of whale hunting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u188	Mr. President. A protocol published was made on the basis of scientific advice from the Marine Research Institute on Sustainable Fishing. That feature is viewed. Of course, in what process this work was being done, making the High School Economic Institute of Economics take a special look at it. That work song was accepted. This report was published in accordance with the Regulation. It is the work environment that was discussed. As a result, this decision is made. What convention of employment has been exactly done with a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-grit, but I know that some conversation has taken place. I dare not say whether it was a formal meeting or whether it was the initiative of a minister or the article or what. It asks whether the fishing is sustainable in terms of other aspects, economics, and this is a claim to have a harmful effect on tourism. I have so far answered, so I have never seen anything to show that this has harmful effects on tourism. There is no such diagnosis, but I wouldn't trust myself to claim it. Of course, I don't miss a discussion about the image of a country and some mass mails abroad from the fact that we don't agree with the image of the country that we're going to still hunt a whale. If people see their advantage in fishing, which they feel is sustainable and that they can do something about it, it is not my job to have some particular opinion of whether they are good business ideas or not. Based on travel assessments, there are no analyses demonstrating its harmful effects. That is why the red cord is that we are building fishing on scientific advice, which is done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u189	Mr. President. I can't say answer the highest. A minister would leave me with no particular belief that this was a good thing to do. The key element of sustainable development is economic sustainability and, in itself, fishing cannot be sold from non-sustaining economic fishing. It may well be that whales can tolerate that product of biologicality, but there is no purpose in such fishing if the product cannot be sold, so such fishing can never be sustainable. However, it is noteworthy that the government has not taken the time to evaluate the potential impact of whale fishing on tourism in a careful way in view of the huge interests the tourism might have on the impact of the fishing of the country's image and thus the arrival of tourists here to the country, particularly in view of the failure to make a decision about continuing fishing while nothing is going to sell the products anyway. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I don't believe anything but to the highest. A minister will try to see to it that such investigation is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u190	Mr. President. They're here asking me about my own hunting. They don't answer to me. And when it is not a good business idea to engage in such fishing, it is to say that governments do not practice this fishing. I'm not going to sit in some court seat. If someone else thinks it's a good idea to go into such a business, they can do it. [[Up front.]] As I mentioned earlier, there has not been any evidence or analysis that this has harmful effects on the whole transport service. Also, I'm not going to say what it's like to do in general with marine life if we risk these fishing, other institutions, etc., because I'm not an expert in that kind of thing and I'm not responsible for that sort of thing. It is easy to take a closer look at the impact of tourism, but there are factors that affect people's image, and there are other occupations that travel would likely be in order not to practice, and vice versa. [[The president calls.]] Again, I say this decision is made by a marine economist and agricultural minister on the basis of scientific counseling and that is what really matters here. [[The president would like to ask that we not engage in conversation as the speakers deliver their talks and, most important, verbal matters when replying to them.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u191	V.E.G. Mr. President, I direct my inquiry to the highest level. Health Minister, but I would like to ask you about the state's agreements with medical professionals and physical therapists on the other hand. Of course, as a minister knows, a contract between the state and the specialists ran out on December 31th. But the importance of their health system, hopefully, is clear to all. In 2017 a specialised physician was introduced according to the annual report on Iceland's Health Insurance of 477,977. It is obvious that hospitals and clinics are in no position to take this assignment. You see, it all has to be worked together. I know the highest. The health minister wants to approach the whole thing, and it's important, because the interests of the sick, the interests of the sick, are the ones underneath. These are the priorities of the health - care system and therefore the preparation of the management form is very important. Of course, it follows innovation and a faster development, as well as that young doctors may see their best interests in returning to different working environments, where they have the opportunity to work in different places permanently. All of this works, so I'd like to ask you what government contract goals are about negotiations with specialists and physical therapists. What will the State accomplish? Is there a real negotiation now? If so, when is the goal of signing a contract? V.E.G. A minister issued a Regulation on December 28th. to reimburse the services of independently functioning specialists who work without a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. That Regulation applies to March 31st. rapidly approaching. Does a minister realize that contracts will be reached by that time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true in her case that there is now a reimbursement order to medical physicians, and how glad I was that Iceland's Medical Insurance and Experts met the common concept of having the remuneration take over by the patient's lack of awareness of the change. According to my records and sources, there are discussions with specialist physicians. In fact, it is being based on specific main points, perhaps first of all, that health care is integrated and continuous at all levels of service, based on a universal health policy. What we have been considering mainly in this regard is the importance of extending patients to expert services. Today, as far as it is concerned, it is up to that chance, depending on each source, especially the population of the country, on specific characteristics. Experts in medical institutions outside the capital area may be provided by specialists who are active in medical institutions but may also be provided by experts who are in contracts with the SI by contracts with specialized hospitals or in distant health care services. I agree with it. A senator says that it is important to have a wide range of resources, but the main point is that the availability of a country's population is to ensure that the services of a particular element are performed. I mention, for example. Ophthalmologists, pediatrics, psychiatrics, obstetrics and gynecologists, etc. There are over 30 specialities, and the overall nature of the articles most important is that all the public have access, and that is part of the contract objective. I'm here to negotiate with a second physical therapist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u193	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The HCP for the response and for the importance of this not affecting patients and the availability of a bioavailability. It is just a variety of resources that will not be guaranteed unless the contract is completed. I hope, therefore, that I understand the right thing to the highest degree. Minister wants to finish them. Of course, with the physical therapists and what the minister may simply come on into a later answer, it is of utmost importance that all practical factors in this regard be well - thought - out. The rehabilitation of their physical therapists is of utmost importance, and a number of them take advantage of that service, 50,000 people in 2017, which are a glorious number of people here. If we do not make sure that the agreement is reasonable, it can affect our system in many other places. What is the closest of contracts with physical therapists? I hope that we all agree that it is unacceptable that these classes will not be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u194	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator and we also agree with experts that it is important to complete contracts. Conversations are at hand, and it is a common goal for a person to decide. I'm optimistic about this, but it takes time, of course. The situation may vary. That is not one thing for all, and we need to have patience about completing it. In terms of contracts with physical therapists, the policy of contracts is still in a conversation between the Ministry and Iceland's Medical Insurance, where the contract was extended. I agree with it. One senator says, that we do not yet fully understand how much training replaces another treatment, including when talking about medicines that can cause dependence. Then we have been pointing out the importance of having more options to play in the case of long - term tasks for filming. It truly contains one of the factors that can penetrate it. It is one of the views that will be there at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u195	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Tourist for participating in discussions about tourism status. As we have seen in the news over the past few weeks, for various reasons this article has taken on a reduced number of foreign tourists in Iceland in 2019 for the first time in years. Travel services in Iceland have long since become the largest export of Icelanders, and they have also produced a large number of jobs in recent years. Clearly, then, tourism is important in the modern economy. In fact, many have gone so far as to say that the tourism service has actually saved the Icelanders from their last economic problem. Of course, there have been problems with growth as rapidly as has international tourism, but there have also been many opportunities. So far, we've done pretty well to grab them, but as mentioned, it's a bit of a flash. An open meeting with Iceland's Secret Bank of Economic and Business Commission last week showed that the prospects for export growth have deteriorated, where a significant effect has been reached. Then there has also been an impact of uncertainty about airlines and is expected to decrease by 12% in foreign tourist arrivals in the country during the first four months of this year from the same time each year and decrease by 2.4% in the overall year. Already it is clear that Istavia's projections fail, but five.5% fewer foreign passengers passed through the Cheflavor airport than they expected in January. The executive director of the travel agency says that tourism can meet the decline in the arrival of tourists in Iceland for one year. However, it is clear that companies in travel services do not tolerate many people who have high pay rates and still cause problems for the Icelandic government. There are many other concerns. For example, a demand for Iceland as a destination has been shrinking and less likely to be searched for Iceland on search pages such as Google. Doing so helps the best of decisions. The government of continued whaling not. The fact is that because of external circumstances, it is much slower or even backward in some instance to increase the distribution of tourists in Iceland, something we should easily change by opening more atrial into the country than by increasing national markets and other infrastructure. In this context, I would like to remind you of the inquiry by the deputy council member, María Hjálmarsdóttir, to the highest level. Travel secretary for the marketing of national destinations and the role of the market room from 25 October. but that request remains. There are other things to do and work for. For example, it is necessary to work against a black illegal activity, against those who do not pay taxes and duties, and even practice social subsidies as well as to ensure that the competitive status of tourism is not wrong, e.g. When it comes to rooming. In this context, we do well to consider the results of the present musculoskeletal system. As we have, we do so in supporting this industry in the same way that we have, for example. were they made in the fishing field? Similarly, in view of the national interest of tourism, we must better monitor the interest rates of the article and be more aware of them in national and financial forecasts. But it is not that everything is black, in fact, on the contrary. Here, a strong and powerful industry has been built with varied jobs that earn large currency and certainly have the opportunity to continue doing so. But we need to pay attention to this article, especially at such times. So I ask the highest. Minister: In view of the challenges that the article faces, what actions and measures do ministers consider to be appropriate in order to promote tourism? Tells you the highest. Ministers have reason to further strengthen the work of the part of the country in promoting their marketing of building infrastructure? Finally: What is the Ministry's policy on foreign enterprises in tourism in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u196	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking the initiative in this discussion about the situation of tourism. It is true that such materials certainly have a flash of light. A passenger's prophecy of Istavia reduces the number of foreign tourists by more than 2% per year, and the first figures proved to be considerably worse than the predictions. A significant reduction in air supply has been observed, and uncertainty has continued in the sector and the workforce action now particularly directed against travel services. Tourism is a fluctuating industry in its nature, and evolution depends on many external factors that governments cannot always influence, to form political and economic conditions in other countries, global oil markets, and such factors. Despite today's flash, long - term prospects in this article are good. The United Nations Travel Organization predicts continued growth during international travel. The Agency's long - term predictions allow annual growth to be on average 3.3% through 2030. Iceland's image is strong and international currents and policies support the continued popularity of the country as a tourist attraction. In addition to the health and well - being experiences of people in the North, the advent of adventures and safe destinations are increasing in nature. When questions are asked about measures to strengthen the article, what are our priorities in order to strengthen and strengthen the article, and we will continue to do so. A guide for travel and transportation to the 2015/2020 community was responsible for the road and is still valid. A list of projects is a guide, and it is going fast and surely in good cooperation with government, rural society, and the article. The structure of the infrastructure is much more and more specific than we have ever seen. The parks are getting stronger. The lack of data and bioavailability is much better than before. The strategy of the national part of the country has been established. We're strengthening the research program of a travel agency. Security requirements have been increased. Air development fund has begun to produce tangible results in direct flights to Akureyri. Homemaking efforts have been taken to reduce the misuse of the shared economy at the cost of legal employment, and this may be considered for a long time. These are not emergency measures. They are normal structures in the environment of one of our largest and most important sectors. In this regard, a proselytist refers to the country's territory. So it is to answer that the country is like we know a key factor in our actions. The infrastructure, the Air Development Fund, contracts with the markets, national programmes - all of this particularly points to the country. Then there is the setting of increased energy on a road, which, of course, is essential to this goal. Regarding the activities of foreign companies in the European Union, it is clear that companies from the European Economic Area are generally free to work here. Of course, foreign companies are obliged to operate in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to them. The Ministry of finance has reported a good deal about the tax obligations of these parties, but that film is not quite simple and there is no secret that we can do much better to follow the rules, with surveillance, and possibly even with tight guidelines. The organization of tourism has recently examined these matters that I celebrate and will take a close look at when that work is finished. The important thing is to identify carefully what you can do, what is in the EEA Convention, and any non-law activities that we look up and then need to monitor around and/or potentially tighten the law so as not to comply with the rules in this society. In this regard, I would also like to mention that the Ministry is in cooperation with OECD for so-called competitive assessment of tourism as a profession. It is a huge project funded, which is about to improve the future working environment of the article. A respectable president. I'd like to finally say that it's not right sometimes, that Iceland doesn't have a travel policy. In force, the decision to make travel to 2020 is to be made by a synonym, as well as to 2020. We now have a review of the long-term policy at the transport centre. The first steps are to shape a vision of the future and a guide, as well as a careful stress evaluation of the well - being of the interior. I thank you again for the discussion, and I look forward to hearing members of the council, and I will respond to what is presented in the afternoon, even if it is only a short time. Finally, I would like to say that this is the basic occupation of the nation, which we must protect and strengthen, but make sure it is done on the basis of sustainability. And because it was also referred to as marketing, I think it is important that we look at the fact that the public market always weighs less and less in the big context. There are 2.2 million tourists, or what they are, and they always see more and more about the market in Iceland. I come into other parts of my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u197	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. This is a growing industry, very important in Icelandic national development, and it is important that it be discussed at the General Assembly. I think it is very important to promote research in tourism and to use the results of such research to lay the foundation for the development of this important article, which has become a great source of income and currency for the Icelandic population. In travel services it should be emphasised on the sustainability and tolerability of tourism, the article being profitable and leaving footsteps in the natural world. The quality and safety of the tourism service should be emphasized above all. This link I would like to take into consideration particular points that I have had the opportunity to discuss before with the Supreme Court. Minister, but it's legal protection on the job names of guide. I believe that there is a minimum requirement for study in this study, which would be the basis for such protection. Then, too, I would like to mention that it is not normal to be on trips that are particularly tested by local knowledge, knowledge of weather, and other factors that require that an Icelandic guide be on the move. Of course, further development might be made in terms of such a requirement, but I believe that such a requirement should be general with these opinions on quality and safety. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u198	Mr. President. This is where we're asking if there is a need for a greater Icelandic tourist service. To answer, she is already very large and powerful. First, my opinion was that growth was too fast. Now there is a temporary decrease in the number of tourists and a slower growth ahead, but it is not long before we see 33/4 million tourists in Iceland. The question, then, is the question to increase the number of guests or to improve the number of services, as well as the number of them? I think the key elements are the ones that have been identified in the case of people, i.e. The sustainable development, the three-item sustainability we're going to be talking about, and I think Icelandic tourism is not now. It's economicly sustainable, but hardly in the other two areas. So when it comes to growth, the matter is about the diversity of the analysis, and the access control, both regional, local, and national. The element lies in these two or three passwords, i.e. Self-sustaining, quality and mass management. It's all in the spirit of sustainable development. Throughout the market and infrastructure, I'd like to say there are some things missing. There is no current travel policy, there is a lack of a country plan for tourism, which is expected to be in progress, and then there are national destinations. All of this needs to rhyme. When it comes to these and foreign matters, we need to consider buying a country. There must be new rules, so I mention it as well. Finally: Travel services must submit to the same attractions, conditions and limitations as to other employment practices. It is an important source of community lift, but it must not swallow any other branches as alive as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u199	Mr. President. A few years ago, when traveling overseers began to grow, it became clear that this was one of our biggest and finest building articles at the time. That's important to us. That growth contained a special opportunity. We have the opportunity to create a new basic article, and it is not every day that such opportunities are given. This made it a responsibility for both tourism and government companies to provide well for their support. It seems that much of the time had been wasted and that was not well developed, too much emphasis was placed on large investments in what might be called luxury projects that have actually sped up all around the tourism service in a way that makes a fall if growth does not continue indefinitely at the pace he made. This has become a problem because the size of tourism is enormous. This is about one-third of our economy. In contrast, in a country we think of as much of a tourist country, the transport service in Spain is only about 13%. Such a size creates a risk, so I believe that at this point we both need to nurture the support that was not being done well at the start but at the same time, we should do the best we can for the tourism that is releasing it from the responsibility of being the largest industry, i.e. developing new employment practices and trying to contribute to more diversity so that the problems that may be created as a result of less travel gain will be less national problems and can be solved within the framework of tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u200	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Furbífjörður Elisdótir had a discussion about the situation of tourism and the highest. Secretary of travel, Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, for her input. The situation is sensitive, and there are factors that affect it, international economic prospects, oil prices during the past year, and less air supply. That, in fact, is the case. in the current national interest forecasts expected to decrease the growth of export in transport services during the year. On the basis of the importance of the industry for the Icelandic economy and employment, our largest professional sector measured in export prices, it is only natural for us to consider such questions as why. The perfunctory will place on the program how we meet challenges to further the work. In this context, it is important to keep in mind the characteristics of tourism as a industry and what aspects of demand are involved. Iceland as its destination consists of a number of factors that form an offer that affects the demand of tourists. There are three main features of a job travel service. First, the demand for seasons is swinging. It also includes investments, which include high costs and tourism stakes on one another through marketing and attraction. The fact that tourism is a low-paying way around the world is a competitive position in the light of collective agreements. The government must ensure safe transport and establishments that are useful to information, cooperation in building core services and the launch of Iceland as its destination. Things have been moving toward better things in the past, such as the highest. Minister came on, in both institutions and policies, in the process of processing and in force to 2020. The fact that may be the most important and that is about to come up with most is the need for cooperation between all the partners involved in the job industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u201	Mr. President. There is no question about the positive effect of tourism in recent years. It has moved the economy up with the growth of the economy, the increase in jobs, and the positive effect on commercial life across the country. It has no less had a positive effect on our service, the people of the country, which is the result of much greater variety and better than ever before. There are many things that have been done well, and there is no reason to draw feathers over the fact that much has been done well by the highest power. Minister and government in handling the challenges that have come with this rapid expansion of the article. But there are two things I worry about, and of course it always is. The public has a very limited ability to shape sector policies. They develop according to the current demand and are difficult to predict on the part of the government, as the cases repeatedly show. And, of course, the article itself must have set freedom in evaluating where the branches of growth are, where the opportunities are. However, there is something that governments are responsible for, i.e. to create the setting for the article itself. In the case of the tourism agency, the elephant is in the room, as it were, the public company, Istavia, and the course it follows. There must be criticism of e.g. The company's forecast is not more reliable than it is, that we are already starting a year at the second or third review of that forecast. It is the basis for all the conclusions presented in this article on building and what offering can be expected. There's got to be a big fix. But then the latter must be viewed, which, of course, is the instability that our currency creates for us and, in particular, the sector of this, which is extremely sensitive to gang swings. V.E.G. Minister. Is it not time to examine this currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u202	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir for starting this vital discussion and the highest. Minister for joining us in it. It is true that the tourism industry has become one of our greatest interests, our largest commercial means. It is very good to discuss how we have so far taken care of how to distribute our tourists through the country so that they can all enjoy it. But I feel that all I can do is discuss the seriousness that we now face, the seriousness of our traveling work. This is a frontal strike, and so on, which should only be directed toward tourism. How serious such actions will be for tourism and the entire economy, we do not know. I think the government's responsibility is very high. I think our responsibility here, the legislature, is also a tremendously strong thing to try at least meeting the demands of society and trying to protect our important resources from the tourism industry. Already it is discovered that people are off the road. I challenge the government to really protect our tourism industry, allowing us to keep up our pace and build it up as we have thought and wanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u203	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for starting a discussion on this important and survival party. There has been an unprecedented increase in the arrival of tourists in the country during the past eight years, but there is now a flash of sky and some appearance of a setback or at least Slowing the current down. There's not a hundred people at risk, and now we're supposed to use the air space to think our way and put new lines. It is especially important for this nation that is quick to seize opportunities, adapt to changes, and fluctuations, a nation used to run the sea, to take advantage of hooks, and to cultivate short - term growths, as well as to accept the absence of the fish, and to be ready to row again. We need to develop long - term stability thinking, organization, and provide a basis for tourism to become a viable field for ordinary people, that people can survive the pay given by tourism after a normal day's work. It's not today. We have put emphasis on getting passengers to the country through one portal, Cheflavík, and our foreign guests will not enjoy the whole country unless they are limited. A respectable president. We need to stress more portals into the country, but I think many people think that there's obstacles in this country. They're all over the place. I'll mention the airports in the North and East as opportunities, Westland, and West with their special status, there's an abundance of possibilities, but easy transport is a key factor. Normal distribution of tourists across the country can create a structure that has been possible for the population, and we actually see its signs in several places. Travel services have become a key part of the country and the source of intelligence and income for a number of people and businesses. However, governments are devoid of resources and determination, allowing time to pass, and allowing billions of dollars to go into the income of tourists, the income needed in the infrastructure in all areas. [[The president calls.]] We need to take care of our national situation and make it a better place to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u204	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the advocate for this discussion. Travel is the largest industry in the world, it has been that long, and it has grown dramatically in Iceland in recent years. Today, the people's income comes from their tourism. In 2017 it was for the first time the largest industry in Iceland, 8.6% when the fishing road was estimated to be about 8%. I don't want to know about the figures mentioned earlier, that it was one-third of Iceland's national production. I don't think it's so high yet. I think we have quite a chance in many areas just to improve the basis for so many of our tourism activities. The flight is always the basis for travel, so it has been, and will be where 98◯9% of all the foreign tourists coming to the country are flying, and in the Norwegian square they arrive, they arrive at the land of Sufjörður. Then there is still little to go through the Akureyri airport and the Eglial Airport. It is what we look at, in the coming years, that there will be improvements to the idea that there will be a better distribution of tourists throughout the country and a higher level of airports in the North and East to provide the conditions for the better distribution of foreign tourists throughout the country and throughout the year. The major objective is to better distribute tourists throughout Iceland and over all seasons, throughout the 12 months of the year. This was a long marketing campaign called Iceland all year long. What I always called was that everything would be in front of me, the slogan would be, "All Iceland all year long." It was no more complicated for me during that discussion. This is the same story as usual, two minutes is just too short in a special discussion. [[Up front.]] [[Step forward: Change the clock?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u205	Mr. President. I thank the founder of this discussion and the highest. Minister for being here. Travel is our biggest business route, that's what we've been doing here. There is no particular indication that the number of passengers who were 2.3 million between February 2018 and January 2019 is at hand. Iceland has the world's major destinations in major world media, CNN, and others. The role of the State is to create a general framework for this business and clear guidelines. As everybody knows, e.g. the first six months ago, the operation of unscheduled lodgings is announced to be a special effort that ended in the middle of the year, a natural gal. Because one part pays all expenses and the other doesn't so much as we've seen, it's probably the largest single part of a black economy in Iceland. Of course, these matters need to be addressed and kept under control so that people sit at the same table. Our international airports, especially Akureyri and Egls, are also resorts to Keflavík airports and are not just for the spread of the country's tourists but for the safety of all. Nor do we care how we view things. The use of hotels in January is e.g. 75% in Reykjavík, 11.7% in the Orient. Of course, we need to create conditions for the whole land to depend on. Of course, I restate that the state or government at any given time must create a general condition here. And I have to say that the government's introduction now to the tax agreements is not to prevent a major conflict in the lowest paid people working in the tourism business, which can damage the article very much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u206	Mr. President. In recent years, it has certainly been a great success in the traveling work. It has had a high impact, has grown stronger, capital has been absorbed in the construction of tourist places and hotels. A great many positive things have been done in a wide variety of international tourism services, which also include black sheep that escape taxes and have social subsidies, thereby misplace the competitive status of other companies, and cheat on the system, as shown by recent examples in the rental business. The growth is slowing down, and in this regard, I'm concerned about the country. According to analyses, visitors have taken a short spin from Keflavík, and fewer visitors are attending remote areas such as Kefavík. West and East. Now, as growth is contracting and larger companies are swallowing smaller ones who are unable to cope with this recession. According to the Habitat Institute, last year's tourism business progressed compared to 2017, and it is going to be the same year. Based on the Habitat analysis, tourism has become the largest commercial vehicle in all parts of the country other than the Western world, where the fishing road is still at the top. Many areas need much more infrastructure in order to accept tourism, and the big question is also: What is the nature of the country? We have scientific advice for resource use in the ocean, and carrier resistance limits for fish farms, but do we have some carrier resistance to land? What about carrier resistance to areas in which there is a major threat? [[The president calls.]] I think travel and government would have to look into it and try to control the areas that are more tolerant of tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u207	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elisabeth for this discussion. Tourism has become the largest highway in the nation, larger than the fishing road, the silver sea, as has sometimes been linked to the seabed, which has grown and prospered because of the fact that we live on an island. In some ways, the same can be said about travel. We live on an island, one of the most beautiful and unspoiled natures on a global scale. This rotten nature is our greatest act as a nation. It is a resource that is self-sustaining in its nature, and protecting it is actually activated, by permission of the president. It's like the highest. A travel and industrial minister self-invented when tourism in its nature fluctuation. There are many factors that cause, including reputations and facades, the decrease in tourists, as we have expected and seen, and must also be mentioned by the currency in this context. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson came in earlier, the currency is unmotivated that he is causing great harm to himself alone in this nation's largest industry. It is a responsibility for the government to look at it with open eyes and informed eyes and to do something about it. That should have been done long ago, but now we look to the future and must do something about it. We live on an island, so we're sold out. We're dependent on air transports, like whatnot. paritaprevir Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson came in earlier, and e.g. World market price on oil. [[The president calls.]] It's about time, and I hope to the highest. At least a minister thinks about setting anchor on our swinging currency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - And yes, two minutes is way too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u208	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for starting this discussion and the highest. Minister of staff answers. In less than a year now, this is my special debate for the distribution of tourists, and it's a good idea that we regularly consult the tourist service at the Assembly Hall. Tourism is a flash, and there are a number of things to think, as we have seen here. Even if there is a shorter period of time, there is no need to give up. in the marketing of the country. Global travel is also growing. This is the question of who we want our share in sustainable tourism. I'm going to look at the launch of cold areas that are far away from the Cheflavík International Airport, areas that are in more than four hours of driving from the southwest corner, areas where road service to winter is less efficient, areas where tourism is still very seasonal. These are mainly areas in the West, North and East. There have now been other destination plans for the part of the country, and a travel agency has arranged agreements with the market to support certain aspects of the follow-up of those who are necessary and good. We take constant steps toward the road, but there is a lack of policy in the marketing of these colder areas. Can we go to the market rooms of the parts of the country that are treated by the smallest of our societies and the weakest growing companies in the tourism service taking the responsibility to distribute tourists and market more than half of the country? V.E.G. Minister. What cooperation do we need in the market in the cold areas? [[The president calls.]] Do you need direct donations for financial contributions? And what's the role of an Iceland lab?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u210	Mr. President. I thank the advisor and the highest. Ministers for their introductions as well as for other members of Congress. That's a very interesting discussion. There is no need to increase the positive effects of the growth we have experienced in travel services over the past few years, but it is quite clear that this large number of tourists has put great pressure on the endurance of nature and its inhabitants for their tourism services, such as the travel minister's report on the tolerability of tourism discussed here at the council. It was a good fall. We also discussed the pressures of sustainable tourism, the quality of the service, etc. Of course, years of discussion and emphasis, at least In word, on access control, whether to use and in any way, little or nothing has been delivered. The conference of travel under the continuous leadership of the Independence Party has not been able to decide on what to do, whether or not allowed to be paid at the most popular resorts owned by the State for the management of the environment, whether to use charges, whether to use natural passes, or above any other form of currency to control access, to reduce the pressures of individual tourism and at the same time finance important tasks relating to travel services such as protection and construction, distributions, transport structure, increased variety in the service, etc. Now we're standing here discussing how we're going to deal with coldness in tourism, we who didn't finish dealing with overheating in recent years. Of course, the correct response to both of these challenges is well - thought - out, well - thought - out. Access control is a little special word. It is not that we are going to direct the authority of each tourist. Rather, it is a matter of government involvement and guaranteeing that all regions, such as the so - called cold regions, areas that have not reached dangerlines and areas that have much to offer, can compete on the basis of the same region as other areas that have reached the limit of endurance. Then I come to what I would like to finish with, not later, when the bell sounds, because these cases have been discussed in the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] One of the important factors in this context is that Istavia's tenant policy is in step with the emphasis on the long term tourism interests. [[The president calls.]] It is important that the minister of travel attend the table. [[The president calls.]] I hope that the government will see things the same way and agree that we're going to travel services and we've got to get back into rhythms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u211	Mr. President. I would like to start this second talk by thanking you for this fine discussion and thank you again to the highest degree. Minister for the conversation. It is very important that we regularly take up a discussion of the largest industry in the country and pay attention to its status. The development of tourism in Iceland has created the new and important support of Icelandic employment, creating a wide variety of jobs in many parts of the country. We also owe much to tourism, but in recent years, coffee shops, restaurants, and shelters have grown, the structure of diverse destinations is larger and improved, and the amount of recreation available to Iceland should not be forgotten as much as does foreign tourists. Indeed, there are many challenges that must take place in the weeks and months to take. It is important that the State responds to the signs of contraction in this article to provide an increased injection in the market and research to support the article. To me it is clear that due to the position, the state must enter in with a greater weight than previously planned, e.g. with increased funding and increased market focus, but in addition, more favourably uses the current market budget. It is crucial to invest more in basic travel studies, providing the basis for sound decision making for both the government and the article. Mr. President. Today, we have the opportunity to respond to the predictable contractions of this article, both through the use of the breath that is available to build up the infrastructure and the supporting system and by placing increased energy in the markets and studies in the article. I sure hope to the highest. A minister seizes that opportunity in a conversation with the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u212	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, and I'm going to try to use these two minutes to get a few things together. To me, the big picture is: The number of tourists is not what counts. You can't say that enough. All our jobs need to focus on improving transport quality and valuables in this article. To do so, we need practical research and reliable evidence. We have done much about it, but we need more money in practical research and a careful consideration of what needs to be investigated. We need more reliable evidence and more of it. I'll take it, for example. under the heading of a mild word, it is unfortunate that the number of passengers in the country can be better evaluated. More portals to the country are the fastest and best way to distribute tourists. But I can't agree with what. A senator says it's easy to open more openings because we've been trying for years. True, we have some results, but it is a long - term project that calls for much patience on the part of those who are working at it, especially in the districts. Both Northern and Eastern countries had a special scholarship to do so last year, and they get it back this year. Hopefully, it will produce more results. Our country's image also counts, and our guide has to aim to strengthen it. There, I would especially like to mention energy exchanges. If we were to see that, e.g. To a large extent, the nation's rental car would be part of the country's image, and it could also reduce fluctuations, i.e. if we were not dependent on the import of oil and thus the swinging oil price. As to the role of the marketing firm, I see that they could have a more formal role in the marketing of the areas, and I'm ready to make a special review of that amount of money. I believe that's where the key is. We've already set out destination plans that show the national parts of the world how they want to see the development of tourism in their area, and now it's time for the induction. With regard to access control, there is no access control in the country. She's all over the place, for example. in the national parks, and not that it can be controlled only by currency, but it can be handled successfully without having any particular goal. [[The president calls.]] A gift, however, is a fine way to direct, but it does not work properly. If I had all the threads in my hand, things would be simpler than those of many resources and institutions, it's more complicated. We are, for example. with a public right that no one can quite answer exactly what it means. [[The president calls.]] As a result, it takes more time to make such decisions when it is necessary to prevent or charge territories owned by all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u213	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee to recommend a change to the bill to correct a change in the Cabinet Treaty, which is dependent on the specific restrictions and currency laws, i.e. national release and commitment to capital flows. This is 486th case. 968. The Economic and Business Committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as from the Federal Bank of Iceland. The committee received three reviews from Iceland's Federal Bank, Nasdaq Penitentiary and Gunnar Þór Gíslason. The bill is a part of government operations to eliminate capital capital capital capitals set up after the fall of Icelandic banks in 2008. On the one hand, it is suggested that CK therapy be based on specific limits, No. 37/2016, is included in the provisional regulations that require three types of permission to free so - called domestic property, which are restricted by law, as shown in Article 1. The bill. However, it is suggested that regulations for temporary III be made in currency law, No. 87/1992, with regard to terms of binding of cash because of a new foreign currency entrance. Aim for improvement in flexibility in the form of such bindings, including by allowing for binding duties, which so far has only been possible to meet with admission to an account bound, will be met by reimbursement through the Penitentiary letter as per Article 3. The bill. According to the bill's report, investors or financial companies who have fulfilled binding duties on the basis of current legislation and financial bills may be expected to alter the implementation of the bill in accordance with new implementations. In its review to the Committee, the Council emphasizes the importance of the submission of the bill before the date for the pay date of the individual government's payday, which is today, on February 26th. Otherwise, the amount of available property will increase by nearly 70%, or 25 billion, U.S. The review puts it this way: ▪ As this increases the risk of reinvestment in Icelandic bonds when their letters arrive on the day of payday on February 26 will be replaced by a search for a release from bank accounts. That will have two effects. First of all, the harbor bank will have to spend much more time in order to prevent disaster associated with deportation. Second, the growth of foreign funds in a domestic bond market will reduce more than expected at the time of the bill. Marketing markets have complained about the lack of such an offer in connection with the maintenance of capital charge into the stock market. This concludes with a direct quote from the review of the Federal Bank. The bank's comments to the Committee also point to the rendering of Article 1. The bill may be misunderstood as to how an exhaustive financial enterprise can impart terms and binding time to invest. This was not intended, as can be seen from the bill's report. In addition, the review points out that the c-joins Article 3. the terms and terms of terms and terms of terms and not just terms, as it is intended to ensure that the Bank is authorized to determine growth, prices, costs and other rules according to 1 mg. provision for temporary III in the currency law. The Commission agrees with the Sensitors'tips and makes appropriate adjustments. In addition, the Commission suggests that instead of the provisional regulations involved in this bill, there will be laws on the treatment of Croncies that depend on the specific limitations listed in 2 mg. 25. The law on which the Council Bank is authorized to establish rules on the implementation of various aspects of the law will be added to the provisional statute for such a warrant. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the committee's opinion. Sigmundur DavíðGunnlaugsson come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. A senator, was away from the case. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. The members of the assembly, Chemur the son of Víglundsson, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the daughter of Eymarsdóttir, the Ásgerður of Eymar, the Afur K. Gylfadóttir, the Bryndís of Brutti, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the Logi Einarsson, and Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u214	President. You're right. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says that I was absent because of malaise when this committee was finished, but that doesn't make any difference, because I've thought I had no way of signing that opinion. In fact, I find it rather unacceptable that Iceland's Secret Bank is setting up a fairly practical option for the council to handle this case today, or something very vague may happen. The bank's explanation of this doesn't make me feel entirely credible. It suggests that now, at last, when certain owners of bonds have been locked up in seas for 10 years, they will want to stay only if they are allowed to reimburse the bonds on that particular day. And then as far as I can see, at the same point, the National Bank feels that market officials are concerned that the small attendance of foreign investors will be at the Icelandic bond market for some time, but it concludes that it must be the ones who have been through the worst and who stay here for 10 years, who will be interested in investing in a domestic bond market. I can't quite get this to work, this explanation from the Secret Bank. You wonder, " Is this some kind of a trick to make this fundamental issue of emissions run through? ' Um... a vote and a three. Um... in one day. So I ask why. A senator whether to agree with these arguments of the Federal Bank, in case of argument, and to believe that as a result, they are not willing to go to this release because they hope that those who have been locked in here will want to remain. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u215	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is on the Economic and Business Committee. It has discussed the bill we are considering, first of all, when financial experts considered the subject of the bill. This date of February 26, was presented in their case, so it was not the only decision made by the second bank. Let us, though, leave it to each other. Then visitors were invited to a meeting, U.S. Sedlabanki. There weren't many envelopes, as I could, just three envelopes. And, in fact, if I was not betrayed, then there was a reason. paritaprevir Smuggled by Davíð Gunnlaugsson, a brief phrase to the bank manager at an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee last week, including the U.S.A. ... aboutthiscase. The answers given by the bank manager were relatively clear. I have to admit, I don't completely understand why. Senator. When the bill was measured here in January, but not in December as planned - if my information is correct, it was mainly delayed because of the opposition of the Central Party members that the bill would go to the committee before Christmas and receive Congress treatment. So it was in January. [[The president calls.]] Not one member of the party participated in that discussion, 1st. If the situation is as dramatic and as decisive as that of the dog. A senator likes to be let, I wonder if he should not have said the first thing, including in 1st. and members of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u216	The President still insists on what? Councilmen respecting the speedy timeliness that are clear to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u217	President. I must show them understanding. A senator should not try to identify the Council Bank's position, even though he published it in his committee party. Rather, he may have killed cases by talking about people's desire to set up this matter in December, not just the Secret Bank, which is also the Ministry of Economics. It's not surprising to me, to be honest, that it really is, as the report actually shows. However, when the members of the Central Party unexpectedly discovered it here on the last day of a council service in December to the highest level. The minister of finance wanted to slip in and through this matter, of course, responded. In that case, first the alarm rang. It is true that members of Congress who had planned to participate in this discussion were not able to do so in 1st. in January, when the case was actually taken through here while a total press display was going elsewhere in the House because of everything else. Once again, you wonder about the timing and timing of the situation. [[Up front.]] Anyway, I can hear you talking. A senator is not interested in trying to define specifically or explain this logic support of the Federal Bank, and I reiterate that I am fully understanding it. But you can see better than that the Scroll Bank thinks that the situation may not completely allow for decommission, unless things work out so hopefully that those who have been locked up in the seas will want to continue investing after 10 years of waiting in Icelandic government bonds. I don't feel comforted, and after this issue is resolved, I don't fall behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u218	Mr. President. I'm not going into a fight with what. A senator as to what happened here before Christmas, but he should be careful that he was determined to do so. The secretary of finance to measure the bill and send it to the Economic and Business Committee so that it could be sent out by the committee for review and then took the time needed to resolve that matter. For reasons not successful. A senator knows about it, and he was on top of it. But let it lie in between things. That is his right, and there is no reason to comment on it. On the other hand, I make a note of what is happening. A senator has since, after the highest. The secretary of finance spoke for the bill - I can understand that some had no room for participation in that discussion, in 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... at that time. But I can't understand, especially in the light of the fine cooperation that I and I have. A senator has been a member of a council hall, and especially in a financial and business committee, so far. A senator should never have brought it into question on the committee that he felt the need to consider some point of interest in the bill - not at one meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u219	How many times did you take care of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u220	- Three times, huh? Senator, at three meetings. There's always a chance, like a whale. A senator well knows, taking up all the cases, in addition to other issues of the Economic and Business Committee, at every meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u221	We'll talk about it. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u222	Thank you. A member of the Parliament and the chairman of the Committee for reviewing the matter. I'm only worried about what. A senator seems to prefer to join the man rather than the cause, thus forming a member of several other members of Congress here at the General Assembly. But I would like to ask. The senator, for it was revealed in his speech, as I understood him, that he would not consider this to be a very great matter, whether I have heard righteousness, that this matter is not very much to be done. I wondered, whenever all these issues have become big, how many billions below, what the price of dollars or euro needs to be when things are important. Of course, it's a big deal. I would also like to ask the senator if it is not one of the steps that were written in the plan of decommissioning the funds. Does the senator believe that this program is still being carried out, or does that program have been adjusted? I think it's very important for everyone to realize if there has been a significant change in the way one is going to process the controversies of the crash. I'm not gonna make any claims. The program adopted at the time, and the work was to be done, was very clear and powerful. Dates were written into it, and later written into it certain ideas about price derived from a certain amount of money and such. I ask a senator if he believes that this program has been fully followed and when issues have gone into effect, since he clearly does not consider this to be an important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u223	Mr. President. I'm going to hope that I didn't put things that way that it might have been understood that I don't think of this matter as moving. If so, let it be corrected. Of course, it's a big deal. This matter has to do with the fact that we are now taking one of the final steps to eliminate capital master. It was always my favorite. That's what it was for a government as a matter of course. A senator sat in the office as a minister and a what. paritaprevir The prime minister was Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. This is where it's being followed. To be honest, I'm really surprised that these two guys were out there. Congress members should not be among those who are happy to be taking the step we take today. This is one of the final steps in the delinquency of the past. Parliamentaries participated in and shaped, especially at the point. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the prime minister, took part in molding and producing remarkable results. We're just following it, taking the final step. I would have thought that little now should make more of these two good friends of mine, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u224	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the answers. I see why. A member of the council feels that the plan is being implemented. Then I'd like to ask the senator whether he believes that this is in harmony with the expectations of this step, i.e. how much money is worth for the amount of money being released, i.e. the expectations set up in 2015-2016, or in this whole process. Whether there may be some dissatisfaction among some members, including the ones listed here and possibly others, that we may be too little for the money. That the existing government and its members have given much attention to some form of contracts that were forced into which expectations were not met. Believe it or not. A senator is living up to the expectations for the decommissionment of the problems in the program? I'm going to ask the senator not to have any outbacks that these have been in the government and things like that. I'm just asking if he thinks it's going to be accepted. If I get this correctly, people have some expectations that because this is now being done, they will again invest in the Icelandic economy, businesses, and buy bonds, and something like that. Does a senator have any guarantees?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u225	Mr. President. I'm not going to have a way out of my way. Of course, I don't know what my expectations are. A senator had already been a member of the government and helped write the laws we are now changing, i.e. Law No. 37/2016 of national property. But when we look at it, it was clear that there were 319 billion national property. However, step - by - step, with emissions of funds, 84 billion are now happening. So we've taken from 15% of GDP to 3.1%. I think it's just a nice test of our success. I challenge it. A senator is entering the Generals' Web site and is listening to the verbal exchange between the bank manager, the son of Már Guðmundsson, and the question. paritaprevir The winners of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, including to see if there may be some of the leftovers in the country who have a lot of money. Because it seems to be the main cause of concern. That answer was clear. They haven't made a profit, at least. not until now. That's for sure. They have not benefited particularly from having their money tied on with little or no interest for all these years, for almost a decade, and no one can think that it is our intention here to tie men in the seas for 10, 15, 20, 30 years, which, of course, violates the international agreements we have made and what we have done. A senator knows even better than I know my former chief. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u226	President. That's strange. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is very complaining that the matter has not been discussed more than when a person wants to discuss the matter seriously in the 2nd. The matter, which is usually the main debate on the matter of Congress, is of little value in participating in the reasoning that I believe is essential to this matter. Just so I won't forget, I'm going to set things straight. Toward the end of his final talk, a senator said that people had lived under a lack of interest. In fact, in the history of the left government, most people were fed very well and were allowed to take them outside the oceans. But more on that later. You're right. The head of the Economic and Business Committee stated that what is now discussed actually began with a presentation of government emissions plans. However, this is no longer related to what was presented there. On the contrary, a total U-station has been taken in the current course. Therefore, I feel that it is appropriate to recall what the plan looked like in May 2015, especially as it was about the time we discussed these scrapbars. When government plans were presented, it was made clear that there were three measures. First, they turned to the fallen financial companies and stable taxes or to the stability of their productions. Second, the deportations, the case that remains unsolved almost four years later, have not been followed in the way that was suggested. And third, the procedure was about the physical economy, which was called, i.e. increased domestic freedoms, precautions and investment warrants. There's no doubt about it, like cot. In fact, the head of the Economic and Business Committee noted that the measures yielded remarkable results, so much so that no country has achieved as fast, economic reversal as Iceland after these measures were introduced and primarily through them. The above was a discussion of the important sector of tourism, the largest export of the country. The production of transport to the state and its economic situation is only a fraction, only 1/20 or 1/30 of what these measures yielded to the economic reversal of the State. In other words: Travelers would need to gather for at least 20 years in order to meet that comparison. This does not diminish the importance of this article, it is enormous, but it may show the importance of these actions. But then you must wonder, in view of the success of this unprecedented action, for all the solutions to this unprecedented problem had to be invented, but in view of its success. Why were people unwilling to complete the project as planned on the first day and to follow step by step, progressively, as a total plan until the spring of 2016, as well as a change in administrative matters at the beginning of 2017? Let's just figure out how this was explained in the plan at the beginning, the two parts, the Offensive. It was found that it was necessary to delete a guarantee because of deportation and that they were loans, government bonds, and bonds owned by foreign citizens. It was recognized, once more often, that a capitalist had been needed to cope with the problem, but the more important it would be, the right to lift it. A very big part of it--and this I come in several times below, especially in the light of the words why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee - would be dealing with or preventing what is called in English under these circumstances of the European Commission, and we call it in the Icelandic dessert. Do not allow anyone to see for his own benefit in not playing, allowing others to take on the cost, wait, and rely on them not to be compelled to contribute to their share, the desserts. It was taken particularly, both in the case of the fragments and in the case of landowners, who may be much of the same people, hedges, that it would not be ideal for a man to be left behind. It is important to make sure that in most cases the owners of these deportations are not the original owners, but they have changed their hands and are owned or owned by ten hedge funds or so. In recent years their numbers may have declined. Of course, those persons who bought their leftovers from the bank crash bought them at a discount because, as explained in all of this, debinos were no longer the same as regular Icelandic crowns. They had actually become another kind of currency, and much less can be done with them. As a result, they were at a different rate. It has been observed at the time that most of these partners sold their former landowners at around 300 k, at least In many cases this has been true. They bought it at that price, 300 bucks. A piece of land for one euro. Of course, the Icelandic crown was very different back then. But they also knew that they might not be able to expect to get a bank set for the Afghans they bought 300 of them for one euro. It even appeared in the books of these companies. Some of these show an overview, and it appears, in at least two cases, in the larger hedges, an estimate ranging from 190 to 250 k. ... ontheEurope. In other words, they assumed that the value of this money would be such that they could eventually buy a euro like 200 k. Had sold euros for 300 bucks. but thought they could buy Euros again at 200 bucks. The adapter. It was their food. And, of course, all other gangs other than the Federal Bank. Let us reinvigorate the government's presentation of the measures for the releases, through the two teams that were involved in the deportation process. That is exactly what it says: ten professional investors, hedge funds, most of the leftovers. The majority of national property is in the form of loans from foreign financial companies or in the form of marketable stocks and that after the induction of capital scaffolding, it became clear that deportations were the product of outlets. Then this with the interest money I mentioned earlier. It says, by permission of the President: Despite the general ban on the import of the Off-country, their owners were made possible to invest in certain types of financial gains and have some 70 billion dollars. has been divided into currency markets and paid out in the form of interest rent to an African owner. So they took 70 billion dollars. framed in the form of a interest bar before it was turned off. It is not as if they were growing without interest the whole time. This is a clear view showing step by step how to solve this aspect of the problem. Says the headline: ▪ The national novelist: Legions with auctions in currency and stocks sold in Icelandic kroner and euro by reimbursement process that conforms to the balance of payment. These are three teams and point A is a currency auction. Now I'm asking what. Councilmen, especially why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee to compare this profile with what happened. But I will do it for him later, too. ◯A. A currency auction. A currency auction in the fall. - It was scheduled for October 2015. --Charfors pay additional fees for outlets from currency capitals objectively at the currency market. The auction does not affect the Icelandic crown gangs on the market. Long-term State bonds B. Penalties to 20 years of age in a reimbursement process consistent with the long-term payment of the nation's population and outlets for the first 7 years. The terms of the bond will be determined by an auction plan in the fall. - In October 2015. - It's a different outlet. Another bond for a medium-time European Union Then it's C, interest-free bills. It underscores the importance of practical wisdom. For those who do not adhere to government conditions, long - term accounts will be locked up without interest. Four people get worse over time, making it an undefeated advantage for capital owners to permanently select interest - free bills. I'm going to repeat this last phrase: Kies will get worse over time and make it an undefeated advantage for capital owners to permanently select interest-free bills. This work was done by those who had directed work on the probationary course in consultation with Paul Klemperer, a doctor at Oxford University and, as it says here, has developed and directed the auctioning process for the England bank and the U.S. Sensitive Bank in recent years with remarkable success. I don't know what happened to Paul Klemperer after the change in policy, but the ways that were so gone are very different from what was set up here. It is strongly emphasized that the endability of her auction method must be ensured in advance: The approach ensures that all deportations will be restored and prevent desserts among Offland Owners. After the auction in October 2015, the conclusion will be 300 billion. in the Offland Islands will be permanently attached to an investment in Iceland or turned into a currency with an auction plan. This guarantees stability on the part of an African dollar. Those landowners who use the auction to offer their currency in exchange for Icelandic dollars will pay for that considerable pressure. They will carry the cost of getting out of currency and the auction system ensure that investors put first stress out of currency capitals. So, finally, here's what it says: The problem is assured: All free ends - a equilibrium between nation's interests and government action toward deportations. These cases were incomplete in the spring of 2016 when I specifically described them in all the interviews I went to, I think, when I announced that I would step aside as prime minister, that I did them least because I thought it was important that these cases be completed in line with what was suggested. That is why I wanted to be at peace with the government, and I didn't want any other ministers with me to go away with me while they could be confident that they would be working on this. Then, a little earlier than ever, a change in direction began. The money auction to be held in October 2015 had been delayed at the request of the Federal Bank, possibly involving the Ministry of finance, which was also involved in the year 2016. But finally on May 25, 2016, the Federal Bank announced that there could be a currency tender on June 16, 2016. It was presented on the basis of what it was done, and it was part of the complete government operations. Then came the most incredible story, which I think I must get to trace here, President, so why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee and other members of Congress could see why I'm not just coming up here to celebrate the completion of the plan. On the contrary, I'm explaining that, basically, people have basically disappeared from the plan and the damage caused by it is considerable and may now be taking the last step in that subject. The late bank introduced that invitation in May in the manner in which this invitation was made. If leftover business owners are offering more than 175 billion dollars to sell. and 1 K, i.e. if it were more than $175 billion - you would have walked $190, i.e. I'd get one euro for every 190 bucks. If the euro demand, after releasing through this tender invitation, was to be in the range of 05,50 billion, people would go out at 210 k. But everybody would get to go to the same gang. This would depend on the participation in the invitation. There, the bat was carrying for sale around 180 billion dollars. But what happened next? Yeah, Moody's, the credit balance company, celebrates this right away, and thinks it's time. The late bank reports this. And then the second report on June 8, 2016, that's all due to the date of the invitation and the rules. It is specifically stated that this is in accordance with the discharge plan or jointly involved. But the next day, after the Secret Bank says he's going to this auction and explaining the rules, something else comes up. In exchange for foreign currency, the second bank broadcasts a report on the change of tenders for the purchase of Iceland's Secret Bank in Icelandic dollars. It even hides. every once in a while. Here, in the media, people have communicated with the representatives of these so - called hedge funds, which despite their price assessment of their books were beginning to conclude that they could get something more out of the Icelandic government, such as the situation was developing, have experienced and noted the importance changes in politics. So the interest of sharing in this campaign is limited, and the steward responds by extending the deadline. Here, the natural hedge fund has further confirmation that these governments may be able to do better than they used to. What happens five days later, June 13, 2016? It's back: "Ups." The late bank announces that the terms of terms will be changed. This is likely to be to meet the hedge fund, for it says here - an amazing sentence -- as well as the absence of separation in 5. to offer less than 190 k. Three. The euro will be totally rejected.◯ In other words, the bank is announcing that there is nothing to rule out the rules set up and to 190 k. is the best price a man could possibly get. In effect, he is saying: " Well, you can offer something more convenient for you, and we will consider it. ' In other words, the whole system that was set up in the auction is about itself, and the credibility, which was fundamentally like a multitask when the plan was introduced, began to flow into the sand. That, however, was just the beginning. I have to ask a president to put me back on the rosary so I can continue this incredible story together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u227	Mr. President. Now it's clear to everyone that the State bonds party RIKB 190226 is running out of time today. So there has been a risk that if this bill does not pass through today, it can lead to some sort of losses for Iceland's economy and a government fund for a substantial amount of money, perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars, perhaps immediately tomorrow. Now it seems to me that the Central Party is in the middle of a lawsuit to delay the case, some evidence to suggest. It makes you wonder what the point is. In the 10th. The General Code says, by permission of the President: ▪ The Parliaments, where appropriate, should call attention to their own personal interests, which are relevant in the treatment of Congress. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress whether he now has, as he had a few years ago, as the international community knows, personal interests related to the handling of this matter. If not, I would like to ask: For what goals or interests are the middle class now trying to delay the progress of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u228	President. It appears that there are few limits to the repugnant state of Porta's conduct at the General Assembly. I think it's high time for a board of ethics to start talking only about Pirata and how they work, not just the mobster inside them, but also the way they treat other senators. Besides, which is the basis for questions. Of course, a senator is not a good idea, for he could not explain himself, as is the president of the Economic and Business Committee, in which perhaps tens of millions of harm for the country should be hidden, being fallacious. It's fallacious if it's the World Bank and the Ministry of Economic and Business Assessment's assessment that seas can be removed, that people will trust at the same time that those who have been locked up in the seas will still want to have the same investment that they have been committed to for 10 years. For if the goats are not removed, and they take up the separate thread, then the hedges can't move; then they sit firm. I certainly have no interest in keeping up with hedge funds, like a dog. A senator should be able to recognize. But I reiterate it, I think Pirata's career here at the Council of the Last Weeks, the past few months, and, in fact, a little many years, is below all the caves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u229	Mr. President. That's the legitimate question I ask, and I'd like it to be. Senator responds. They all remember that the man who spoke most of the vultures this year turned out to be one of them himself. In fact, in a press interview at the time, he admitted that there was a connection between a company that had been owned by Wintris and an off country. I don't know what the situation is on the land farm or the company Wintris today. There's nothing I can access. Maybe a what? A senator taught us to do so. But it is normal, and it is not a harassment to ask when it is famous that members of Congress have now or have had some connection in the past with a particular issue, whether they are still there. Especially when there's any danger -- I don't know how great it is, but it's unclear if there's any risk tomorrow because of this fire-out in the RIKB 190226 category. We know that there is a risk. Then it is reasonable to ask: " Since the middle party has become a seminary, who is it for? ' Who heals? Cui bono? As they sometimes say, by permission of the President. I can't see it in my hand. I don't see why we're going into this conversation, and to be honest, it would be most reasonable if we were to finish this case right now. Then we'd try to handle some other good things today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u230	President. The senator who spoke before me became guilty of murder. He lied and worked hard to label in an unpleasant image as he, unfortunately, and far too many of his companions, in recent years trying to maintain and enter people's homes. I've never had anything to do with a bunch of vulture funds, and neither have any of my relatives. True, my wife lost money in a bank when they collapsed and left most of it behind, like others who lost their crash. That walk of the day. A senator puts Pirata in new lows, thinks I'm here at the Council. Besides the fact that his theory is so historic, that it makes a conspiracy that by preventing the strongest hedges from being released from the head of the State, in some way it is being opposed to the interests of the State. What kind of enunciation is this? And how much more should we put up with those matters from the Martyrs? I think at least In this case, there is every reason to refer the senator's conduct to the Committee of Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u231	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator carefully reviewed this matter. Hv. A senator will only have to forgive me, but I don't fully understand what the senator and his band seem to be on this matter. That's exactly right, like what's wrong. A senator went over, that the government's plan for emissions in the spring of 2016 was strictly successful and was a key factor in supporting the emissions of capital waste without serious economic consequences for the nation. That was the main purpose of that strategy, not trying to do so in some way or to earn money from the demands, but primarily to ensure that those they wanted to go out with their money could do so under certain conditions, although the economic balance of the nation's population would be foreordained, its interests would go first. It's all worked out well. I suppose we would have been violating our commitment to free flow of capital if the purpose had been someone else. In this regard, the prerogatives of the government, that this capital could not be allowed out of the conditions that were then different from those of some discount, could not be replaced by the status of the people. Now, however, the situation is very different and hasty in this matter, as it were. A senator makes it a subject of talk, of course, only to see that there are about 25 billion now being released through the month - to - day sessions that will be unchanged but would be willing to invest in domestic stocks - we don't know anything about it in ourselves - if their environment had been explained. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to hear from what. A senator: Is that what matters? [[The president calls.]] Is it not a national equilibrium that is being sought to defend? [[The president calls.]] Is there any threat that this step is being taken? Or was it just about getting a good deal from the demands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u232	President. A key element of this, as reflected by many, was the fact that all of this would have to be left in the hands of the overall program. It could not be expected that certain persons who would benefit from recovery would do their part, while others would need to do the same. In other words, what is called the request for government publicity is something that must be prevented, that one cannot see the benefit of holding his hand and refusing to contribute to what had to come from all to justify the recovery of the traditions. The Icelandic people had already done their part. This was the key to the fact that the measures taken would take into account and would not be added to the public. But in the case of the fragments and those of the Offspring, all of them would need to be included. For example, it would have been impossible for one of the fragments simply to refrain from sharing in the release, not laying down the stability proposals, to rely on others to do so, and to benefit from the added benefits. Clearly, such a course could not be authorized. Hence, it was beginning to proclaim a stable tax that would be placed on those who did not agree to participate in stability. And, as noted here, the auctions and their arrangements were to reach the same conclusion, in other words, ensure that they did not do better by refusing to participate, but on the contrary, they were to see the benefit and need for participation. Hence, it is unnatural to prize those who did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u233	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, the matter is about the length: Free flow of funds is of utmost importance to us, both to free investments for us, to our pension system, as well as to the free flow of investments into the land that often matters immensely. It is very important that as a state, we have credibility that there are simply normal rules and laws to protect capitals and property as well as anywhere else. It is, of course, the commitments we have applied in international context. Of course, we made effective use of a particular emergency because of the unprecedented situation we were in, and I understand why. A senator was well - pleased with the way he handled that plan. Of course, those who chose to remain could have legitimate expectations that at some point they would come, undefined, allowing the national economy to allow further emissions of these problems. They took their chances with regard to the yield of the money as long as it was bound here and what success of the crown would be when they were finally let out. It's a risk. There's no doubt about it. The gang might as well have been considerably weaker if it were changing. That's not the case. It can't be credible on our part to announce that there should be some kind of budget held inside and that it should not be allowed out in a different way than taking on some sort of rotation. The operation was not about taking warp over the demands. The operation was about releasing funds necessary for a reliable cut-off of long - term currency spending in ways that would not be disturbed by national stability. We did it. There's nothing that's been said about that. A senator and others who have discussed this matter recently suggest that we are now facing some national threat from taking the next steps to underdevelop. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I don't understand the language. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u234	Madam President. It's just about credibility. It's about the credibility of the Icelandic government. What has happened here since the government's beginning to deviate from what was introduced as a plan would be accomplished is that, by its interest management in Iceland, man and woman could at least see that at least. to the counter of the contracts and to the more practical terms available than they had been. Finally, if governments are simply going to lift our head one side, we are by reducing the credibility of the government of the United States. Who will believe the next time the Icelandic government presents a plan and says: "This is how it's gonna be. It's a national matter, everybody has to take part, and it's happening on these grounds. But then, the day comes when it is not followed. It's not finished. I'm going to read it again. Because he specifically mentioned that people, those who wanted to wait, could have expected to profit from it. But the original presentation shows that there is a time limit and makes it an undefeated advantage for capital owners to permanently select interest - free bills. The matter was not followed, in line with this suggestion, but it kept seeing that the more they rebelled, the more they changed. This shows the history of the matter, as I will go on to see, and ends up in that the most stubborn, desserts are rewarded especially by the one - sided reduction of the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u235	Madam President. This case is truly about Icelandic interests. That is why we have every reason to discuss it. There's no disagreement, at least Among most people, that it is worthy and needs a goal in itself to eliminate a capital master. Of course, no one shares our international commitments, but it does not matter how things are done. In its core, this issue is about which gangs will be authorized to free the remainder of national property. No more than that. And the difference between the gang and what we can call the date's market, multiplied by the amount of money involved, is Icelandic interest. These may be very substantial amounts of money and are of great importance. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee traced it so well that most of the work has been done on this so-called African Scab, which is the word men chose for this phenomenon. He mentioned the figures 15% to 3.1%, and of course it's fine. The question, however, is: What is the need now to determine that this remaining 3.1% is to leave the country without the cost of these consequences, as mentioned in the government document and the Sentell Bank, any thing created? The document I have here is set up with a completely different plan. This is the plan of the government of Iceland and the Council Bank, i.e. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, which is the publisher of this paper on emissions of capital syrup, is presented on the front page as a cover of Iceland's Government and Iceland's Secret Bank on emissions of capital wastes by stabilisation and the stress of tax stability on broken farms and multi-selection tenders to ensure the balance and economic well-being of the nation's population. It's a long, good piece of paper and a natural thing to do. It's all right. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Davíð Gunnlaugsson has traced the core to its core, but there it is unquestioningly stated when dealing with payoffs, unreservedly, and without any apology, the managers insist on paying additional fees, as it is called, for going out of the currency capitals. And if this was thought to be the cause of 2015 for the demanding crews to pay extra fees for going out of currency capitals, what has changed since then for those who are the owners of these 3.1% of domestic product? I can't see that it's explained in this great bill that's already there. Then it's right there, like a snooze. A senator traced so thoroughly, much attention on the part of the government and the Federal Bank, and did not hesitate to use such words as an advantage. With the permission of the president, I am quoting this document: 'The best options: Locked accounts in the long term without interest for those who do not abide by government conditions. Do people notice the wording? Then comes the phrase: ▪ Time ebbs, making it an undefeated advantage for capital owners to permanently select interest - free bills. They'll see exactly how it's given up. Therefore, we are now facing the need for answers, assemblies, and nations, allow me to say. Why is this being done now? And why is this being done in such a way that it is disfellowshipped from the original thought in this budget? It seems to me that most men on this subject have described it as highly thought - provoking and successful. I think all fair men will admit it. Madam President. The financial collapse that we experienced before the fall of 2008 is at the root of the financial crisis. The World Cash Fund was called here to work by the government, which was the first Western government to consult the International Cash Fund from the time the British did it in the history of the Worker Party government in the '70s of the past century, secretary of finance James Callaghan, later one and another that I shall not care for to trace to, but the last country to call the World Bank Bank of Great Britain. This plan, if you remember, was combined by three main factors involved in the financial affairs. It was natural to bridge that awe - inspiring slope. One of the factors was to adopt the head of a currency exchange, and that is, of course, what we're dealing with here. What's remarkable about it, and it's odd that there the World Bank Fund went off in very important details from its earlier market policy in national activities, a member of the Member States. It may be right to guess, speaking of member states, that Iceland is among the founders of the International Cash Fund, 29 countries that founded the World Bank and the World Bank in December 1945. We had a representative at the Bretton Woods conference, U.S.A., where the new economy in the Western world was determined and is of this great and important story. Then, as people know, we have to deal with this collapse. The collapse, as you know, had serious consequences for the home and business of the country. I will not belittle the challenges of the government that was being dealt with here from 20091⁄2013. Nor can I deny that there were times when a man might think that it was not sufficiently firm against foreign sources. It seemed sometimes as if it were enough that a man with a nervous bag like it was called in a stuck-up suit, I don't say crown clothes because Einar's poet's Einar Már Guðmundsson is sitting here in a side room, but it was like men stepped in their knees and men were a little slacked at the time, I must let myself say. Part of the World Bank budget's budget, this economic plan that was set up there, was that it followed a missing loan, and that loans, as one remembers, were borrowed from the fund itself, while the other was the added funds to which the North countries contributed, including our dear friends and brothers in the Faeroe Islands, and then our friends, the Poles. They may remember that there were a number of things involved in this strategy at the level of the International Bank of Credits and Icesave countries, the two Britain and the Netherlands, it seemed to be the position to try to block the natural progress of this case at the level of the World Bank. To this day, I have asked myself what kind of counselors the Iceland government really enjoyed in this case. There were persistent interviews with the minister that the World Bank Fund was like this and gay because these two countries put up with the natural progress of the economic strategy we had undertaken in the Icelandic government, through the International Bank ofment, on the basis of a agreement with the financial programme. And it was made clear that these Member States set us up, which is as if there were nobody around this government to show her that the World Bank is a legal institution and operates on the basis of a covenant that has a sort of constitution value for this important, dignified, and significant international institution. The International Cash Fund's common agreement exists in a very complex Icelandic translation and has been published twice by Iceland's Secret Bank. There they can thoroughly review the quality and design of it and describe what had been deep over these international institutions, which were the International Bank and the World Bank, and that were not less men than Lord Kaynes, the principal contracter of the British, and an American named Harry Dexter White. In fact, when the American's viewpoint was compared with what he did, he did. But the reason I'm reviewing this, Madam President, is that we're now discussing how to end the period that started. It's a matter of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, not to mention the history of capitalists, but it just doesn't matter how they do it. And in that process, it is mandatory, especially for the members of the council and for the rest of the case, the government, to care for the full amount of Icelandic interests. And Icelandic interests are on the rise in this matter. In order to complete this issue regarding the scope of policy management of these Icesave states and the reason why I mentioned the Founding Convention is that it allows for normal treatment and equal communication between Member States and the founding of the Member States, even if it's a little like Iceland, it can't be cremated. Then there's another thing, and there's the mattress, if I may, or the politics in the World Bank, countries that are naturally not offered to be performed in the manner that these Icezave nations seemed to have the opportunity to do. Then I mention e.g. countries such as China, India, who represent both of them in the 24 - man administration of the International Cash Fund. Madam President. When I'm discussing Icelandic interests, it's natural to say how the trend has been in terms of the benefits of these foreign sources offers to free these off-countries. Like what? paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was attributed in his talk, which is becoming a sort of long story here, because it did not succeed in ending the story, that evolution is in any way, not to be said at all, in order to improve their interests in terms of demands or, rather, the owners of these requisitions from what was laid up and at the expense of Icelandic interests. And, Madam President, that's exactly what we're talking about here, Icelandic interests. I'm going to allow myself, Madam President, to refer to this bill we're dealing with here. When you try to figure out what you are going to do, you can see in the report that the bill is one of the last steps by the government to defuse capital capital capital capitals set up after the fall of the Icelandic financial system of 2008. All right. There is also the subject of the remaining limitations, the treatment of these crowns that we are primarily talking about here, and then another matter is taken up there, a very big and important case, which is the so - called Influx Head, which needs special discussion and examination. But I also notice that it says in the report, referring to Article 1. The law says that the aim of the law is to contribute to the emissions of capital stocks and provide a basis for free international exchange with Icelandic dollars, with economic stability and social benefits being guided. There is no petty goal set in the nation's economic and financial lives. It's not like a dollar is some big currency that's easily divided in the international currency market, but it's suddenly entered that bill. And you ask yourself, " Why is this when the very essence of the matter comes to mind on the basis of what benefits these people will be given to their national property? ' I'm not criticizing this, but I think it's a little different from the main thing. All right. I'm going to reiterate it, Mrs. President, as I have said here, that it's about Icelandic interests. It is a matter of careful and responsible care, depending on a large question: Why would these agents allow these assets to be thrown out at a globally different level than the proposed plans for the Iceland Government and the Iceland Seyborg Bank? And why right now? What interests are at stake for the nation of Iceland that calls for it? These big questions remain unsettled. That's why I'd like to say that this discussion today is not just urgent, it's absolutely necessary. But I can't really get out of the platform without saying that I'm surprised and disappointed that there's a senator up here. A financial and business committee, which I understand has been in for some time, which seems completely impossible to discuss, and chooses to kick off in any direction, and especially at the right time. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson in a disrespectful manner, I allow myself to say, Madam President, and luminous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u236	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He introduced what is of utmost importance in this context of all importance, i.e. The defense against the interests of our country, our nation, our state funds, and all that we at the Council are entrusted with. It beats me that once men have shown the constant follow - ups that have been shining through ever since the mid - 2016 season, and now it is the apparent perfection of the situation, they intend to ensure the complete victory that was most difficult for us Icelanders at the time of the situation. I'd like to know what it's like. A senator is concerned with the effect that this has on other interests that the government will take on our behalf. Earlier today, we discussed the import of non - frozen meat. There are countless cases the government, the executives, is in and should be at the job of defending Iceland's interests. It's what it is. A senator that, for the most aggressive, such a perfect surrender, affects the other interests and credibility of the European Commission in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u237	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He attributed that there is the greatest postmortem possible. It is carried out precisely with the most difficult ones, and it is least willing to participate in the 2015 program as completely as it was. I allow me to recall that government has been severely tested after the collapse when giant parties, who used unscheduled demands called Icesaves. It is as if people were not missing here with these requirements, even to this day, who were not even demanding, because they were without law. But they agreed that the Icelanders had responsibilities to carry out some payment because of these demands, beyond what those requirements were in the fallen bank, the Bank of Iceland. The time comes when a person must prove what they are made of and resist such behavior. Of course, it is a great temptation for many to lie down on those who are few and small and lying, as we were after the economic collapse. Happily, though, the nation itself showed what they were doing, making a twofold proper decision on the matter of national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u238	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think that's exactly what we're discussing right now, i.e. of what men are made of. This complete surrender that shines through at the present luxuriant time is in the process of walking on the song. The men were walking on the song. I wasn't even that close to reviewing the progress of the left board in 2009,2013 in the Icesave case. This may come in my speech later. Of course, it is unacceptable if those who are defensive, which are only Icelandic companies, Icelandic citizens, experience the experience of being put to the test in real life. It is not a fall to increase faith in the importance of standing properly in the legs when complex issues arise. Here, earlier today, one case where there is a real test of how strong Icelandic managers can get up, this is about the many-scale changes in the import rules of non-frosted meat. These are matters that make it possible for anyone who looks at us from the outside and who intends to take care of the situation in terms of having dealings with governments that give up under pressure. I reiterate these concerns: How does this feel? A senator? Does he think that to the future, the government is to harm itself by this career and outcome if this becomes the end of the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u239	Madam President. More than anything, I consider the damage, or the damage, as well. A senator named, is an Icelandic country. We are in a situation today that there are a very loud demand for improvement in various areas, for members of society who have become seriously overlooked, and for whom they cannot be kept without a straitjacket, as men know. They must move only if they are limited in their backs and backs, if they endeavor to improve their interests with increased work. Indeed, there are many good things to do with money. Why would Iceland's government decide now to give in contrast with the proposed amount of money that could therefore be used for good business? I'd like to reiterate what I've said before: Here's some Icelandic interests underneath, and there's still a lot of questions left. I think it's true that people slow down in this matter and take note every step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u240	Madam President. We'll talk about deportation and the government bill in the matter that needs some reason to run through in one day. What brings the most attention to my judgment on the bill is the policy behind it. To a considerable extent, the cover of the case is presented in a long paper with the bill. As we know, many African owners acquired their claims for a very low price, Sirk 2◯5% of their names by buying them through the auction of financial insurance on major Icelandic banks after they ran out in October 2008. Those who had sold the insurance had to pay those who had bought them. In accordance with legal requirements in the insurance agreements, the obtaining of existing possessions was followed by auctions. Many of the merchants were so - called vulture funds that specialize in buying bankrupt companies and applying economic difficulties to countries. The government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon decided that they would have to pay the so - called stable stress so that they could sell their money for foreign currency. The same was true of the fragments of the fallen banks that gave the State a great deal of property. This can be read in a paper with the bill. A number of hedges and vulture funds - we stick to that word because it's a legal thing - we didn't accept the government's offer at great prices and responded to the worst. Many are still remembering the advertisements they published for the elections in the autumn of 2016, and it is known when conflicting demands by the U.S.A., by president's permission, feature a full - page ad in the morning newspaper, attacked the Icelandic government, and tried to influence the outcome of elections on the day before elections. Buchheit Buuchy, then government counselor, said that the campaign of hedge funding was known but the meddling in a sovereign state election was unique. Under it it shall surely be taken away. There we see the huge interests behind them and what the funds were willing to go far in that regard. They're not going anywhere. Of course, they were to be met with harsh funds, and this was done during the reign of the reign of Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson. In that method, the Icelandic spokesman for the funds admitted to the Finnish Times. We can see that there were Icelandic advocates who worked against Icelandic interests. That in itself is an investigation. The purpose was to try to see that a new government would take a different action and take more softer hands on the fund's issues and to show a little more reasonableness, in their opinion, as it was said on their part. At the beginning of 2017, the polls began to improve, and they are now invited to go out to market prices with the rest, although they have grown ill. It is clear, therefore, that after the new governments began, at the head of the Independence Party and then at the head of the left green, the funds have been rewarded for going to battle with Iceland and not taking the original offer. They had sought justice from the courts here and abroad but had lost them. Iceland had every right to use the spell, so it's clear, in full rights. And what has changed since then? Where are the spells now, Madam President? So improve the ideal hedge fund of 2017, and the ones called in the bill are a gift to the hedge fund, the vultures, as we say. There is no legal obligation. In fact, it's amazing how much subjugation, if I allow myself to say so, is in charge of such a vulture's treasure when left green is in charge of the government. Then it can be recollected that during the financial Ministry of the Left Green, the hedge funds were brought to the banks on a silver plate and the government of the Sigmunds of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoug had to be restored by drastic measures and difficult negotiations. Madam President. By means of the bill, those who refused to cooperate with the Icelandic government are being rewarded. This is not to be allowed by the hard-necked hedge funds. Governments have yielded, they have not stood up as if they should have been and should have done. It is possible to yield to the funds that have prepared everything to harm Icelandic interests, but it is not possible to yield anything when it comes to the dress business or the government's proposals to support them. That's not possible. Madam President. We look forward to all the other benefits these Africans will be allowed to leave the country. You ask yourself why. Why the hurry? There have been no explanations. In the end, I have to say, in this storm, that you're wondering if there's something left behind that can't stand the light of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u241	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for inspired talks and fine reviews. This was to stir up our hearts and hearts and to stand on our feet, even though we are a small island north of the sea with large and strong sources of money. It came about how this all came about in its own time, regardless of the historical explanation. I'd like to ask the senator what he ended with in his talk, which I've asked myself, and I'm sure the people too. At the end of his talk, the senator spoke of a person leading a similar life. Is the senator willing to let us know what he means, and what might be behind him? This is a big question mark in my mind and I'm sure a lot of other people. Why do you need to come in here? They tried to sneak it in on the last day before Christmas, and it's dated and they say that otherwise something really will happen. Is it possible for the senator to calm the minds of the people by helping them to figure out what might be behind them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u242	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with him, and he knows very well from my former duties that it is important to take the wave step. This is exactly what was done during the reign of the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the people on that matter. You see how desperate the funds had become. Before the election, they publish an advertisement, an ad in more than one newspaper because they were so afraid they would be headed for the then prime minister, not to give up. It is unprecedented that foreign interests, called in a foreign language, have allowed themselves to influence elections in this way in a sovereign state. That's one thing I think. That's why you ask yourself, and I rightly asked at the end of my talk: Is there something that can't stand the light of the day? Why the hurry? I've been thinking about it a lot and can't really answer that big question. It also draws my attention to the committee's spokesman, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is nowhere. It is as if he fled from the scene when he saw that this would meet some resistance, the swift review of the bill at the council, which is incomprehensible to me. You'd be right about what you're doing. A senator would come over and answer why the situation is so inconceivable. I think he's the one to answer that question, and hopefully we'll get it from him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u243	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. He actually throws the question forward to the president of the Economic and Business Committee, which recommended the Commission's committee and a new proposal. I would love him to come in the hall and answer the simple question of how this method works. You're worried about her with experience, e.g. Because the case took a U-turn summer of 2016 and because of what has been going on since then. Speaking of taking the wave, you have to learn it when you're in such a situation, and it gets in the habit. I've also often said that once you board a ship, you want to go to a room where the captain is good at taking the wave and the fish well and taking good care of the crew of the ship and her family. It seems to me that the captain of the Bar of 2013 was doing a great job. I have no further questions for the senator but thank him for his excellent speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u244	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I like his illustration of how important it is to take the wave and meet what may be necessary, e.g. in the fishing road. We can link it with the discussion because it is clear that this government does not take the waves as it should in such an important and important matter of interest, as it has been traced. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunson correctly introduced this and, in a very simple way, explained how much interests are at stake. I'd like to get in on it as well. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned, which I found very interesting. He raised the question of how this might affect other government interests. This is how the matter is left out, and when we are faced with a difficult negotiation later, people will not think, " Well, will they give up anyway? ' We're standing, for example. in the face of a very serious matter, which is the import of raw meat and eggs to the country, which will have a major impact on Icelandic agriculture. You might ask yourself, " Was it just because the government knew that it would not respond adequately, as should have been? ' It's all a force. The point is to me, that the country is being left with an entirely different set of options. The prize is being given to those who were the hardest. [[The president calls.]] There must be something wrong with what we haven't been told.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u245	Madam President. It is noteworthy that when it comes to the smell of a matter that is important to the Icelandic interests, the conference should be almost empty, except that here are members of the Central Party and one brave independent person, to be told. We're just about to finish something that might be - and because I'm here somewhere else. A member of the side hall, who is not only a senator but also a great poet, would be able to finish what we are about to be best promised and would be just a good name for a novel: a feast of the hedge fund. We're just about to finish this party and the director of the party, chief. Secretary of finance, has sat at my table, broken the bread, and dosed the plates since 2016, since the time the conversion was taken on the issue of fixing up a foreign hedge fund. Let's look at this in size: Just the last two steps of the score, i.e. The start of 2017 began at a rate of 100 billion. They were released at 137.5 k. for euro--then the crews were registered here on the market about 110 k, if I remember correctly, so that was about 11% of the difference between the euro being taken out by the registered gangs - we'd remember, i.e. The nation, 13 billion, in some way. On the other hand, if we set 190 k, which was the first bid, we're talking about everything else and a much larger figure. Today, those who have won the fight are being rewarded, as it were. paritaprevir About two years ago, King Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson spoke of it. Those who won the test show are now walking away with 83 billion dollars. 166.5 p.m., which is the same thing a man on his way to Spain gets to buy his currency and take him to his vacation. 83 billion bucks. of 136.5. If they had been forced to do no more than last year and had this 11% on top of today's reported gangs, it would have strengthened the population. With Icelanders, this final dose, this resurgence of the hedge fund, would have come out of the last amount, 11 to 15 billion. People may think it's a smart one, but then I remind them of the fateful actions introduced by the government a few days ago to the price of a bargaining contract of 18 billion. You need this kind of money. We can totally use these amounts, the people. But no, it shouldn't be that way in this case. It is to reward the hedge fund for their service of land and nation, as it were, or so on. It is true to say that there was an entirely uncool reversal that took place in the middle of 2016, where the Icelandic nation and the Icelandic state had been in a campaign against the hedge fund under the control of things. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, were then the highest. Prime Minister. In a very short time, this attack turned into planned retreat, and the government that then began to conduct an organized retreat until last year when unorganized flights broke out. All of this made it clear to the horrified government right away in 2016 that it was not the same as it was today. Today, people could walk through the Icelandic state funds, such as entering a business company and taking care of their own price. This is what's crystalting here today. Mrs. President, it is indistinguishable that the council is invited to bring this matter here today and that it will be done at two meetings today by law. Today, the General Assembly of Iceland is to make an insignificant set of plungers for the minister of finance, the feast manager of the hedge fund. And it's like everybody accepted it. There is no interest in it at any time. Councilmen discussing this case, he doesn't exist. There's no interest in it. Councilmen sitting at the discussion watching it. He doesn't exist. It's as if they've accepted it a long time ago, or anything, that we're allowed here to run away with the hedges of 83 billion years ago. ... onthisdayday's gang. It's so messy, it's so shameful, and it's so ignominious to us that I feel it's heavier than tears that no one should be interested in this matter except the members of the Central Party. However, this is not the first time that that that group has been on its move and has not been shocked. But it is as if everyone else has escaped under deck and lies in bed. What matters most in this relationship is that not only are we walking away with 83 billion years, which is what people call completing the snow hanger, but it has been revealed, Madam President, in the reply of finance ministers to the twice - round inquiry of the one sitting here in 2015 and 2018, that this has flowed into a new high - risk budget. After these tractors, you must ask yourself: " What do those who have put in the risk money every year, bought here government bonds, and other assets? Do they see that after two years or then they'll have a smoky out of here with their possessions at a considerably higher price? Besides the natural fact that the money has been in the cradle of interest, which is unknown. And don't you think it's going to be somebody -- I could just name Sweden, England, anywhere, where steering fruits are zero or below zero, where interest levels are very low - coming here to 6.5% interest? I quote it as the highest. One minister wrote several years ago, in fact before a collapse: Don't you see the feast, boys? But the vultures see the party, and they flock here. They buy stocks, stock stocks, and bonds here and make a lot of money. Of course, these men, on their side, have a powerful team of lawyers and all kinds of helpmen, know what they can expect by coming here while the present government is ruling. They can come in and act like a man who gets into a business company and does his own thing and decides his own price. That's what they know. You are afraid of this constant surrender of foreign power, which appeared in 2009 when men were half-pinned and scared. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. A fixed sale price on the government's share at Arion Bank, which became reality last year's Guard of 2009. It is the same permissiveness that led to last year's failure to take over Arion's bank, to reduce his own money, Iceland, and then to sell it. It would have been easy to do, but they didn't. What has happened since then? Yes, those who bought this bank or acquired it during this act have twice paid off ten billion dollars. in profit, 20 billion who would have the best chance to go to the state's budget but take it to a hedge fund. It's 20 billion of the banks you value at 120 billion, if you remember correctly, in this business. What has been done? One of the largest assets of this bank has been placed in a trade process, i.e. of the bank at Valitor, which is in the bank's books at about 17 billion bucks. But I would be surprised if the sale value of this item falls largely below 70 billion dollars. What has happened then? At about (b) What questions remain to be answered? A year they are the persons who made this bank worth over 70 billion of the 120 that they paid for the bank. 70 billion in one year. I could quite believe that in this new owners group of Arion banks, we have a host of Icelanders, who are also participants in the exporting of 83 billion dollars. ... onthisdayday's gang. If this case goes all the way today, which I really hope it doesn't, but if it does, they'll have champagne in both the west of America and London coming to the stock market. They'll drink to the folly and inadequacies of the Icelanders who have made it possible for men to walk out of here with this money, far below what they should have paid to get out of here. It is true to say, both sad and turning to see this in view of the 2013 policy taken in 2013, six years ago, worked unbelievably well, and is the principal step toward turning the economic situation in Iceland in the way that everyone knows. Another such reversal has never been seen anywhere in such a short period of time. But it is a struggle that can be fought. That's why we're the only middle-class members here to discuss this matter that is important to us Icelanders, not just now, not just this time, because a group of hard-ass financers out of the world knows that Iceland's government is the most important thing to do. They'll swallow any cup. At what cost? At the national expense. I make that statement, and every man has 100 billion who left last year at 137.5 K. but could have gone out in 190. The difference, between these two, is about 23◯25 billion. What kind of amount is that? She's about. estimated waste of Iceland's budget by 2019 Now let's see that there was no room for 1.1 billion people to do the budget. Two hundred and fifty million would not be possible. K. running to home service. There was no way to promote law enforcement. It could not be arranged in such a way that older ones could earn extra power. That wasn't possible. There wasn't any money. The rest of the Icelandic budget, 29 billion, was far too small, according to financial minister, the master of the hedge fund. However, it is possible to let the hedge fund out with an amount of 83 billion dollars. ... onthisdayday's gang. In fact, it is not in men that even expect us to take care of it at a few hours, as if nothing were taken for granted. The other things couldn't be finished. It is not possible to make proper tax proposals to try to cover the less paid scale so that a hard - run job can be helped in order to meet the pay raise. That's not possible. But the hedge fund can be allowed out with 83 billion per day. This is completely incomprehensible priorities, Madam President. It is, in itself, of the magnitude that it is, in effect, the ones who make this up for perpetual shame. I think this day will be remembered for a long time because of the frustration we are experiencing today, because of the inadequacy shown by the government, by the subjugation shown by the government in its conflicts or by its dealings with foreign financial powers. I guess it'll be a long day too, because it's the day when the Senate wasn't here, except the Central Party. This is the day when other senators were in either the cafeteria to put cookies in or a town somewhere to care for some business or in their offices. Maybe someone's been working. But they're not here, except members of the Central Party. It seems that there is no interest in this and concern over the magnitude of the issue and the extent of the interests of the people involved in it. Nobody seems to be interested or worried about it. It's as if there's only enough money in the state's budget, enough shit, even though we can't fix up with microchip and even if we can't help it with the collective agreements and even though we can't allow the elderly to earn a little bit of money. There's only one. But we're willing to pat all the hedge funds on the shoulder and all the shylocks in the world. We're willing to make a deal with all of them, but it's not up to us to do it. Madam President. I reiterate that this day is in itself a day of sorrow, a day of frustration. It is the day when the Icelandic government turned its knees against a foreign power that will continue to be remembered for a long time. I wish that a Senate world, instead of being somewhere else, would not participate in these discussions, get together, all members of Congress as one, and put that matter away. There's no hurry. There's nothing to encourage except some interests of hedge funds that we Middle-class people don't like to be served at a time. We can't do anything by getting out of this collapse reimbursement of the damage suffered by us Icelanders. It's not happening with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u246	A respectable president. I agree with a senator that it is special not to see any members in the hall or in a side room except members of the Central Party when such a big matter is discussed. You wonder, " Is this because the surrender is complete or because they are not interested in the case? ' I think the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee should be here, at least. Hv. A senator spoke of the feast of the hedge fund, which is very brief and can be proved. Today, the role of many of us and most of us in the recent Middle East has been to defend Icelandic interests since 2009. It's all right because defense is the best offense, says somewhere. For that reason, of course, we do not question ourselves. In general, the matter of what the senator mentioned in a talk is that the government has decided to deliver a certain amount of money or property, whatever we call it, by accepting the amount or price of money that we believe is too low. Hv. A senator mentioned a difference between this 84 billion, 111⁄215 billion for success, i.e. because of the way things have been going on in tenders. I didn't quite reach the contrast between the senator when he mentioned that there was an audience of 1,915 billion on the march that is now being offered, and then on some other number. So I simply didn't make it, and I want to ask the senator to go back to the example he mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u247	President. Thank you. A senator for giving me a chance to explain this further. Actually, my comparison was extremely respectful and modest. It is based on the fact that by 2017, when the funds were released at 137.5 k. The euro was registered to the euro gangs around 110 K. The difference was about 131⁄215%. What I meant was that if men had had the courage to hold the same difference in this campaign, in the last thing being realized today, we would be talking about 83 billion. One hundred and twenty-one percent on top of it, depending on how we guess it, how far we go. That's what I meant when I took this example. Of course, I could have taken a much more realistic example, i.e. The difference in 190 k. magazines in their time and at the present time. That's tens of billions of dollars. But it is as if they did not have the courage, desire, or the desire to collect - I want to say collect - that will. As we have seen in the case of more senators, what we are collecting or doing is intended to do according to the 2015 plan, the cost of military work, and the damage it caused to an Icelandic nation. Now, though, people have gagged and given up on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u248	A respectable president. Once again, we come to the point that, of course, it's all about the basis for a particular interest guard, i.e. whose interests are being cared for. Of course, it is our attempt to see it or at least affect how and how much of the hedge fund that these people have here return to the people, to the Icelanders. It seems that there's a plan where men don't think about it anymore, it's some underlying issue, because it's not a problem of mine knowing that there's something that people want to do and that it's good to finish, as they sometimes say. It doesn't matter how many billion it is, it just has to be done. Is it possible that we are in the situation again and again that people have taken some form of therapy during the course of 2016 and gradually negotiated on the prices we see today, a far lower than what they were planning to pay on the plans and plans that were set out in their time? This is so when we are fighting and moving forward at the same time, we need a measure of patience, a measure of persistence, in order to put the defense to victory. I feel like a whale. A senator has been telling us an example of a lack of money, that the defense broke down when people brought up the possibility that other amounts of money could be negotiated other than others were made to pay or accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u249	Madam President. You're absolutely right about what you're doing. Senator. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was doing well back then, the late bat's supply of funds, which had relatively small possessions, said that the prices set up would be enough for everyone, i.e. All the funds and stakeholders were brought down to the lowest threshold. Madam President. In itself, I think that here we see an example of something that has happened before, for we Icelanders have previously had interestsmen who produced fairy tales because they didn't mind having them hanging over themselves, as the fame has become. I think that those of the good people who come up with this matter for Iceland were affected by it, they just don't feel like having this case hanging over themselves anymore, and that's why they exist once and for all, no matter what it costs the Icelandic people. I'm sorry. It's natural to be such a failure that we must keep it alive if the case is lost today, if it gets through the council, which I hope will not be, and we will naturally strive not to happen. It's such an infinite evil message out into the financial world that's not a loving affair. höttur are no longer alive, and they are no longer employed in a bank or a hedge fund. This is bad messages to those who are going to try to make Iceland a future failure. It has been shown that the Icelandic government is not on its feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u250	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's grocer. In his case, he made it clear that interest rates available to humans in Iceland were completely different from investors known abroad, especially in the last year, where the interest rates or the main interest rates of cash banks in each area are close to zero. I'm thinking about whether or not. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's concern is that in terms of the concern of those who are most aggressive in this matter, flights in a group of foreign investors, which are here based on the interest level, as it seems to be to some extent, give you a reason to believe. I know what you're doing. A senator for other markets in the Western world where investors are available for management interest as well as for underlying economic conditions? Of course, people can find places here and there on stupidity, since everything is in their hands and the underlying wax loss may not be everything. However, as compared with what happens in the communities we compare with them, growth is at the highest level here. I'm thinking about whether or not. A senator is concerned that the growth such as this will be an incentive for the investors to leave Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u251	President. In itself, I could answer this with a single word, saying: No. But it is so; and therefore I pointed to it from before, that, while men have been shoveling this snow-engineering, at all costs at all times, possessions have been gathered together, because they have come into this field. There's some stuff in a inquiry to Iceland's Secret Bank, through the highest level. Secretary of the budget, how much we've been paying these stakes for interest in the past few years. What fruitage have they had from their investment in this country? There is a subject, I think, in a very good inquiry and would be better to take up that matter, either there or in a special discussion. But no, I'm not afraid men will run away with a lot of money. The late bank manager has been interviewing lately, telling us that we're equipped with weapons and we've got a lot of powder in the barrel, and I don't know what foam he's been drawing to show us that Iceland's Navy is well equipped, despite the idea of hiking now. But the funds and parties who get the treatment of those we're saying goodbye to today, if the bill becomes legal, will always come back if they expect to be like a trakation. There's no doubt in my mind. Hv. A senator rightly spoke of this part of the world. There may be times when a person can take in gold and diamonds somewhere in an evolutionary country and earn a lot of money from it. But in the Western world, I can see no place where people can find the same fruits or fruits as those of incorporated money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u252	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the answer. It is a joy to know that we, like some time ago, are not the only middle - class members in the hall. In addition to what I asked him why. I'd like to have a place with him about what appears to be shining through, this government message that we've had enough now. The actions framed by the government then prime minister, head of the Central Party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, in 2015, have gone so well, and they have provided so much that we are now only in a nice place and can allow us to yield to real heights. We have seen this in recent times, and in fact, it may have been a steady stream of water, this government's attitude, since the late part of 2016, which has probably never been clearer than today by the implementation of this case. I'd like to know, live a little bit. A senator of government, government, in the same way as the one here, i.e. that people are satisfied and therefore think that they can give away large amounts of money that would have come into a government fund would have had in them to follow the plan that was set out to an end rather than reward those most difficult in Icelandic governments and Icelandic interests at the most difficult times?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u253	Madam President. Now it is to be seen that many of the present executives in Iceland claimed, when a reduction plan was submitted, that the figures they then named on what might be dropped into a corner were irresponsible, would never be reached, etc. Perhaps it is simply what men are up to to, to help prevent these numbers from being attained, that the success is not achieved with what is being done here. I'm sure if people had stood up and stuck to the plan, the plan submitted in 2015, we would already be reaping more than we ever had during the day, unfortunately. I say again, this permissiveness is manifested everywhere. It is also shown by not wanting to take over Arion's bank. I had a chance of falling overboard about 70 billion, i.e. after stopping Valitor's sale. So I'll just find out if I'm wrong about that. But I reiterate that the people who are now in charge in Iceland were many of them the figures mentioned in connection with the debt of the fallen banks were out of shape with all reality - but it's been the rest of the day. In itself, all of this has stood as a letter on a book, until a man's footprints were lost. It may well be that even now those in charge in Iceland are so content that they will be content with the third advantage when they could get the best by just having the courage. They did not even have to form or create the plan. It had been created for them. All man had to do was stick with her and keep working for her. Sad to say, though: Evil has been a source of courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u254	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the legal handling of crowns dependent on specific restrictions and currency laws, so-called de-country releases and commitments to capital flows. There's a lot about the bill to check, and we'll see if my first talk will last forever. But first, I'd like to come on to the point of the time frame we've been given today. It is not as if this due date, one day, February 26, has been recently defined. There has been a long period of time before today, on February 26, just today. This suggests that the situation needs to be over today because the nation's interests are high. What's being treated as logical support today reminds you of many of the defence talks being held by the support workers of the Icesave Treaty in the past. If we put it in context, more part of the Economic and Business Committee was supplied to the Commission on February 21st. There are three members of the Independence Party and then representatives of all the Arab Party. It was last Thursday. Friday was not a meeting. Then a meeting for winter cover was canceled in the capital area, if I understood it correctly. Saturday, there was no meeting. On Sunday, there was no conference. Yesterday, Monday, there was no meeting. This matter was discussed with the discussion of walking today on Tuesday, February 26, 2019, and it is used as a specific argument in the case that there must be an end of unscheduled det me, otherwise it will all go to hell. So the market closes in this sort of business between three and four, so it was only the narratives that ran out within the time they were open. Of course, it won't hold any water, and we shouldn't be offered such nonsense. The only thing that happens if this case doesn't run out today is that the Afghan owners who own this 3.1% have it tomorrow and the other one and the other, just as if the case had run out. So there is no time pressure, no great interests at the moment. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy insisted on today and has mailed it to his wall on Facebook with continued coverts to the head of the Middle Party, who are as insignificant as expected. I wanted to settle the issue that has to do with the time frame this way. It's totally unscrupulous to invite us to start the discussion at this hour and that two discussions should be completed. There was supposed to be a break-up. The first discussion of the day, 2nd. about the bill, started more than three. By that time, the four were on the market, and all the fine investors with whom the men knelt on their knees were supposed to have bought new papers for their closing day. But let's just put that part aside, for God's sake. This won't hold any water. The most serious thing to me is the message that comes from giving up a righteous and holy human being. If your opponent carries enough pressure on the table, get down. Since the mid - 2016 season, there have been constant flights in dealing with the owners of the Off-counters. Men have given more and more, and of course, those who control the funds and owners are no fools, they see this: Hey, the powerful men who defend the nation's interests got all over it. Let's take one more lap, one more spin, and see what we can get out there. So the bat offers more and more offers for the same party and always thinks: Let them send us one more offer. Now at the beginning of 2019, it seems that when we had a hard shot, the demanding workers, the most difficult of them were the Icelandic interests that were most intense when we had what was most difficult to do, we have won the complete victory. It's not that we have a position to defend, they had everything they could do. With regard to all the talk about growth in those days, it can be said that while part of the time is interestless, interest rates are being weighed over the time of the situation so that the same investors would probably have had nothing to offer in the Western world similar guarantees of paper. The messages sent by men are designed to be noticed by everyone. Of course, people now smile at other people and think, " We wouldn't have had to have so many meetings with Icelanders because of my freezing duty on meat,'they would have let themselves down anyway. After all, it will be interesting to consider what has really been done in the difficult situations we've been fighting for the past few years, such as. It is turned to the import of unheated meat. Have people really taken the fight they could take? Have humans really tried everything they can? The story that all the news and the bill that lies before us is that you don't really think of believing that our fine agents actually stood on their feet, for they certainly don't do it in the case that turns to deportors. When the story is made up in such a clear way, from the middle of 2016 to the beginning of 2019 C.E., where people get down in each conflict after another, and, of course, more and more, are being sent just a better offer to the developers. This is the message they're sending today. Our opposers, opposing national interests, will rely on humans to go down to the present time. It will be devastatingly devastating. I think the damage involved in such signaling, that people are always ready to yield, may be much more than in that dollar and money and billions lost by the application we have in the case as it is available today. On the other hand, there is one factor in making comments on the subject and the report on the subject. So I'll only bring back the concern that the matter must be run out today, otherwise there's a great emergency, saying, by permission of the President, lower on the first page of the committee opinion: The review says: "At the risk of this increase - that is, if the case doesn't run out by the end of the day - ▪ that large African creditors, whose messages have been kept in continuous possession from the seas and that they are expected to reinvent in Icelandic bonds when their letters arrive on their due date on February 26, will be replaced by a release of separate accounts. They're saying that a great danger, a terrible disaster is at hand if those things don't run out today. It has to be said that the governments and the president of the Generals have had the advantage of bringing this matter on a much earlier schedule, and no doubt the committee would have settled it sooner if it had been demanded. But nothing will happen after this day, except that the creditors will have their crowns tomorrow, as they do today. It will not be because of the low interest they will leave the area with their money. It's amazing to see the interest level still being maintained in Iceland in a cooling economy. If we compare it with the countries around us where the fliers are passing through zero, foreign investors don't have a gósen night like this. Despite temporary stability influx insurgents in tourism and a powerful fishing industry and high currency form, it is like being wrapped around cotton to be trapped in an Icelandic growth environment. There is a good chance that they will still enjoy it. It is claimed in some way that the Swamp will have to spend much more time to prevent gangs falling in connection with detriment. I'm going back to the Icesave hotels, and all the misery they've had, and I hope some people are listening to the debate in their television sets in their offices, or it's just members of the Central Party and one of the Piratis, in the longest law, not to panic because of this date. In the whole case, which is the endpoint of the major and unprecedented operation, framed in 2015, the conclusion of the operation, or the final part, has been extremely complex, unfortunately. The results of the operation have been fairy tales. It is more important than tears that people seem to have convinced themselves that it has gone well enough, that the measures have gone so well, that they have turned so much into government funds, the Icelandic economy has become so strong, that no society, no economics have reached such a reversal, and since the collapse of the Western world in 2008 and the Icelandic society, and all of this is now going so well, let's just skip the closing phase. I may be wrong, but somewhere I could see or read that the last two steps were the most dangerous life of the tightrope dancers. Then they thought the game was over and they were in a safe harbor, but that's not the way it is. When a plan is set that should be made in a certain way, and it is completely undisputed and went obligely well off, one should follow it and finish it, especially when the interests of a government fund are absolutely obvious in doing as it was suggested. We are not in the position of giving away even billions of dollars, just because we feel that it is enough. We can have good use of the money, whether it is for infrastructure, for the welfare system, or for the payment of debt. We can use all of them. We should not yield, and we should not broadcast that message to the future government interests care, no matter what the case may be, that we go down in the latter part of the world, for no one will give up. No one's going to take the job, and no one will sit down and negotiate with us at the beginning of the following if they know that the national interests of the nation will end up at the end. There's a message we can't send out. Even if it's being arranged in this case, it's not too late to stop, and we should. We're going to get into a situation that's much more extensive than the last part of the EU's parole in terms of national interest protection for Iceland. Then I'm talking about Congress itself and the government every time. We're going to get into much bigger. We have to show that we have confirmed to finish and to follow through, that we have the courage and strength, but we do not get over it when the pressure is received. I'm going to do this in my first speech, so to speak, in the context of the parts, but I'm going to ask the president to put me back on the speaker's list, even though only my speech period remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u255	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that there were enough discussions about this strange date and the dangers it posed, but I can't resist because after that. A senator then pointed to it, and I saw that a discussion about the matter began at least 15,03. End of bond market at 1 00 p.m. 15,30, or 16, I'm not sure, it's clear that men have expected to complete the debate, answer, other talks, to be handed over to committees, members of the Committee, bring it back into the Senate Hall in the siege. and then we have a vote for it in 27 minutes, with a vote and all that in 27 minutes. Clearly, this would have been impossible. You must wonder, " Why is this the case presented? ' Why is this period evidently not possible, and even the administrative part, with its authority over the Council's program, apparently did not work out? Why? Why insist that these things must be completed because otherwise they might be offended by not being able to go right away and buy more government bonds, men who have been shut down here for a decade? Has a what? A senator who, in effect, pointed out some absurd theory about why this is so developed against us who consider it proper to discuss this important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u256	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question certainly is of interest to Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson. Now I'm going to let myself think a little out loud. When it comes to this time pressure and the high emphasis is put on time at the same time when the deadline is completely out, the suspicion that a person is not interested in having a lot of material discussions, objective talks on the subject. There is really nothing else that can explain that the governments that have all control of this matter, such as driving, can. A senator came in, the whole administration, put the case in the incredible position that the discussion begins at 15,03, markets the end of 15,30 or 16, we can look it up between answers, and we should be able to complete a full discussion with all that follows, refer to committees, interrupt meetings, reinvent the case, discuss it with votes and finish, and the investors are supposed to be able to take over and buy new bonds. This is just a matter of avoiding the discussion. That's all there is to it. They had the ability to do this with much more time, and there is no explanation that would come to my mind than that humans did not want to find themselves in the position of having to reason on the issues involved. You might say there's a little light coming through because here's the front man of the case, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, not present and no other member of the board, not alone, so that's my best guess. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u257	V.E.G. President. Of course, when an attempt was made to slip through it on the last day of the Council before Christmas break, a person may wonder, especially after observing how this case first came into the council. When did it appear again and pass through in seven minutes or six? On the day of Generalis's work, the council was virtually inaccessible because of one of the U.S. barbecued barbecues he was driving through. That day was chosen to settle the matter in six minutes without any immediate notice. Of course, you're beginning to suspect. And today's payday is on this bond. They've paid it at the latest, expected, just before the end of the market, but it may well have been that they paid out this morning and that this letter was only paid out when it was claimed that there was nothing to discuss, that they had to drive it through because of this date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u258	Mr. President. I'll thank you later for the answer. Senator. I had simply forgotten that this case had been rushed through in a few minutes, likely on January 22, 2000. This, in addition to all the other things you've been going through here, of course, suggests that there's nothing very comfortable about this. There is no other explanation for a reasonable view. When these matters are put on the schedule on the day of the attic, so as to speak in a mild way, in six, seven minutes, and then they don't bring it back in until they're completely unawares from someone's uninterrupted deadlines, they just say that they don't want to discuss the subject. It's the only explanation that makes sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u259	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the tour and the speech. He made a subject in his talk on the committee's talk and even quoted. directly into the comments of Iceland's Central Bank, the committee's Office on the matter, and went on to include Over the fact that the bat seems to give it its way, that, first of all, if this doesn't come true, there's going to be a lot of trouble here, and it might cost us a lot. Second, there is a group of owners involved in these bonds that are believed to be likely to reinvest in Icelandic bonds. Is it so that we can just figure out, or think, that people will use property or money or a letter that they have in this way? What I would like to ask, though, is why. A senator is the chances that these owners can get somewhere better for their money than they get today in Iceland. Is it that it pays them to take their money and take it to Europe or the United States and its fruit there or is it better for them to have it here in Iceland and wait at ease? You wonder what the Secret Bank has to claim that everything is going to go fucking or that you're going to invest in Icelandic bonds again. Well, I haven't read yet, admit it, the State Bank review. But I wondered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u260	Mr. President. The late bank, for example, has lost its way several times, but it does not bother to say that this statement is true even though it is possible for me to find it possible to do so. Investors only take their money there and invest it in the papers that give them the highest yield taking into account risks and commitments. Today I don't think that men are offering as loyal to the government as they are in Icelandic paperwork, taking into account their interest. I think, as I said earlier, people are a bit like cotton wrapped around here in their trades with Icelandic government bonds, Icelandic government papers. I like the weird medging that comes out of the Secret Bank and turns to the debate on interest levels. I have told several talks here in connection with other matters at the council that everything is ultimately about growth. The house - to - house problems we face, rent - rent markets, and so forth - are most of the interest involved. As long as it's the real thing and the real interest level in Iceland is completely out of harmony with what's going on in the countries around us, I'd think people would just be very relaxed here while their economic situation is just the way it is and the level of interest is just the way it is. We're way too high in Iceland, as I've said hundreds of times in earlier talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u261	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. I think we agree that Iceland's interest levels are way too high. What I'd like to think about with the senator is that in these discussions it has been pointed out that the difference between what seems to be to be sold or to let men solve this and what was given 2017 is 10 to 12 billion, something like that. I began to wonder if this is just some scheme that could have an unpleasant effect on human negotiations when you see that there's billions of dollars there when they're trying to get money from the State. Then I'm not taking any position on a bargain interview, I'm just wondering. It also says, in the first page of the Committee opinion, that the Secret Bank speaks of the market complaining about the lack of foreign funds in a domestic bond market. Is this bill being treated with the need for a market party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u262	Mr. President. Here's the magazine I was looking for, so I'm glad you didn't take it with me. This statement in the committee opinion is that following what is going on today's problems, the situation will not be resolved, they say: Then, at the time of the bill, the cost of a foreign stock market will be reduced more than expected at the time of the bill. Of course, there are other ways to solve this problem, and in that order, it would be to reduce the number of influx seas that markets have made significant comments for a long time. If the market believes that there is a shortage of foreign investors into the Icelandic stock market, then there are other ways to solve it than to end this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u263	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For good talk, Berghirhóri Ólason He was in many ways in a similar way to the above - mentioned speakers. I was going to ask him a question like that, and I asked him why. paritaprevir The request of Birgir's Þórarinsson after this time, about this date, which was stolen from me. It's all right, it's a question like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u264	Just ask again, that's new information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u265	I asked why. Þórarinsson The answer to why February 26 is the date and why this tremendous speed was moving. So he said: " It's hard for me to say, but it might be a reason. The head of the Economic and Business Committee that might answer that question. But he hasn't been seen here. I'm still gonna let myself, though, because I can see that it's staring at my eyes. A senator, asking him the same question as this: Is this an answer to me, or can he guess? Then I'm gonna come up with some interest in the second answer. We're always dealing with high interest, and I'm going to come up only with interest, and as the nation trusted representatives of the council to work for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u266	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Although he asked her earlier today, I'm glad she came back. I was just now pointing out what I hadn't noticed during my first tour of the committee, which says, with the permission of the president, on the date of February 26, which is today: A review to the Committee highlights the importance of the submission of the bill before the date of the pay date for a certain rate of the Reichletters that arrives on February 26, the second. Here is the importance of the implementation of the bill prior to today's pay date. So the late bank is saying that if this is not done yesterday, heaven and earth will literally be destroyed. Not today -- no, yesterday. I don't know that anything happened today suggests that investors were freaked out when they realized that this case hadn't been completed last night. This won't hold any water, this time pressure, and it's somehow a lie to watch it here - if the government takes those confidential words of the Federal Bank, about the importance of paying the bill before the payday, today -- that this should have been scheduled today. This is completely incomprehensible. As was said in some context, and I hope that the President will not reproach me for it:
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u267	Nevertheless, the president reminds us that Icelandic is the matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u268	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. In fact, I had seen this in the committee's opinion, that threat, it was kind of, and she still leaves me in a void. I was thinking about growth and stuff like that. Hv. A senator spoke of the need for those who had that money. How might we contribute to a high interest level? Do the pensions play in there? What does the senator believe that the giving of the Council Bank in this case cost the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u269	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson's son. Of course, in Iceland, real - life is the highest known in the Western world. Personally, I consider it one of the most important tasks that politics and all the environments involved in the growthist regime must be handled. Of course, 3.5% of the real - life interest rates of pension funded funds place a set floor in the total bank of the publishers on the trip and while at that time can be reasoned that the debt of homes is paying extra payment in their pension fund with this very high interest requirement on the documents published by the funds. But I have to come to my talk afterward if I find a way of counting on the damage that may be done in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u270	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize on the treatment of crowns that depend on the specific limits and currency laws, i.e. ... theexploitation and commitment to capital flows. The bill is that the owners of a national bank are now allowed to take this money out of bank accounts that depend on the specific limitations or to release the Huns Bank's deposit to buy in foreign currency. I'm going to explain this a little bit more by going to the paper with the bill. It says on the main subject of the bill, by permission of the president: The bill suggests changes in the law of No. 37/2016. The aim of these changes is to clear off-country sources to assessment accounts that depend on specific limits without compromising the effectiveness of binding because of budgetary support. This is done in three ways, by permission of a president: First of all, aggressors will be authorized to take out foreign property (in the form of an deposit) from bank-based accounts, or the innuendo of the Federal Bank, to purchase foreign currency from a financial company in the country or an international stock exchange and to move to an account in a foreign financial company abroad. Later, says: Since November 28, 2008, it is suggested that landowners who have had any leftover property continuously from November 28, 2008, i.e. when capitalists were placed here in the country, they will be allowed to take an off-country account on the specific restrictions or complex fields at the same time. Counts 5 and 6. The law of the Off-country holdings after receiving confirmation of the Federal Bank on the implementation of continuous ownership requirements. And yet later: Third, it is suggested that persons who are registered to national property will be allowed to record up to 100 million. K. of accounts dependent on specific restrictions, the source of confirmation by the Federal Bank that an individual is the real owner of the money. This warrant includes the deposit and deposit documents of Iceland's Sensitive Bank (U.S.) What is this? What's underneath here? That's 84 billion. The changes proposed by the bill include a substantial increase in the resources of the Off-counters for the provision of these assets within the country. The changes result in the release of all the landowners by buying a foreign currency, they choose it. This is Mr. President, in effect, what we're discussing here. The report on the bill also says that this is one of the final steps to defuse capital capital capital. It is totally unclear why this issue is being attacked today and why the original objectives of these African stocks fall away. Why, Mr. President? Why? What was my original goal? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And who are these owners? Let's not be surprised. Owners of this category - the last - are just the ones that have not wanted to yield, those who have been the longest on the redness, the most ruthless of whom have been dealing with the difficulties that Iceland has had since collapse. Maybe the same guys who bet against the crown before crash, but they're making a lot of money with these things we did. Why are we giving up for these men? Why now, Mr. President? Is this because there is enough money in a treasure? What, then, can be said of the plight of those who live in disability and struggle to draw life out of poor pensions? Is there enough money for them? You want to hand them something? No, let's pass it on to the hedge fund, the faceless international wealthers who know their business, who know how to turn, yes, let's not say pig-bathing, the government of small countries, and take out their profits with the highest yield. It's a prominent surrender, Mr. President. The reversal is screaming, turning from its original objective, letting the hedge fund pay a higher price for currency. That was the original goal. Some types of contributions to Icelandic society, which suffered a great shock at the collapse. We have this reward for the most vicious hedge fund. Here we can look at a structured retreat. It's like watching a race. Homeroom's doing great. It's doing pretty good. But what happens next? Homeroom doesn't show up for the second half. They're in the dressing room and they're shaking. It's a post-mortem. From their point of view, it is a complete victory - an ipon, as it is called in judo. You would also think that such a matter would draw attention to the council and that the government's opposition would all help to criticize this bill and ask the members of the council more about it. No, there's no interest here. In the hall now only members of the Middle Party are members. And in side rooms not any man. Yet, there was a problem. paritaprevir Einar Kárason, who could now have suggested a lot of things here. What is this about? It's about Iceland's interests. Why not take care of Icelandic interests? And what kind of money are we talking about here, Mr. President? A billion, even tens of billions. The interests in this matter are billions of people. Is there enough money? Is there enough money for the aged, for the better of disability, for transportation? We haven't talked that little about transportation. There have been an argument of some 10, 15, 20 million days, and for weeks. A number of millions have been affected by the government's situation on individual projects. But what about now? No interest. What are we talking about? A billion, even tens of billions. I'm surprised, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u271	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason in excellent speech. As I mentioned in my own talk earlier in my discussion, I'm most concerned about the messages in this follow-up, i.e. message to the future members of the people we have to deal with regarding national and national interests. There's a message to them that there's only a fine chance that the Icelanders could slip down at the end. Therefore, it is best to hang like a dog on the redness to the end and see if it does not work out. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he feels that such a message will take place in the future interest of the government and the Senate on behalf of the Icelandic nation. Will it diminish her credibility and even make it more difficult for us to reach contracts that would otherwise have been possible if the developer knows that we are likely to get over it? I'd like to hear the senator's position on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u272	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. In view of what happened before 2008, this is exactly what the senator has to worry about. The Icelandic economy is naturally an extremely small, easy victim. It's not such a big deal for the rich, the hedge fund that holds hundreds of billions of dollars in the railing and sees the hope of money somewhere in the world, especially in a small country like Iceland, to bet against the crown, as many people did before a crash, and to profit from it. The amount of money in this country is small enough to allow this to be quite practical, and especially, as well. A senator rightly points out, when the examples are in front of him, i.e. the government's well - established dealings with this fund. If this is the case at the table, as an example of how to turn down small nations, as we see today, the vultures are quick to smell the blood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u273	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's exactly what I'm worried about. There's a senator coming in so well. They can taste the blood. If we had a similar combination of governments from another point of view - say five to seven years after a collapse, it doesn't matter everything - before the part of the plan started, which turned to an off-country, probably no debino owner would have participated in any part of that process, knowing that people would give up, men would always go down to the end, offer a better and better mollust, better, better - and better - win - better - better - and better - there would be a better way to get a better way out of these crowns in the seas. That's just what I think is so important to me that we're going to blow this whole thing off. We're supposed to send out the message that we're on our feet, finish the plans we're about to start, and there's some bite coming from the Icelandic government. The money has no respect for anything but toughness. The money doesn't come to us because we're so little and cute in us and get down. The money only comes to where it's best for them to be once, taking into account interest, risk, and commitment times. The senator's view is that men are giving away a future contract by showing such weaknesses, and I agree with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u274	Mr. President. I want to thank you again. A senator for the questions and such reflections. I agree with the senator that the Icelandic government, as they did over a period of time, shortly after the collapse and in the time of the government of Sigmundur, Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, must send a clear message into the outside world and to the hedge Funds that they will be a success. They had to understand. Otherwise, of course, they walked on the track. They won't yield. These hedge funds do not give up just because we're such a sweet nation. That's for sure. True, we are a small nation, but they give nothing. We have to get up. These same people - think of them in some cases - bet against the crown here before a crash, took a huge profit when the dollar fell. Then, perhaps just a few weeks later, or at most a few months later, they bought demands here in the country at a level of total degradation, as low as 5% or even less. Now they are taking them out, those who are not yet finished with such a profit. We'll just shrug off, we'll give up. We're wearing the costumes. We're not in the playground.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u275	V.E.G. President. You can back up to 2016, in particular, for the beginning of that year. At that time, as reported in the news, a $250 billion tender invitation was scheduled. It was claimed that it was important to have the right time, to keep a plan, and to keep the invitation as soon as possible. In particular, it was stated that four boils were in the hands of a so - called great - country pet, such as men have mentioned today. The requirements were rigid. On the one hand, the harbor bank would have a currency auction, where an amputee would pay a considerable strain on a passage out of the seas. However, a version of a bond letter in a bank to 20 years of age was referred to as being in harmony with the population's payment, the first seven years of passage, or the average bond for a long time in the euro. Those who did not accept these conditions ended with their crowns on no interest. On May 25, 2016, Iceland's secret bank announced that a currency bid would be held on June 16, where the bank offered to buy crowns in exchange for money in foreign currency. In particular, there were crowns that met the definition of law No. 37/2016, so-called birthdays. It was advertised for Thursday, June 16, 2016, beginning at the end of the day. 10 o'clock before noon, and should be until about ten o'clock. 14 the same day after lunch. It was a part of a comprehensive budget release strategy, as per the Iceland Government and the Federal Bank on Emissions Since 2015, June 8, that year. Then, a few days later, the S.H.I.B. changed, but the change consisted of a longer delay, according to Article 13. In order to submit a price assessment of foreign property other than those in the form of cash, bonds, and money exchanges by the government of Iceland or by the responsibility of the Icelandic government. The deadline ran out at the end of the day. 15, 2016. But it's not over yet. Again, the late bank changed the invitation, delayed the invitation for one day. Then the change in wording was 4. The terms of the sale are to be set aside to form the minimum possible price exchange for European markets and market prices. Furthermore, 5th parr. The tender terms changed in accordance with the changes in Article 4. and that there was no longer a divorce in Article 5. to give the bids below 190 k. the euro would be rejected completely. At the same time, news came and threats from the hedge fund. They threatened to pursue the United States, but the then financial minister was still on the right track, even though the Navy was hesitant, really leaving behind. At that time, the secretary of finance said that he was going to place the owners of an off-country situation. News reports at the end of May 2016 revealed that government representatives met the owners of an African country in New York City. Commenting on the case, it was said that deecutors might expect to get their possessions at a slightly more favorable level than 220 dollars. Everything worked out fine. A news release by Iceland's Secret Bank, published on June 21, 2016, reported that because of the findings of the currency bid on June 16, an offer was offered to purchase at the funeral of 190 k. on every euro leftover property not sold on June 16. To make a long story short, this was good news because what happened was that the auction had a good effect on Iceland's credit rates. Moody's credit company thus evaluated the situation, said the invitation relievedly on pressure, and said the timing was correct. Then something happened, and the State began to yield. It was from the middle of a year, even on the autumn days of 2016. That's when they started to talk about selling at 165 bucks. The hedge fund saw an opportunity in that situation. Then the secretary - general of the Sensitor's financial status expressed his view that foreign funds could be released in exchange for currency from the bank's reserve at the succeeding 160-170 k. For every euro. Of course, it was the personal opinion of the Commissioner for financial status of the Sensian Bank, but this was of course news to the owners of a national bank. During the autumn months of 2016, governments were replaced, and representatives of the largest African owners immediately hoped that the Icelandic government, who would accept them, would be willing to let them out of the country's better goings than they had ever had at the Sensian currency supply. This was shown in the news of The Finished Times. Then Icelandic officials went to the hedge fund to negotiate with them. Then they were told that they could get paid at a considerably more favorable level, or they could be at a rate of 1,30,440 k. It all worked out. Iceland's interests were destroyed. A new financial minister who wanted nothing to express himself about the meeting said the matter was in the process, and it had come to the point where things were most marked by inactivity, as they now do, in total government surrender. After reading news of this time and news announcement received from Iceland's Secret Bank, I wondered what could have been done for those lost funds. We heard today that the occasion is sufficient. We hear the desperate wait for correction. We've been over here very much discussing the death of a cent, which might have been possible in case only the government had thought of an end. A new national hospital might also have been discussed. We've talked about the need to find a new place. If that were the case, people would have been able to spit their palms in their hands. Now the government on the sideline is building collective agreements. Governments have a lot to do with it. The government could have turned down insurance fees for an enterprise so that the pay of employees could be increased. It would have been possible to make the health system more efficient and to finish here this time, you could have made serious agreements with farmers. As the situation is now, it is the only class that seems to be to be left behind, even now that negotiations are being made with all other classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u276	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech. It's going well in Iceland. That's what we've seen and heard. At the same time, the air is shining, just like the head. A senator came in. Companies are available and running, or should be in place, negotiations between key parties in a general labour market. But even though a year goes by, we are always looking for a small amount of money to do things, and as shown today, including the following: When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, accounts for a considerable amount of money on what seems to be being done to invite people now and what was offered in 2017. Hv. A senator mentioned, if I recall correctly, 103/411 billion, and for them there are many things that can be done. I'd like to ask the senator if our position is really so that we can say that 103/411 billion or that 8 billion is not important in the big context, because it is better to finish the problem - or what they call it, I don't call it a problem - in this way and leave behind to the sides so that they can take money out of the price they've been waiting for a long time. Let us not forget that they have been waiting a long time, and patient, with the ability to take their money from here at a price suitable for them and not for us, not for the Icelanders, the Icelandic State, or the Icelandic public. Therefore, the basic question is whether we do not remember 5 billion, 8, 10 or 11, that we need all our resources in order to improve or to meet the expectations we have, in order to help with the collective agreements, into the housing, health issues, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u277	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson very much. A long talk can be answered. I don't have much time, so I'm just gonna think about what I'd do. My first task would be to take a crown off against a crown. We've talked about 1.1 billion, I think it was raised to 2 billion recently. But let us say that it has reached a total of 2 billion of 81⁄210 billion. Then there is the need to provide additional financial support to the health system, which cannot be done differently than reorganizing it. I've been looking at what is being done in Denmark and there are men with so - called Super Hospitals, some of them in the country, but outside they have other hospitals where joint replacement procedures, eyestones, and other procedures are carried out that have someone to look out for. We could go that way. We could just look at what needs to be done. I understand that this is the case today in the health system, especially within the clinic, which should be the first stop, that everything is paralytic, that people can't get to the doctor. I'd start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u278	A respectable president. The talk was given. A senator that the administration from mid - 2016 to hedge funds may have cost us considerably more than the numbers we nose. I think it is important to hear from a senator whether we are in the same place when it comes to our criticism, primarily that humans have not stood up and followed the proposed and approved 2015 program, reminds me to finish this case properly. It is of great importance to our credibility that we can go out and say - and I will introduce it in a talk afterwards: We decided to go this way for our country and nation, and we will not compromise. Is it a sign of lack of self - control when it comes to giving in to those who are more patient than we are?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u279	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sveinnsson in the back. Of course, this must be a sign of lack of self - control. This also suggests giving up. As noted earlier today, it seems to be in the dark why the date here is so great. We were supposed to be done in 45 minutes. I don't understand the rules on this case at all. I can only see it so that the government is giving up on the owners of an African country and just giving some gifts to those I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u280	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your excellent review. But because we're beginning to wonder how much the discount might really be, even if it was only in this traffic, where there are about 83 billion below, if I can remember correctly, I feel as if I'm looking forward to reviewing the discussion at the beginning of 2016, which even came to mind. published by the newspaper reporter Ægisson, a fine article that said that governments would not be able to accept less loss on these invitations than 303/40%, not less than that. This, in itself, harmonizes with its first attempt in June, at the hands of the Federal Bank, and sends out an invitation that the best price a person can get to buy euros at a rate of 190, will not be less than that. At that time, however, the euro gangs were registered around 138 k. So, there's an estimate of about that. 38% stress. If we supported it in the case of these 83 billion, just these 83 billion remaining, I think it's a matter of whether the Lands Bank is going to sell the hedge funds for 83 billion, which is 605 million euro, or 436 million euro. It's going to be 200 million just in this traffic. There are a number of factors that can be done. A senator called earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u281	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason was a great man. You see, this is an amazing turn of events that will take place in the middle of 2016, when the bid was up to 250 billion by the time it was talking about 190 k. Then this goes down to 165, then to 130. Now it would be interesting to know what to put these deportations now, how much reduction has been made, and where is confirmed? We're talking about 83 billion below. We're talking about 200 million. K. Euro. Something else can be done for that. Again and again, I repeat the situation of disability. I reiterate the situation of the elderly once again. I spoke of a new national hospital in a new place, as well as an inside struggle, and especially for those who do not have any agreements. At times, it may be forgotten in this hall that the elderly and the poor have no agreements to run away, and as a result, they may not have as strong a voice or as much pressure as others who have access to some sort of trade and class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u282	V.E.G. President. It seems so quickly to me that while those who have sat for the longest time, those who refused to participate in everything, the price of those who were willing to be on the first track would be as good as they were, it may be expected that the surrender of this round would be about 23 billion. But because of him. A member of the U.S. National Hospital of University found it appropriate to recall that, according to the policy of the Left Government of 2009 ◯2013, those who were stuck with an African clinic were very well fed on interest and were allowed to move them out of the seas. And the mines - when a new plan was introduced, interest payments, income, to 70 billion dollars, or as one new land hospital had been raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u283	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason was a great man. That's an interesting amount. These are very high amounts of money that we could use here to build up, as it is called in the science case. The amount of money I mentioned in the past would certainly be useful, and I do not believe that it is so that people do not feel tired of having it hanging over them any longer. There's something more solid than that, along with this strange act, that we need to accept and enter the law of this case today that no one understands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u284	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I just want to get a second opinion. The senator's comments on page 18 - 21 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 8 in the report. Regarding the effects of the Federal Bank and Penitentiary markets, it is said that the impact of changes in the legislation on the treatment of crowns that depend on the specific limitations of currency markets will depend on the extent to which a proportion of the current deportors decides to switch property into foreign currency and at the length of the business period. It should be noted that inconsistencies are included in the text because of the text on page 24. 7 says: ▪ It can be assumed that landowners, who can take advantage of clearance according to Article 2 and 3. The bill will use them soon after the law takes effect or when they are aware of their increased rights for assessment. This suggests that such possessions will soon be replaced, but it is then said that the length of time is uncertain. But that's not what I was going to ask you. Senator to. It is clear that this will affect the course and on the page. 8 says: "Let the bill remain unchanged that the law cannot see that it will affect the survival of the Kingdom Fund. Hv. A senator is on the welfare committee. Is it not clear to me that this can have a great impact on the state funds, e.g. how to buy drugs that are in foreign currency? [[The president calls.]] It must have an impact on the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u285	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's very good for Þórarinsson's son. Of course it is as he says, this will affect e.g. medicines. I can give it to me. As in 2016, I am not sure that the effect on the course will be negative in itself. When the invitation had happened, we just got a higher credit rating at Moody's and I imagine it might as well happen. That doesn't change the situation, though, that we are missing out on a considerable amount of money that we could have used in all the things I listed earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u286	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator said that the difference between the gangs the deportors bring to leave the country, if this bill is legal, is considerable. There is a substantial amount of money, such as why. A senator correctly mentioned, which could have been used for an important project. Then you ask yourself: " Why on earth do humans give up in this way toward those who refused to cooperate with governments and who refused to cooperate with them? Why is this still the case when money can be spent that is considerable? It's talking about up to 12 billion, if I get it right. I can't imagine why the government gives up in this way when there are so much money involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u287	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's very good for Þórarinsson's son. That's a very good question, which I also wondered about. We have the same financier that was on the track during the first part of 2016. I wonder what's different now. By then there were 250 billion below him. Today, we are talking about 83 billion, and he leaves everything behind. He's really giving up. I don't know if it's because we have another prime minister with other emphasis. I can't help but wonder if there's another captain on the bridge at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u288	V.E.G. President. I think it's a little special to be discussing this big case, since only the middle-class members seem to be worried about the matter and the sacrifice of certain interests or resources or both. No one else seems to be interested in that. I wondered about the number of members of the left categories that have come here in a pit and wanted to tax the whole thing into a building to gain more money or to cover higher resource costs. They don't think it's easy to yield tens of billions now to hedge funds. They just think that's okay. However, they have countless ideas about how to pay taxes to support their professional life and even to individuals in their country. It's something special to see that all the classes almost seem to be joining the same club, that there's become some sort of socialist marriage here in the dining room where all other groups and the middle party share in bringing this evil thing through as if it were nothing. It's been a pretty good question now. The hedge funds, known as decrepits, are being reassigned to take them out. They're just finishing that plan, aren't they? Try to take one step in completing the project set up in 2015 as a result of the national problem. In the original suggestions, there was a clear explanation for how this was to be done and how to deal with it. through to the cornea No. 73 in what is called the release of capital stealing, and the Ministry of Economics presented at their time or for those who worked for it. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ The auction method is designed to prevent desserts from being left behind. Of course, because these people have had faith in waiting, they are about to get the assurance, or wishes, fulfilled by what appears to be here in the pipe or is happening. The idea of a time with the pressures they would have to pay to go out was, of course, to make sure that Iceland's state funds and Iceland's money get fair prices after the collapse, as these parties were taking their positions against the crown and country, buying remissing fees, 2355% of their real worth, etc. All of this we know. What may not be new, however, is that you feel that you are now trying to finish it just to finish it. Humans do not have the needed endurance and patience, and they were needed to perform the procedure I witnessed earlier, i.e. Budget emissions programme. It is no secret that it was installed, as a carrot or a stick to get something for it if they did what the State required, otherwise they would be locked up for an indefinite period of time. Some chose not to do anything, to be locked up, or to lock up their possessions, to wait, and to wait. And now it is time for this party to be rewarded by letting them out on particularly good terms in vague hopes of investing in Icelandic bonds again. It may well be that some of them do, I don't think anyone really knows. It's a little special to put it as an argument in the case as soon as people in themselves don't know what this party is all about. It's also been pointed out, like a cot. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason made that these people may not usually take their money to a place where economic conditions and interest may not be as favorable as in Iceland today. But all of this, like any other in this matter, is subject to a measure of uncertainty. I think it's better that we continue our uncertainty, show our perseverance. That the remaining ones will pay just what was set up at the beginning or last time they negotiated because they have been giving in for quite a while. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmund Davíð Gunnlaugsson correctly pointed out that the U-city had been taken into this case. It's wrong to talk like a dog. The head of the Economic and Business Committee spoke here, that these parties have not received anything. It has been observed and missed. In the past, a senator received some 70 billion dollars in the past through the left of the government. to the interest they took from the land. What is it today? That's the big question that hasn't been answered yet. There is no human, no member of the board or any other government group, to discuss the matter. Besides, there's no solid evidence to support why we have to finish this today. It's possible, as we have often seen in Icelandic politics, a localized pressure. They believed in the Icesave case and various other matters that it would just have to be completed, that there could be nothing else, otherwise no human offering, created some pressure on itself, which, of course, was not necessary and it came during the day to be a huge mistake, a bad thing, of course. It's also a question of whether this 3.1% of the following, if you could put it that way, it's important if it's anything we should do, just finish it. I don't think we should just finish this. It has a measure of influence and can affect credibility that Iceland and the Icelandic government have. I well remember the time I took up the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in 2013-2016 that almost no matter where a man came from after this program was introduced and put in place, people looked it up and asked: "How did you do this? First, they said: "What a brilliant game it was to put the law of rescue, that's for sure. But then this solution followed. These are the two points that matter most in all of this. As a result, they asked: " How did you have the courage to do this? Of course, we pointed out and said that the law and justice were on our side. It is not for us to feed this hedge fund or to indulge in them even though they are hungry for money and more money and even more money. It has been discussed how this money, this money, may not be important in the big context and in what might be used. You can talk about it forever, of course. However, it is not just a few senators or politicians who have been concerned about this. This article was written here, I wonder if there is a guide in the News magazine, March 3, 2017. The fine Ægisson of Hörgisson writes that way. I quoted an article from him earlier tonight. With the permission of a president, I'm going to go through this line, for it is actually well illustrated for what was meant. Hörður says: ▪ One of the main reasons for the introduction of systemic relief to Icelanders at the beginning of the year were action taken against the owners of the land. They faced clear options. To participate in the Secret Bank's currency supply, where they were offered to sell their assets for currency in the gangs of 190 cents per euro, or they have to put their money on locked interest - free bills for an indefinite period. Unforeseen time. This is important. And continue to write "Hörður." ▪ The U.S. investment funds that owned the majority of these capitals chose the latter and went to the back of the story. These measures were required to facilitate the possibility that national property could cause instability while opening for Iceland's capitalization. These same funds - and I remind you that this is March 2017 - ◯, which, together with some 150 billion in deportations, now tries to get governments to change the rules. There, this skilled journalist writes a copy of the News magazine, and if I recall correctly, he is now the editor of the Marketer, or at least for a while. Here, he points out exactly what was involved. All this time, their representatives, these funds, were trying to get the government to change the rules so that those who went to the back and sat behind would not have to have the same rules or those who fell under the same rules as others. Onwards Hörður writes, with permission from the President: In the week that Icelandic officials had met with representatives of the New York funds to investigate the basis for an agreement that would enable them to transfer property from abroad in exchange for currency. Clearly, such an agreement would mean a significantly more favorable funeral for the fund than was available last year. It has been in the past that the presidents of the U.S. funds were not interested in this situation - and they have used various measures to try to undermine the operation of the Icelandic government. Hv. Birgir Þórðarson's children spoke here, including... that the election was advertised, probably by these stakes, to undermine and affect the outcome of elections. On with President's permission, Hörður continues: However, it is unnecessary to question their legal rights to do so. - i.e. The actions of governments - ◯ endors are the methodology taken in collaboration with the International Cash Fund and in full agreement with Icelandic law and international commitments. The big credit companies have approved the operation and have advanced the government's credit ratings. Then, at the end of last year, the EFTA Center did not do anything with the complaints of the American funds. So if governments intend to disappear from their previous policy at this point and let the funds out of the country on a much more favorable gang than other African owners were offered last year... What happens, of course, is that when you hand these stakes, these scales, and those screeching little fingers, they wait and know that they'll have all their hands, know that if they torture or are persistent enough, the government will make a deal with them. I think that's what we're experiencing right now. Their persistence is greater; it is giving them a more favorable result; it is clearly stronger than the perseverance of the government of the United States. Which, of course, is a tremendous disappointment, for there is nothing and no reason that the ambassadors of the Ministry and/or Secret Bank would attempt to negotiate with these parties. Clearly, what would have to be done to get their money or possessions out, but instead a little finger had to be handed to them, and then one by one. Of course. Onwards Hörður writes, with permission from the President: (Bjarni What Benediktsson are raised in the following article? (b) What questions now merit our consideration? (b) What questions now merit our consideration? (c) What questions might we ask ourselves? There is no way to create a solution for an amputee who does not at the same time include the possibility of a full-salvation operation. No doubt about this is the case with the then prime minister. Besides, it's not about people trying to stop them from going to full length. Those hedges just had to meet conditions. Then Hörður continues, with permission from the President: ▪ There is no need to question these words of prime minister. Iceland's economic situation may never have been better, but it does not mean that landowners are automatically to enjoy that improved position. They have already been treated as special. For years, landowners had the only option of getting out of the water for the investment route of the Sensitian Bank. They had it alone while others, the Icelanders, the common people, were unable to do so. ▪ All situations are now in place to take the step to the full and open as soon as possible the foreign investments of Icelandic pensions, businesses and homes. The government's policy of implementing a work programme for delinquency must remain prerogating the interests of the public - but not of the U.S. hedge fund. I think this fine guide, Ægisson Hardy, from March 3, 2017, is only appropriate today, and it is good to recall him, at least to call for information and to explain what it is as justice and to call for it to be done now. This is not made clear in the bill, nor in the committee opinion. It is sown to some seeds of agitation or fear. It is said that people believe that they will reinvent in Icelandic bonds, etc. There's no other conclusion, Mr President, but that men are in the wrong direction, they're actually giving up, they're finishing some business because it's so boring to fight for them, etc. I don't think there's any other conclusion unless there's a better explanation. Unattainable, members of Congress have avoided participating in this discussion for some reason. Men will surely flock into a council hall just after this to vote on the length of meetings, if I know the senators right here in their offices or at home, they will run downtown and participate in it. I'm fine with that. It's probably an extension of a meeting to talk about this important matter, and hopefully you will just take part in the discussion because it's bad if you don't hear the argument or the viewpoint of those who intend to accept it. They haven't heard from here. They have not been observed, as they were in 1st. on the subject or, to be understood, at these three committee meetings that discussed the matter. Then there is no doubt that this is how it should be run through. There are other factors to take into account if you examine the information presented on these issues, recall them, or pass through the huge corrosion crisis. It is good to remember what the goal was. Then we've gathered news and reports from the Federal Bank and the news on these issues and the explanations that have been explained as to the price change. But it's all at the same well. They started some expedition, pretended to negotiate with these parties or offer them the chance to negotiate, but then they end up in debating creditors, the hedge funds, they've got the tails and hails in the position, they've already had the worst chance, the worst of course, for them but the best for state and Iceland, but now they're going to get the chance of getting over 838.584 billion at something else's fees not worth. One day, someone would have asked if this was fair or if equal justice was being taken care of. I don't doubt that this is going to work, but this is clearly not what men started with, not the policy they agreed on, and not the plan they saw, to Iceland, with envy eyes, that we could go along this way, that we could do it this way while many other European countries, I mention Greece, were almost put in the dust to do what international power and capital owners told them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u289	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Many interesting developments were made there. All I want to do is look at him with great political experience as former minister of foreign affairs, he was known for his stand in that office, and he did not give in return. Is it very respectable, and now the government groups are taking it as an example, especially in this case? I'd like a little reflection. The senator's opinion of how this might affect him, i.e. That the government should leave behind, and these funds, which, as it has been mentioned, came to the fore, refused to play with, stand up as conquerors. The question is, of course, that it paid to show such stiffness and to refuse to negotiate with the Icelandic government, since they would eventually yield. That's what's happened here. I'd like to hear about it from what. A member of a former foreign minister: Does he believe that this could affect negotiations that we may face in the future with other nations? Will they simply think that the Icelanders will always yield in the end so that they do not have to worry too much about it? We'll see, for example. With regard to the EEA Convention and the agricultural status due to the EFTA declaration for the import of raw meat, etc. That's where treaties need to be made. Have we not weakened our position with this issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u290	President. It is natural that when we come to the test and say that we will not be moved, when we say that we have found a route - in fact, no matter what we talk about or what we have the law with us, we have the right to ourselves - if men are ousted in the knees of pressures or threats or what men call it, they can, of course, influence our reputation and our credibility. It is clear that when we set the emergency law, when we rejected Icesave, despite all that was done to try to shove it down our throat, when we set up this budget for the release of capital waste, it was clear that we gained a measure of respect for it in the world of the nations. They looked at Iceland and said, "Wait, how could you do this? When we pointed out that the law and the right, the right of the state to react, to do this, had been on our side, of course, attention was given. I allow me to say that I think that this reaction, what we did in Iceland, has inspired many of the politician, e.g. In Europe, a particular battle spirit. The people saw that they did not necessarily need to be controlled by capital owners, a hedge fund, international institutions. Men could make their own decisions if only they had the courage to do so, using logic and laws, not just laws of the land, but also international laws. That's what we've seen in the subjects I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u291	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good and interesting answer. He speaks naturally with great experience in this regard. That is exactly what we should listen to, those who have experience in these matters. It was very interesting to me at the moment. A senator when he mentioned in his speech that it was just noticed in a foreign field, where he was employed, how well we dealt with this matter of capital capitalism and relations with the demands and hedge fund, etc. So our reputation was good in this regard. And then you said "whipped." Senator also Icesave. There I truly agree with him, our reputation for firmness, and the keeping of our rights is very good. It's sad, but I think this very matter is designed to reduce the fine reputation we have built up in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u292	President. Yes, the danger is, of course, because when the bank crashed, when the economic crash occurred in Iceland, there was a certain reputation, I put it that way. Of course, because we drew a special picture of Iceland and what we did here, especially the British, by setting up terrorist laws on us, etc. This proved to be true, as many times have been pointed out, rightly, perhaps not much refuge in our so - called "friendly nations " when it came to it, we had to apply to ourselves laws, laws, laws, and internationals, and really what we thought was right. At some point, there was a class with the slogan: ▪ Do the right thing, don't tolerate injustice. That group would be happy to keep that in mind. Our stand up, increased trust and credibility in Iceland, and made us back on a ledge among the nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u293	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, Sveinnsson, for the best of speeches. What I would like to hear from the senator's stand on the matter, the minister himself, first the foreign minister, then agri- sea emissary, is that it has attracted some attention and discussion this time, this time pressure that is being put on the subject today. This is made up of a report and an article made up of the committee. Thursday. However, since the judicial hearing was completed, Congress has not met until today. A discussion began at the time. 15:03, markets with bonds at the end of 3:30, and it is described in the commission as the main reason for this time pressure, that if the case doesn't run out today, it's going to be all over. Apart from the strangeness of the committee opinion what is said by the Federal Bank, which, in fact, says that everything will be in force if the case is not completed today. Of course, I didn't have anything on markets today that's significant except for the traditional fluctuations. How do you hit it? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson? Why does he feel that the government is being conducted in this way? For, of course, the government and the highest. The president has full authority over when the case had come in, and then he would have been able to make more time for the discussion than to take it on the program actually after everything was to be in the army according to the UN Bank report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u294	President. Yes, this is one of the things that have not been answered or that humans have not put forth effort, those who are in agreement with this matter, to answer why this time pressure is put on. Why are humans doing this? This cannot be understood by the opinion of the committee and the situation we are today with the issue that it was so important. On the other hand, if humans have promised or said something to their owners about these property they have to keep, we do not know anything about it. We don't know if people just shook hands or said that it's gonna be okay and they're gonna get it, and that's why they're under pressure. I have no idea. No one has been present in a public talk, and in effect, they try to explain the reason for this pressure. I've also wondered-- something tells me that maybe, I can't remember, maybe I've read it over here, that this case comes from the Secret Bank. That they're trying to finish or lighten up a thing there, I don't know. I'm sorry to tell you, considering today's news of the Federal Government and what is going on there, whether there is any reason to consider taking a closer look at the bank like the Board of Banks, I think I'm going to do or write about it based on the reports that have been made. I think, however, so I'll stick to the case and ask you a question. A senator, that the evidence simply needs to be explained why this must happen now and why, on the other hand, this discount is justified.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u295	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. I have to admit, I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. A senator's concern is that he does not understand the time element in today's language. But there are other things that are strange in this, and they don't feel very good about you, as they do you. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who has been a former foreign minister: How about a message like this, giving up on his final meters and getting down with those who were the most difficult in the restoration process after a collapse and according to the plan set up by 2015, what does he think of the message sent by this reversal? Could it be that they could be responsible for us in another later phase interest service?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u296	President. When we presented this great document, the release of capital syrup, it was clear that we were going to be a real champion of Iceland's interests. This was followed when this plan was implemented. We did, and we kept it. As a result, our religion in Iceland grew dramatically, believing that we would recover completely. That's what I'm going to say. After people saw time and again trying to push through the Parliament or on top of the people, treaties that were bad and were actually made to please money owners and international institutions, they saw that we could go another way, and we grew, according to my knowledge, trust in Iceland. No matter where you came in, it was noticed, and then you were asked about how you could do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u297	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for a good speech. The Senator reviewed the scene in historical context and quoted articles that have been written during this period. Similarly, the senator quoted the time when he was living in the State Department and spoke of what we had shown great determination as a nation, politicians, at that time. The Senator also spoke of plan, emergency law, capital capital, and what happened, and then when the senator sat in the government when a plan was taken up for the release of a budget and then set out. Then, in the spring of 2016, there was a minister trade, and then that summer, U-eys were taken. Can the senator tell us why the plan, which was really well done and cool, was not continued? Or I'd like to ask the senator about what's going on today, i.e. The remnant of the Secret Bank, how much it could cost the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u298	A respectable president. Of course, it is difficult to realize fully why the plan was not continued and agreed. I think of a person, and I have the feeling that interest or understanding the importance of the matter has not been so strong. It is clear, though, that there were many who wanted to continue this plan, but it was also clear that there were many stakeholders who saw a specific opportunity in the spring or in the mid - 2016 period of change in government views. Therefore, I think the lesbians of the hedge fund, by the people who owned these assets, had done a good job, they have gradually managed to hollow the stone, which eventually made it possible for people to converse with some of these sources, or with these parties, about how to end this matter in a way that would further please their owners. I repeat, and that is my answer to the second question of the senator: My knowledge is that it is a prerogative when it becomes evident that people did not have the strength to perform it all the time but that it overtook a certain section in my 2016 or more, but then began to negotiate with others. It reduces credibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u299	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. It's a little strange to get it in the sense that sponsors, capital owners, can influence the government on how they should act. It shows you how important it is to have politicians and leaders standing up and looking after the interests of the nation number one, two and three. I'm also in charge of whether the senator could recognize the cost of theward administration of the Federal Bank, whether it's worth the population, whether it's large.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u300	President. It's always difficult to mention numbers. It's based on the criteria given which numbers we use. It has been presented in the public talk to other members of Congress that this may be 8 or 11 billion, or even up to 20◯25 billion depending on what you mean, when it was the time that men started to yield, when they brought up the awards to this section of hedges that were persistent and were sitting here and waiting. Depending on the standards we set on it, what the loss is, or what it is that we miss out on money is thought to be a lot. There's also one thing that would have been good if we could talk here with the council members and those members of the council who intend to accept this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u301	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A conference for the duration of a meeting is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than it is recommended today. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? - Then it's a vote for President's proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u302	President. Now the President has announced that we vote for the length of a meeting that you wonder if there is a reason. It's not 8 o'clock and full leave to be until midnight without having to vote for it specifically to be until midnight. Well, then, the President must expect to stay here longer than midnight, which is a fine thing. This allows members of the Parliament to use a public talk and express themselves on the subject. If it is so important and remarkable, it must be reasoned on why it must be accepted in this haste. Not one person has tried to reason that way in this sermon. I look forward to staying here and listening to the arguments that must have somebody's case, and I suppose that's the case. A panel chairman of the left green comes in a speech, explaining it rather than calling out. The Central Party will support the length of a meeting with a complete mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u303	Mr. President. It is remarkable how much president and others it seems that, in view of the opinion of the greater part of the Commission, it seems, was determined that this case would be completed at the latest yesterday, i.e. before this day comes up, as it was said, for some debt which was made earlier today, probably before the discussion of this matter began. Now, when it is clear that it was not reached yesterday, at the end of yesterday's meeting, it is remarkable that the president is still on, but I am especially glad that the president has called out his entire seven classes and that men are here to vote and hopefully take them as the most part of the discussion ahead of it is an important debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u304	It is pleased that his proposal to make a general impression that a meeting meeting can last longer than expected by the council, i.e. if necessary. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The evaluation is based on the fact that there is still a considerable number of mothers and there is a need to discuss the matter. The President wants to inform us, like at least... Members of the council are aware, and likely they have informed members of their council that as early as Monday before the week, the plan was established that this issue should be put first today and that it would be aimed at making legal laws today. The Council's strategy was such that it was not found here yesterday as we know. The case came out of the committee at the end of the week as a problem was not established at a meeting of presidents with members of Parliaments on Monday and indeed not at the meeting of presidents with members of Congress this morning. The president had no reason to believe that only the plan that had been carefully established and that a thorough introduction might work. The president also made it clear that there was no room to limit discussion or to focus on discussing the matter as they felt they needed. To this end, it seems wise for a president to have a table for a living and even be able to find something longer than midnight if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u305	President. Thank you very much. This is what the president decided at the end of his appointment to report to the council meeting this morning. I asked specifically if there would be anything limited in the discussion because of my view, of course, that the matter had to be discussed. Of course, the president said it wasn't. That's why we're the ones discussing this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u306	V.E.G. President. We're going to discuss a bill to legalize a change in the handling of crowns that depend on the specific restrictions and currency legislation, i.e. national release and commitment to capital flows. An article with the bill is in the introduction, with President's permission: This is the Department of Economic and Economic Communication with the Bank of Iceland. The bill is one of the last steps by the government to eliminate capital capital capital capitals that followed the fall of the 2008 Icelandic financial system. The remaining limits of capital movements and currency exchange can basically be divided into two groups, one by the law on the treatment of credits that depend on the specific limits, No. 37/2016, The report goes on to explain the amount of money, which is, in turn, a category of national property, i.e. Government bonds, government bills, and other letters responsible for the state of 39.5 billion, deposit and deposit of the Sensitory Bank of 36.7 billion and other stocks and membership cards of 7.9 billion, a total of 84 billion. What impresses us about what we have been doing in public speaking this afternoon is the procedure that has been discussed. Before Christmas it was the last day before Christmas holiday to bring it in, a little back door as some said, but it was refused. Then it came to 1st. On January 22, but did not get a discussion, and now we have a discussion, but we do not understand why the matter is not being discussed with us in these enormous amounts and questions that arise when it comes to handling the matter. That question remains unsettled. No one has really come here from the government to answer questions we've been throwing between us as the government, or at least the head of the Economic and Business Committee that recommended the case, could hopefully answer. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke for the commission today, saying, by permission of the President: The bill's report suggests that investors or financial companies who have fulfilled binding obligations on the basis of current laws and financial bills may be expected to change the processing of the bill in accordance with new exports. In its review to the Committee, the Council emphasizes the importance of the submission of the bill before the date for the pay date for a certain rate of the Reichletters to appear on February 26, the second. Otherwise, the amount of available property will increase by nearly 70% or by about 25 billion dollars. The review says: "At this point, large African creditors, who have had their own letters in continuous possession from sea to sea, are likely to reinvent in Icelandic bonds when they arrive on their due date on February 26, will be replaced by their releases from fixed accounts. So many were words. That date appears on February 26, which is actually today. It tells you that for some reason the matter needs to be taken care of, by two discussions today, in order to become law. But the answer is not clear why. Senators have covered the matter far and wide, and I really don't have that much to add, but I just want to review the story in a short story explanation because a speech was presented. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi the son of Sveinsson when he was the highest. The minister of state, that if he had done so in foreign lands, they noticed what the politicians, or government, of that time stood firm and stood on their feet and really stood by land and nation. It's gonna be a natural thing to say right now, or I believe that every man who enters the council feels that way. But I have felt that the past few years and even decades have been involved, and such members are dwindling because they rely too much on government officials and others like them, the sense of responsibility is a little vague. But when the collapse occurred in 2008 and everything went down here, they were put on emergency law, and they have been good for us. Although they were highly critical of their time, time has revealed that they saved us at that point from total bankruptcy. Then capitalists were put on to counteract capital emissions with related damage. The government, which was in 2009 in 20042013, had a major problem there, but they had to say, "I'm going to have to do a lot of work, right now. " Still, I remember when I was at my job at the time that I felt that the determination to focus on the problem completely, so that it would not be doing anything else while, it would just be a tight angle, being a caff in the leak, and achieving a new course. But action was then taken that the lung was not intended for the nation. There was an application in the EU. A great deal of work was started as a review of the Constitution and a board of legislation, and a new constitution was developed and the old constitution was blamed for everything that had gone wrong. In that case, I and many others felt that the focus had gone from the design of the boat, and men would have given it a little bit of evidence that the confidence of the nation, the self - confidence of politicians, was not much. Of course, we had suffered a severe crisis, and we lost a little anger and power, but there I felt that politicians didn't get up and things worked out. The result was that if men wanted to go out into this, they could have waited for a better time. Because I'm talking on these lines, there's one thing that bothers me a little bit, that's what this image of the people means. We talk about how well we have to look, that's a good price. But it is also that if you think only that way, you may not think much of yourself. And because I talked about self - confidence, the nation's self - esteem, and self - confidence, would usually be better built by taking care of one's own family, to think about standing up, and to stand up to one's own self instead of looking good in the eyes of others. I could mention many examples there, e.g. like the latest example now. Now they're talking about whaling and raw meat and such. This is what's on the agenda, as is the case with the highest level. A ocean - fishing minister has published what the Oceanographic Institute has suggested to catch a whale and confirm it at a seafaring minister. Then many people go on tape because we're going to kill a whale and there's no self-sustaining in it and it's only done for one man, who's totally mad at shooting a whale. That's the discussion. But to me, it doesn't necessarily have to kill the whale, but we do know with this version of a possible stock size and what to catch from the stock. And then if someone sees the advantage of catching a whale and getting a good price for it to pay off, it's just the best thing to do with me. But there is an image that goes beyond that. And nations have threatened us with business pressure, and it is said that this is at the expense of a whale inspection, which has not proved itself, and so on. I think we have to stand together as a nation. It is not just to middle - aged men who speak under the mark of national pride when we speak like that. I may well be a nationalist, I'm just proud of it. I love and respect my country, and I want to do it with dignity. And so I was thinking now that when we discuss this matter, we who have been giving talks here feel that we are giving too much attention. It has also been noted in talks that sailing on the coast is now a big debate. The government's tax laws failed to improve the labor supply. But it says the government is down, there's no more to do for you. It will translate this and this, dolphin running up the stairs and inflation and so on. As a result, if politicians do not have the lowest income, they are both painful and angry, understandable. Although conversation is not done at the government table, the government is giving a little note there, showing certain determination to the underdog. It is often that often the strongest way to treat those less fortunate is to be treated. But those who are big and strong, when I talk about money on this occasion, I often go. That's what I call feelings of inadequacy. In recent debates it was noted that we are always dealing with high interest levels in Iceland. Well, that's true, and some people want to switch to another currency, and I don't know what or what. But we in the Middle East have a clear policy in these matters. We had a very clear policy of attacking the financial system, not attacking it, but changing the financial system in certain steps, not by any palace revolution. That's where the pension funds come in. There's talk of a few. The Pensions today have so much money that they invest in companies up and down in Iceland and the average dollar, small companies have not been able to compete with them. The pension fund's investment budget is 3.5%. Many people assume that 3.5% is a part of the height of the arctic growth of the Sensian Bank. I'm sure there's something to it. That's why we've been saying that we have to step up our pensions so hard that they can start investing somewhere but in Iceland, for as much or higher as they get at home. We used to call it that the pension fund had to grow up and work for itself and go back to the big world. The way Norwegians direct their oil reserves that have proved to be very effective was considered. This is something that doesn't get much into the discussion. And many say when discussing the pension fund, leave your pensions alone. But we're not talking about getting involved in the pension fund as such. Rather, we're trying to create them with a situation where they can see the greater potential in investing somewhere else and recovering from a competitive stand here at home, and in the process, they could be viewed as less than growing in all aspects of the financial system, both loans and loans. I see my time is running out. It is fun to let your mind wander in this matter, but your concerns are still there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u307	Mr. President. As mentioned in the debates, why not? I have been one of those who have observed the case and who have been a member of the council hall on the afternoon afternoon. I must confess, because I am a bit of a robber here, that I soon began to try to figure out what was the point, what we were talking about. From the past I understood, and appeared both in speeches and in reply, that it was a bit of a matter that at midnight would run out some delay, at the end of the day of the 26th month, and therefore it would be important to discuss the matter in the bottom and finish it. Then, after many talks were given, one of them came. The members of the council and the saying that this was wrong, that they had received new information, and that the deadline had passed yesterday. Then I began to understand even less. You can understand that there are issues that need to be discussed that have a very clear disagreement. It was considered for a very long time whether to bring down z. Of course, our decision to go to NATO was very long discussed. They tried to protect themselves from the longest laws from this point of view that the social housing system would be decomposed. But even though I listened to this discussion from about three o'clock today, i.e. In the last five hours, I haven't quite reached the point where it's exactly what it's all about. Since I know that these senators are both eloquent and clear, I would like to ask briefly for an answer to what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u308	V.E.G. President. I want to thank the senator for this answer. To correct him, the deadline came out today, 26th, or yesterday before today. That's what we were wondering about, how the trial was, why could it not be brought into the council so that members of all groups could think about it and find out what it was all about? This is the final step of dislodging the head. I mentioned the amount earlier, 84 billion. Why, though, is the world of Congress not put on greater responsibility? Why is it only the late bank and others ask for it? That's kind of what it's all about. We think it's a big, weird thing about such a big matter of capital evasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u309	Thank you so much. That's not a problem. Now it is stated that this was never about any delay, as the first discussion could be understood, since the deadline has passed and it is not about to enter at the last minute because the last moment had long since the discussion began. However, some of the answers are explained. A senator says that the debate is primarily about what this issue is. Since they didn't have it right, it's very understandable that I didn't understand what was in their case, but they have all night to get to the bottom of it, and I assume we'll find out more about it in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u310	V.E.G. President. It's a very pleasant feeling when you don't understand anything about finding someone else who doesn't understand anything about it either. I remember when the bomb exploded and just before, it's often said 2007, and I didn't understand anything at all because I was only at my place of work and watching the news. And then after the collapse, I found that it was very good for me not to have found out anything about it or anything about it, but I just beaked and bloodied my fish. It was to my advantage at that point not to understand anything. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I can really comfort the senator by making it easier for us to understand nothing about anything than men.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u311	President. This is an interesting discussion that has suddenly set out in reply. Hv. paritaprevir Einar Kárason comes to ask the senator a question, which is normal. I think that most people here now, and I imagine that would fit. paritaprevir Einar Kárason and the one standing here. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson, misss a few explanations from those who intend to accept this matter as to why it needs to be approved. We have said that we are concerned about the matter because there is a considerable amount of money being left behind and not the highest interest in the demands. We have also said that there was no explanation for why these things have to be completed after all. A senator rightly mentioned. I'm saying it's a very strange thing. I'd like to charge what. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður over the possibility that there is more here at the council for an intention of accepting a case without having any idea what it's all about. Could it be that we will receive further counsel? I hope that people will use the time they're supposed to give this case to come up if they don't know it and ask questions. Answering is very important. To date, none of those who write under the committee except the chairman of the Committee have spoken up and explained why they write under the heading. Whoever writes on behalf of the United States has not been here to tell us why the matter needs to be accepted, what's so important about it, why it's okay to give up a considerable amount of money, I would say, to the demands, to the hedge fund. So we must ask, and I'll ask them. Sigurður Jónsson to see if we can expect more information in the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u312	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I very much miss the debate between members of the council. There were questions from the individuals listed here and more members of the council about the date and method of the report, provided that it has not had any more time, was not taken earlier, and with the possibility that the matter could be discussed. The thing was to take some half an hour in the discussion today, so I miss it so much. I have to say because of what. Kárason And I told him that I hadn't realized anything that's because we need answers. We naturally understand what is going on here, but there are many questions that we have not found to answer. That's what we're burning for. This is a major change from what was being done in the strategy developed on spring days 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u313	President. The question, of course, is that the demands, the owners of the land, are being cut off to free the money. They will likely be able to pay or sell them for the next day, and if we buy it, the price of which is far too low, i.e. They get way too much for their own cords. They're people who've been waiting for the longest time. These are the ones who have been the most patient, and now they are to be rewarded. You're right. A senator tells us that we miss it and naturally don't understand why they, for example, do they. who write under the committee's opinion or members of their council do not come here to explain why the matter should go through. No one has. The head of the Economic and Business Committee gave a speech but did not argue in any way why the matter had to be accepted today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u314	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. This is the point. We would have wanted more logic and more discussion on the subject, more calmness, more time. Men's speeches today have shown that those capitalists who have money tied in there will not be harmed at all. The money stays there on the interest they've been growing. As we have considered, we appreciate it so that they will not be harmed. That's the point. I have to say, that's the answer I'm going with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u315	Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to be glad that I've heard from a fine council member who came up here and asked what this discussion was for. It is not every day that members of the United States strive to understand things fully. I'm so happy for this, and I'm sure of it. A senator that if he stays here until the night, which is a dream for a senator, he will likely find out in the end what this discussion is and what it continues to do here. I thank you for the speech of the last speaker who was very good. In fact, he noted that we do not realize why this matter is so handled by the tens of billions of people in the United States. Why is it so urgent to run through the council? Even today, people did not realize that the matter would be discussed. They thought it would flow through in half an hour or something. It'd just be a story story, and then it'd be over. This would be approved. They thought it would be agreed that foreign hedge funds would be enabled, just like, to take away from here from 83 billion on a European scale that doesn't compare. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he doesn't think it's necessary for us to discuss it completely and down into the foundation what is going on, what interests are being considered for Iceland, and whether he doesn't feel it necessary for us to analyze this case completely tonight and till night so that all the people will know what is going on here at the Assembly Hall. Why is the sale of the state funds and thus the Icelanders all tens of billions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u316	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is natural that the people will be required to know what the matter is and to get the answers to what has been presented here, and to be sure that they will find many more questions. It is now this way, and I only brought it into my speech earlier, that being a member of the council brings a great responsibility. To me, the General needs to stake his political head. If he goes back to the market, his work will be laid as a foundation in the elections that will be after the election. Sadly, though, overcrowding has developed to the point that the people of generals have become too much of a stamp pads. We often agree here, confident that others whom we believe to know what is involved are right. That's exactly how you don't want to work as a general. You want to make an informed decision and vote or recommend a case, or whatever is going on, informed and aware of the issues involved. It's just that it takes away your motivation and your will and your point of mind to feel that sometimes you're just a little bit of a stamp. That is why we are cruel in this matter. These are no small amount of information. I hope I've answered some of the senator's answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u317	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. You see, I was there in a side room just before that there are also politicians who thought this was our Middle Class party's only funny thing. It came from those who wanted to sell Icelanders into slavery some years ago. The members of the Central Party then stood in their place and warned that the Icelanders had owed a great deal to the future, and our children and grandchildren were paying for the sins we had committed. Hv. A senator correctly admitted that we should not be stamp pads. We're supposed to take our own independent position on what comes in here. That's why I want to add to it. A senator does not agree with me that it is absolutely necessary that the nation that is likely to be fully informed in this discussion of what this matter is and what the consequences will be if it is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u318	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree with the senator and thank him for this answer. The people need the information they need in this case, and hopefully they will last us the night to get to the bottom of it. That remains to be seen, but that's exactly what we're talking about because we're talking about trust in the Generals and trust in the rest and these institutions here in Iceland, honesty and informed decisions based on trust. The people need to feel secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u319	President. I'm glad to see what I'm doing. paritaprevir Einar Kárason is keeping an eye on this. He called earlier for a summary, a special review of the matter, and I appreciate his keeping an eye on it, because I'm just going to try to get a little summary of it. Actually, I was starting to do it earlier. I had traced back what was proposed when the overall work, the operations related to the emissions of capital abduction, was introduced in 2015. I recalled that they had divided into three main points, one of the major operations, about how the problem would be released with a national problem. I outlined it exactly how it was going to work out according to the plan because it was perfectly clear. However, this was the case in the spring months of 2016. I had started to think about how they had even been doing. published by the Federal Bank and, indeed, by the government, because governments have worked very closely with the Federal Bank and have realized that abdicating of the Society is not possible without government access. I've had enough time to start by simply doing this through the Federal Bank's own press releases. I hope afterward there will be an opportunity to go over the matter in other ways, but I'm going to continue this tour, which is based solely on news announcements from the Sylvester Bank, in an effort to show a reasonably tight picture of how things got off track, with the result that we are now approaching a complete government post-mortation to the hedge funds that have shown the slightest willingness to participate in this project that made financial decommission possible. A project expected that everyone would have to participate, all the owners of the country, and the bank's stocks. But I can't help it, because I didn't finish the tour earlier, recollecting what I had recently mentioned from the Federal Bank's announcements. First, at the end of May 2016, the bank finally said that there would be an invitation, the one waiting for us since October 2015. I remind you that according to the original plan, you would have to go to the currency market quickly just so that you would not be tempted to wait any longer and hope that you would simply have to be removed. Everyone would need to be included in the same complete package. Finally, in May 2016, the Navy introduces the invitation in a way that he will appear. I listed how to do that. This entitles the bank shortly afterward and welcomed the positive report of the mood company Moody's loans and issued an announcement on 8 June 2016, where it is still required that this is actually done and said exactly what and how and it is reminded that this is in accordance with the overall budget of funding disposal. As I mentioned, the best price anyone could possibly offer was a 190 k. ... ontheEurope. At the time, the euro gangs were about 138 k., registered gangs. Then, the unexpected thing happened, the day following the bank's decision on how all of this would work, that he decides to change conditions. This is after some conversation has begun with this party, which soon began to advertise a campaign in Iceland in an entirely unprecedented way. They had already begun to progress, for the Vatican provided a basis for changing terms and extending deadlines. Then, just four days before the Councilman announces again that he will disappear from the conditions set -- now I'm about to I came to the place where I was in my last talk - and I say plainly, so I only witness in the bank's announcement, with the permission of a president, with the fact that there is no longer any separation in 5. to offer less than 190.k. Three. The euro will be totally rejected.◯ In other words, it is not necessarily a list of prices, so to speak, that we first issued. It may well be that we can give you more euros for fewer bucks, just try to offer what you like. Without the exact wording. Let's have a few days. No, not a few days, just one day. This happens on June 13, 2016. The next day, the bank tries to explain his point more fully with these adjusted terms and then adds, by permission of the president: The changes in tenders are made strongly that despite the results of the invitation, the OBT may be more beneficial than the table has to offer. Two days later, the invitation is presented. It takes a few days to get the results. And who might she have been? I wonder if there was a great interest in sharing in the invitation after all these hookers from the Secret Bank for compromise. No, they started lighting the bulb. If that was so often done, why not try asking for more follow-up? Only 72 billion or EUR for 72 billion of these approximately 180 who were available sold. They were sold at the lowest price, despite the fact that at the bank's initial announcement, if business did not exceed 205 K. The story was turned aside, and the euro in 190 had been submitted to the story that the bank was continuing to offer EUR for its price, also for those who would not have participated in the invitation, the decree that had been explained to be the final being, the final option of these agents who had remained the longest with governments, to sell their euro, otherwise to the growing accounts. The final deadline was no longer final, and the bank offered to sell euros at 190 k. to these persons by invitations. Then the next day, after the bank renovates again, we're still willing to sell euros at 190 bucks. Even if you have not participated in the invitation. Would that have been of great interest to you? No, people are naturally beginning to realize a particular development in such a way that buying those euros at 190 k was not a great demand. They wanted them to get even better. It is reported that this has not gone as fast as men hoped and postponed the expected extension, yet only 9 billion of what was sold at the Sentiment Bank were added. Then, August 1, August 1, after a change in the cent's gang that it continues to be Europeans for sale at 220 k. You can buy one euro for 220 deltas. There wasn't much sale in it. On March 12, 2017, the Council Bank announces that he has negotiated in particular with the owners of an amputee, a hedge fund, about 90 billion dollars. Of the price of an amendment of the price at $13.7.5 bar. ... ontheEurope. In fact, during that time, it was down to 107.5. [[The president calls.]] I can't get this done, Mr President, and I need a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u320	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this passage and this fine speech. As we know, he has natural expertise in this matter as prime minister, which led to a very important work in these subjects, former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I just wanted to have a little guess at night. A senator with regard to the effects on the crew of the Crown. The effect depends on how much of it buys a currency, and it is clear that this change will affect the crew of the kroner. You wonder, " How does it get into this year's trip? ' It is said that the bill is submitted. because this is the right situation in society. We can see that if we walk, these are the natural high amounts, about 84 billion dollars, it will interfere with the loans of the homes and the population in a very negative way, and we're having a better conversation, so this can have a lot of effect there. In the light of knowledge, of course. A candidate in the matter would do well to ask him to consider whether he feels that there is a significant danger of going along to a significant extent. In the bill, it is said that the bat is well prepared to attend, but it costs money, and it would be good to have thoughts of yourself. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u321	President. It has already been observed by the Federal Bank that it is such a sum that it can affect the crew of the kroner. On the other hand, like a whale. A senator also mentioned, thinking that the zebra is in a position to step in with his currency reserve. The question is, What will be the final cost? In this context, the World Bank's special comment is a bit of a concern because it declares that this bill should have adopted at the latest yesterday, before today's, in the hope that they would be more likely to invest in government bonds. Men who had been stuck here for ten years would jump to and buy government bonds. It's somewhat peculiar in various ways, but it's not reassuring. The economic situation has either become such that it is safe to lift water, remove all the other side effects, the cost, or the loss it will experience in the light of this surrender. This cannot be based on any prospect that possibly and hopefully people will still want to have money here that has been trapped in the seas for ten years. That is why, especially after this statement by the National Bank, it is important to discuss it and this lack of explanations and importance to maintain a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee. I hereby request to the president that there be a meeting between discussions with the bank manager and others to discuss, including the following: That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u322	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and glad that he will take advantage of this discussion within the committee because I feel that it is too downright demeaning on the bill and on the report, the dangers that may arise when this failure occurs in this way for the economy and the events ahead, the tricky conversation, etc. Especially is this what we want, to rock that boat more than has already been done by the loans of the people of the land, to raise, to cause inflation to break free, etc. I think it is very important that this discussion be taken into the Committee and that the matter be fully investigated, and the members of the State Bank are taken to the Committee to explain this matter further. As I said before, I don't think it's getting enough weight on the bill and on the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u323	President. It is safe to agree that this is not getting enough weight in the report. It's very interesting that those who are preaching to agree on this matter, this perfect pension to the hedge funds, which were least willing to cooperate and surrender, those who believe that it is necessary to finish this now, should not be here and explain why. We will see what is involved, but we do not get the explanation for the reason. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, showed up here at the beginning of the discussion and simply read up the majority opinion. Since then, no discussion has occurred, and no answers have been made as to why humans want to go into this post - administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u324	Mr. President. Thank you. For the talk he gave and as an explanation of his answers to the previous question, a senator greatly appreciates it. You see, I'm in the same place as what. A senator not to understand what it was that suggested in August 2016 to advertise euro at 220, get no feedback when the deadline came out, which was November 1st, and then take care of it, ready to sell some stock of the Offhands for 190 bucks, to lower the euro level to 137.5 and immediately sell 90 billion at that level, and 22 billion later, which said 112 billion per 137.5 k. The euro instead of 190 k. This amount of money has been attributed to a hedge fund. That is why I strongly support the insistence. The senator that the bank manager and his men will be put before the Economic and Business Committee between discussions to explain to us what it was that fired the Huns Bank in 2016 and 2017, when everything was on the economic top, to reduce prices from 190 bucks. of 137.5 k. And they shall follow after the way that is now come to an end, to sell the crowns of the land in a fire sale. I'd like to pray. A senator is going over it in more detail so that we can all understand what could have been the basis, for this intrepid system of things was involved by the Sustainer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u325	President. The reason why I traced all of this together through the Scroll Bank's news announcements, and actually didn't quite quite finish, was to show just how peculiar history is and to describe a multitasking process that takes place at the same time as men obviously work very hard to protect their interests, i.e. The hedge fund. There were few of them left. I think it's basically four hedges that can't most of what's left over there. Of course, they used their language in a variety of ways, as they know it, and they purchased services to do so within the country and abroad. So that we see there a long story of sustained retreat, which then leads us to the point we have come to now where the government's will, and apparently most at the General Assembly, stands to give up finals and lifts our heads one - sided so that they can buy euros from the Secret Bank by the Bank of Banks. What amount of money is involved? We've been wondering about that. I'm going to publish a very simple picture in an effort to answer some questions. Senator. If the initial floor was 319 billion and they had been bought in the early 190's, it would have been worth 1.7 billion euros, no less or less, if I wasn't mistaken. I'm gonna go over it better later. I was just scratching it off. If this was purchased at today's gang, 2.3 billion euro to be paid by the Navy, 1.7 billion euro at 190 k., 2.3 billion euro per 138 k. [[The president calls.]] This is no small amount, no small difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u326	V.E.G. President. I still thank the senator for putting the matter into light. You hear the sums of the committee, which has been left behind in the last three invitations and should then submit completely. I put it in my speech earlier that it had the hedge fund, like if we were going to a Leifs station and take out a currency on the way to a foreign land. The good people are going away with $33 billion on this gang. I'm asking why. A senator as to whether he is not the monopoly of taking up this matter overall between the 2nd and 3rd. and to consider closely whether it is really serious to give up about 83 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u327	President. There is indeed a basis for this, for it will end up with enormous interests, just as we have been wondering, by trying to put all the numbers in context of other issues that governments seem less concerned about than meeting these ones. You can, for example. Note that what is put in food production in Iceland, U.S. agriculture, a year, pales in comparison. I feel like I need to take it back up and reconsider. This is hardly in a hurry anymore, since the date mentioned by the Sustainer has arrived and gone. They may think that they are holding hands and not missing anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u328	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. It's good for us to get those things together in our ear so that the core of the road is achieved. I've been telling you earlier in this discussion that what I'm most worried about is the message we're sending away about how subsidiary negotiaters we are, national interests and citizens, in times of trial. The Protestant then knows that the advocates of Icelandic interests are likely to yield, and if they wait for a little while, it is relatively certain that they will get better terms if they disappear. Now was the time. paritaprevir When the plan, so to speak, is started in 2015, Prime Minister Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson has set in motion. I'd like to know what he thinks was the most important thing in the messages sent out to the market, to the developers, to the crew. One man remembers from the 2013 campaign that bats and carrots were spoken of, so I uprooted one of the communicators that fell in that context. I want to know what you're doing. A senator, a former prime minister, feels that it was the most important message to achieve the advent of a lifetime success that was achieved during the planned process, even though humans are lying down in the last record.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u329	That's pretty easy to say, Mr. President. The most important was the ultimate and credible, i.e. to explain simply that it would be this way and that they would believe it. So, for example, during a discussion about the demurrections, there is a tremendous emphasis on the fact that this one auction is a finalist. Current level. The prime minister did not consider it a concern to postpone that invitation at his own time when it delayed, saying: There have been many invitations at the Federal Bank in the past. That's exactly what they explained for the present state of the world. Prime Minister: The difference is that this is the end of the matter, the finality of how the deportations will be dealt with. They can assume that if they play along, sharing in making it possible for society to get out of their heads, they will get something for themselves. But if they're not going to play along, if they're going to be self - indulgent and to rely on government silence in later stages, they have nothing to do with it. Except, it was a government change, government policy change, and we saw how evolution, like I traced it here, changed. In fact, the same was true of the Aion Bank, which was carefully discussed here last year. The same is true there. It was taken by U-flogging and abandoned from the end of the game and to the credibility of the programs that had been introduced. The plan was to result in the realization of the importance of credibility and the finality when governments announce their plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u330	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Then there's the other thing I wanted to get his position forward to, i.e. whether this development in the end-of-the-line scheme, set out in 2015, has a harmful effect on the credibility of the government or the World Health Organization at any given time, in terms of future economic care on large issues. Counts 'em out. A senator that the damage caused by this government's rotation is not only financial but also major interests for the future, at least in regard to a united government that is now ruling?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u331	President. That kind of says itself, in my opinion. Few people are as tough in caring for their interests as they are in hedges. It contains huge amounts of money. As a result, men have much to play to try to achieve their interests, using various means of doing so. We have even. saw that hedge funds, funds that overtook Buy or Acion banks, have been caught paying bribes in Africa. The advice they think is best good, but hopefully, usually within the bounds of the law, though it is not always within the bounds of moral values. We saw it when men went so far as to advertise in a campaign here in an effort to influence the outcome of the election. Now they must conclude that they have had the desired results and that the next time it comes to try to pressure a certain conclusion, they will approach it in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u332	Mr. President. We'll discuss the government's bill to allow and sell them to the owners of an off-country bank trapped in capital capital capital capitals. The crowning property that this change will cover is worth up to $8 billion and will be given the opportunity to free and exchange their assets, to exchange them for currency, and to move abroad. These changes include increased data for the assessment of accounts that depend on the specific limitations, allowing all landowners to be able to free their land property. The sources listed in the bill are three. First, there is a general authority for all high-rent owners to free foreign property to buy foreign currency and move to a foreign account abroad. Second, there is a warrant for landowners who have owned domestic property continuously since November 28, 2008, or for over 10 years, to free the land property from the limits of the law. Third, it is authorized for individuals to record up to 100 million. K. of accounts that depend on specific limits. As we know, as we have seen during this discussion, major steps have been taken in 2016 toward emissions. In their homes and businesses, capital capitalists were mainly released in 2017. In the implementation of a law on the land, national property estimates were about 319 billion, about 15% of national production, but are now assessed at 84 billion dollars, or 3.1% of land production. The report on the bill says that economic grounds are the basis for the release of capital capital capital capital capitals on the Off-country. We've been discussing here only if it's really true, i.e. the presence of these economic criteria. We know that these things have a flash of light. We know that collective agreements are available, chats and possible strikes ahead, land production is reduced, and the number of tourists is visiting the country, etc., so I don't completely agree that the economic leaders are doing so well that it is properly disposed of in this way. Of course, it is normal that the committee will be discussed within the committee and the experts in this field to discuss it further. I've been in here before, any effect on the kroner's gang. They are largely dependent on how much money they buy. Is it a little worried how this can affect the state of the gang? The report says that the steward's well - equipped to deal with this, but certainly it will cost something. Then the question is, Is their money well spent? It's the counterweight action the Navy says could take. It also matters at how long a currency buys. But what's also interesting about this case is that first, it was so that the Councilman gave a discount to those who brought foreign currency into the country, and now there is more service to these same parties so that they can move their money back out of the country after a great profit. Of course, it would be fascinating to know who owns this 84 billion dollars in deportations. Who are the ones who will benefit so much and who have met the rulers with the harshness discussed here, and who will reap it? Of course, it would be fascinating to find answers to that question. I'd like to take a look at what I've been through before because I think it's very important in this discussion to review just how the conduct of these funds was toward the Icelandic government, especially when buying was advertising that was directly directed against the Icelandic government. They did things other than buy advertising. They employed well - known minds, as are called, and ads about the government's position against foreign investors became highly suspicious of the government. There was this phenomenon called Iceland Watch, which, by permission of the President, is run by another systems of thought called the Institute for Liberty, by permission of the president. These people first attracted the attention of the country when they published their message on the Twitter and became part of the Icelandic government. The purpose was clear, to protect the interests of these foreign authorities, who refused to participate in the satisfaction of the Secret Bank. You can, for example. Consider the words in a full - page advertisement published in the morning newspaper. It was the ad inscription: Who pays for public corruption and discrimination regulations in Iceland? There was a picture of the bank manager. The advertisement then referred to one of the research teams in Britain who had concluded that this EU policy, of course, was to be correct and turned toward national sovereignty, was to have prevented 30,000 jobs from being created in Iceland and that the policy would have cost from 5,99 million dollars in national production each year. Then, in the advertisement, one employee of the Federal Bank, he is mentioned by name and said he is under investigation of alleged inherent frauds. All we see is this methodology. It is natural that the government here, the government, should pay the streets of these same parties who have followed this campaign against us that has damaged our reputation abroad. We know that those who have been accused of having an influence or trying to influence elections in sovereign states have even been subject to judicial action. The Russians have been accused of trying to influence elections in other countries, and as a result, judicial action has been used against them. Here, however, we see a very different course. Here we see the Icelandic government bowing to these agencies that have appeared, as if they completely ignore it. I feel very sad and sad that the government is not more harsh in this regard and is now lying flat in the face of these funds. Hv. paritaprevir Einar Kárason, in answer to what was involved earlier, asked him what was going on. I want to answer it this way, like maybe more, that I just think it's a matter of government saying one thing and doing another. The point is, the scale of the hedge - ups came true. A senator said that the seas were originally meant to be valid for several months, but it took nine years to free them. Although still in effect, they have served to reduce the impact at the collapse of banks. This has been observed in discussions about the break-down. It is also true to mention that it is the credible thing that really matters to us. [[The president calls.]] As I say, the scale of the hedge fund was totally successful, and in some respects they were able to break down the Icelandic government. It's very sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u333	President. First, I want to thank the senator for his excellent speech. The Senator mentioned two cowards. One of them tried to influence elections by means of advertising that attacked or opposed governments. The other was likely owner of the above - mentioned concept. I just want to ask the senator if he has any information about or has investigated the final possession of these batteries, the minds mentioned there. It is at least curious to find out if there are people who are very connected, directly related, the great interests there, or whether these parties are, i.e. The owner of the crown property, has simply purchased services from these thinkers. But it was so much more curious. I agree with what. A senator says that it is serious when governments say one thing and do another. It clearly undermines the credibility of the government and the government. We know from history that every time a person claims to be harsh or more reasonable than not, the religion that humans have in the power of the government diminishes. Of course, the same is true of politicians. The same is true of them. All I'd like to do is ask the senator to consider the effects of government failure. Then I'd like to ask. A senator on the budget board, whether it is strange that no front president of this case should come up here and try to explain and answer the questions that have been raised on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u334	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer, starting with what he concluded, that there should be no participation of other political parties in the debate than in the Central Party. That's very strange to me. The only member of Congress to be addressed by the United States is a deputy senator. I have to say, as it is, I am surprised to know that the organization that has now given way to caring for the workers of this country is not worried that our currency could be affected by serious setbacks if this were going to work, and it would result in a gross disrespect for the public. As with the budget board, I'm very surprised that e.g. The chairman of the budget board is not to participate in this discussion because it is quite clear that this bill will affect the budget. We're good to go. Recently, the Ministry of finance attended a meeting of the Commission that involved risks in the budget. There is no mention there. It's just a big risk. It can change the terms of the financial process. Finally, because of what. A senator said something about hunches, and I know that much of these cowards are run for sponsorship. It seems simply to me that I suspect that the hedge funds mentioned here will strengthen these minds and that it will be useful to get them to deal with specific issues and to try to influence matters according to their heads. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, yes, I believe these ideas can truly be linked to the authorities involved in this story. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u335	President. I thank the senator for the answer. He mentioned the risks and the budget. I don't know why. A senator remembers, but I wondered if the changes here are being made have any effect on current financial plans or can influence the financial program that soon comes. Because now I simply can't remember what men expected of coming out of the invitations in the relevant program. There must have been some money in there. You wonder, " Is this really a way of doing this or not? ' It's more speculation. What I want to ask you is why. The senator's comments are: It's been a good time, including a good one. of what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, history, and news announcements since May 25, 2016, May 30, 2016, June 8, June 9, June 13, etc., considering how the Navy has repeated or given a discount of the original program. What can explain? Why did the bank in June 2016 begin to disappear completely from what had been advertised and approved in May of the same year? What makes a person bend like that in his knees at this time? We've seen no basis for the change or development that happened there, let alone that we've had evidence or heard from the supporters of this bill, those who put it in this hall, what it is that makes it necessary to agree here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u336	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. You see, this is very interesting, and I especially thank him for making this statement. This has not received enough attention in my opinion, how it is constantly yielding. This is something that needs to be straightened out by the Committee to get members from the Federal Bank to answer what they were doing when they were constantly being yielding. It was actually a fall from its original plans, and then all of this affects our credibility, which really matters. There must be some argument back there, and we need it up there. That's it. That's it. If I get to the budget a little closer, I've never heard of this in the financial process and especially when these risk factors were covered. It was there, for example. In particular, consider the conclusions made by the U.S. legislator on disability and those who have lived abroad, and that miscalculation has been calculated, as measured by some 3 billion. This is specifically stated as a risk, but then we watch that there are 84 billion leaving the country. Is that not a risk to the currency position, for example? Besides the fact that if these original gang plannings were being followed, maybe we're going to be 12 billion and there's nothing to talk about. I find this very strange, and I have to say again and again that I am surprised that those who are on the Board of Staff Committees do not participate in this discussion and have become involved in it in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u337	Mr. President. Surely, it is not unforeseeable that this matter is discussed in connection with a currency market and a financial plan. We know it - I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for his fine speech - a member of a budget board, even though there was a pause, that financial plan, a basic tool of the state, is built on various terms and includes the gangs of the crown. What does the bill say about the effects on the crews of the kroner? Let us see. By permission, Mr. President, says on page 18. 8 in a report, in subsection 6.3, influence on the Sentencing Bank and Pension market: ▪ The impact of changes in CIN treatment laws dependent on specific limits, No. 37/2016, in the currency market, we will be able to know the truth - at this point, the largest part of the current African currency decides to switch property into foreign currency and over how long the trade takes place. The second bank has enough currency reserves and is well equipped to cope with short - term distances in the currency market. Mr. President. That answer does not exactly say anything. There's no information in this answer. The cost of the currency is not measured at any rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u338	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees with what he said here. I know he's talking about knowledge. He's a Ph.D., and we were partners in a budget committee, and I know that there's a man with a lot of knowledge and experience in these matters. I thank him for coming in so well because it's very important. More importantly, there is an inconsistencies in the text of this report. Hv. A senator quoted in section 6.3, on the influence of the Federal Bank and Pension market, and concluded that this will depend on how much of the current African owner decides to switch property into foreign currency and over how long the trade will take place. However, this verse says on page 22. 7: ▪ It can be assumed that landowners, who can avail themselves of a release. Number 2 and 3. 1st par. The bill will use them soon after the law takes effect or when they are aware of their increased rights for assessment. This is interesting and shows that there is nothing clear on the side of the judges who present this bill, how this will affect the currency and the status of the crown. And this inconsistencies underscores the fact that this has not been given any concern. We know that the sum of dollars, her position, is all that lies ahead in the economy and at the same time, as is the case today, is going to leave the country of 84 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u339	Mr. President. There's good reason to tie up this point. Tremendous work is put in financial planning and coverage, first of all, in the preparatory phase of the Council and then at the scene of the General Assembly - amazing meetings in the budget and then very extensive discussions here at the conference. It is the principal success of the crown's leading gang and has a major impact on the progress of various factors in Icelandic national society, the nation's financial life. These include job companies and households, potential effects through the index, which are consistent with changes in the kroner gangs. No other conclusion can be drawn than that this is the way that the bill is somewhat missing in all preparations when more than four and a half lines of paper are placed in writing, and then I'm referring to it on page 20. 8, but perhaps five or six, if you take with you what is said on page 18. 7. So preparation by those responsible for this bill is naturally inadequate, and that is part of a responsibility. There are other factors, as discussed here, that call for increased explanations. Maybe I'll come up here later to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u340	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator agree wholeheartedly with him. Clearly, this bill is not working properly. I have to express my amazement and disappointment by the moment that the committee's chairman, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, had read here from his report, gave up his quick case of action and has not been seen since. Now, if it's so important, I have to say that I don't understand how this can be done in this way, there are no people here to answer certain questions. I would normally have thought that a minister of finance would be present during this discussion because the matter is large and much and will affect all the financial and financial work in its entirety. If that continues, these parties will be allowed to go out with their crowns and switch them to their currency, resulting in great pressure on the crown. We know how this can affect the loans of the households, such as the court. A senator rightly mentioned. I must say that I'm disappointed in it, and it's very strange that there are no more political parties here at the council that are involved in this discussion. I mention, for example. The union, which doesn't seem to have any interest in this matter. Likewise, there is no interest in their prayers for this matter. The media has not expressed themselves on this matter. So I have to say right now; if it's so big and it's so urgent to accept it, why are these classes, or their representatives, here, not to answer questions and comment on this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u341	A respectable president. Hv. A deputy member of the United States, Einar Kárason, came up earlier, trying to figure out what this is all about. He's a bit of a pity to have trouble realizing that, but he's not on the economy and business board. Because I'm suggesting that he's been following all the discussions that have been discussed, there's only one way to share our discussions in the media that have been conducted today. On January 22, one discussion was held. It was a story story of the highest order. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, seven minutes long, no answer, no speeches. Of course, this is explained by the conditions that existed during that day. What caused that strange sensation was that it was also spoken. to make changes in the law in a retrospective manner. The situation was more than slightly strange and was the highest. Secretary of finance, seven minutes, no discussion. At the beginning of the discussion today, at the time. 15,03, was the head of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson, with his talk, six minutes long, did nothing but read the report of the committee. We do not have an explanation for anything in the matter, why time pressure is so great, how the crews of the Crown are affected, and so do many other things. We're completely in the dark. If we look at the bill itself, chapter 2 of the series is the subject, subject and requirement of law, nothing more than a review, a historical review of how those cases have developed. There is one paragraph in which the point is that when the Cronological Act was set, it was calculated that they had a limited life span, which is the most natural thing. It is all the necessity of the law. The fact that everyone is aware of puts no time pressure on this matter. It is all worked and presented in a way that indicates that a person does not want to discuss its contents. This is unfaithful. The discussion has been a complete design. From all members of the administrative body, two talks have been made, and all other talks have been given by members of the Central Party. There has been no discussion of this case among all members of the party, not alone, and these are the reason. Councilmen who ride out here day in and day in, accusing the government of giving down tax money from here to there, that it is being given to the owners of the feast, and to the nomadics. The ban gets out of them day in, day in, day in, and then there's real numbers here, and then there's no word. I don't know if they don't know if they don't think it's important or what. If we look at the context of the section, the figure is 610 million euro. By permission of the president, on page 26. 3 on the bill: ▪ At force-separation of the Law No. 37/2016 estimated 319 billion dollars. about 15% of GDP (VLF). It is estimated that on October 31, 2018, the total financial level of national property studied some 84 billion dollars. or about 3.1% of VLF It's 84 billion. Today at the end of October, 83 billion are equivalent. On March 12, 2017, the Navy signed a contract of 90 billion to African creditors on the gang 137. That same day, the euro gang was 115 K. During that time, the leftover creditors have apparently felt that the above price they considered acceptable was 16.4%. It may be reasoned that this was a major factor due to our representatives in the interest guard at the time, but there are 16.4% of the losses taken by an African owner in the trade of March 12, 2017. If we transfer them 16.4% at 83 billion bucks. The last step, in question, is 13.6 billion. I think it's amazing, with these numbers underneath. If only we could achieve the results after the men had backed back and backed up on March 12, 2017, if only the difference between the two people would be replaced by 83 billion would be 13.6 billion, compared to the group that is being seen today. 13.6 billion. A speaker will now be moved a little. I was going to watch the highest. The first vice president of the United States General, who has grown a little since I last looked at him and has become dark hair. But these are the figures that make it all right but to return the case to the Economic and Business Committee between discussions, as well as debates. paritaprevir Captain Davíð Gunnlaugsson, a member of the committee, requested earlier tonight, so that there is no comment on the president's appearance, taking it up and backing it up from this post. From such a situation, I'm sure it's a backside. I don't understand how members, members of Congress who feel that all taxes are the property of the state, and the sort for releasing taxes, giving away the rights of the state, because those groups, group groups, group groups, believe that all taxes are the property of the state, and not the self-rich of companies or individuals, how the groups that talk through a much lower amount than those that are marvelously unable to hold one single speech when 13.6 billion are under the ratio just, the gang discount of business owners on March 12, 2017. These are real numbers. I just don't think it's a good idea. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Óli Kárason Kálmson, doesn't come here and review it with us. We have certainly tried to get answers: What is the urgency of the times? What are the expected effects on gangs? Why on earth are they doing this over their heads? V.E.G. President. No one has explained it for us, not for any man. The last time people decided to throw 13.6 billion away, the enemy caused some discussion. Is this because men don't think they're getting involved? Maybe so, but it's best if we stay here until someone who's willing to respond to the site. I see a special group member of the side hall who could probably come up and explain it to us to some extent, but I'm not sure that they've put themselves into it. They're our best people, except for us sitting in the audience. I want to reiterate that I don't think there's anything else in this situation but to send the case back to the committee, pick it up, back it up, and stand on your feet. [[For example: The committee has discussed this.]] It's perfectly normal not to be so overwhelmed. I hear from the side room that the committee has discussed the case. I think the dog. A senator who shot it out of the side room had not arrived when I outlined all of the director's speeches on the subject. There's two of them. It's the highest. A financial minister with an enforcing speech up to seven minutes, with no answers or talks, and then a chairman of the committee with a six - minute talk that ran out of the hall as soon as it was finished. Of course, this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u342	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your talk. You wonder why there is no desire for the followers of this bill to come here to explain it to us and possibly to get us to join them and to support this bill, if you can explain it in a way that there are some opinions. It hasn't been tried. This is where the article was read. Otherwise, it has not been discussed in this hall, in this discussion that began at the time. Three, 4:30. This has not been discussed by those who are following the bill. Hv. A senator gave an example of the figures of 13.6 billion, which we could most certainly benefit from. Transport, for example, or something else. Men don't pick up like that from the street. Is there any explanation why this does not come of any human to explain the matter in order to answer the questions we have asked? Why is this so urgent? Do people really believe that this is the effect the SERVANT speaks of in his review? There are no horrible effects mentioned in the bill itself, so I know. How does this affect financial planning? Does this have any effect or no effect? Does this affect interest levels in the country? Does this affect the currency's success? What, then, does that mean for inflation? There's no attempt to put any numbers on it. You wonder why it is. Is it not simply a matter of taking an interest in the attention of freshmen? Are people merely satisfied, or is it because they have no knowledge of it or are not willing to enter it? Because it's a big deal, of course. This is part of what started here trying to rebuild this country, i.e. To recover as much from the wealth that otherwise had and to leave the country in the pockets of these scales or of the owners of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u343	Mr. President. Yeah, when a big question is, why doesn't anyone want to answer for this? I don't know, of course, but I suspect there's no particular interest in this bill's supporters to talk about it now, finally, when some discussion has taken place. There has been no solid evidence that rests on why humans should pass this perfect surrender, surrender. Yesterday's deadline, based on the review of the Federal Bank, seems to have had no effect on today. There's nothing urgent. There is no deadline for the legal process or the rule itself. I think it's a mixture somehow because people don't bother and don't want to get involved. Then I'll be ashamed to say it. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. I think, to some extent, people have gone so well, the programme's been going so well since 2015, that men think they don't need more. Then I remind you that there are only two months or 10 weeks since the men were here and that there were about 100 million here and 100 million in the budget. Only with the gang difference, which crowners accepted on March 17, 2017, after much subsequent administration of the Federal Bank, are we talking about 13.6 billion in the current board and should be allowed out on a pair. I wanted to get into some conversation with the head of the board about this matter at the Hall, but it seems that no one is going to be seen here and have a conversation with us about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u344	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. When I listened, I heard why. At that moment, I recalled what I said in my speech earlier and read from the paper of journalist Hörður son of Ægisson, who wrote on March 3, 2017, I believe it was in the News newspaper. He explained that governments must stand on their feet. It would be a pressure to change the rules of play by the owner of these crowns, the hedge fund. He even testified. in a meeting that took place in New York City. It was March 2017. However, we regret having gone through reports and reports that the surrender, of course, began much earlier. It began in June 2016, for some reason, but it may have reached some kind of climax when people began to go to New York to negotiate with these parties. Maybe. What interests me, and I want to attract attention. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses that serves your country. 6 of the bill is a brief chapter entitled Council. It says that in the processing of the bill, there was consultation with the Ministry of Presidency and the Bank of Iceland. You would have somehow kept in view of the fact that there should have been some cautions coming from the Huns Bank right away when working on the bill, i.e. If there was no more work in the Federal Bank. Of course, I have no idea. Then we will see that the Commission's opinion refers to the review of the Federal Bank, which warns of the terrible consequences, will not be accepted by the bill. As a result, I wondered what happens in the meantime at the Federal Bank, since the bill was written and they had a consultation with the Ministry, evidently did not make any comments into the bill, or at least they did not wander into the bill. However, they brought someone, not a prophecy of doom, but a word of caution in their review of the matter. The question is, Is there anything that happens in the meantime that we do not realize and that it would be good to get an answer from the fact that the bill was submitted and recommended on July 22 until the committee gives this opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u345	Mr. President. In the evidence I've got, there's nothing that's going to change in the meantime. The bonding party referred to in the review is long gone and has been long before his day. So there was no new information in the meantime. I can't give you a serene answer to what happened from the bill's donation until the Fendaban showed that everything would be in force if the case wasn't taken care of last night, as we went over at the beginning of the discussion, as strange as it is now. What you suspect -- it's just human nature, sometimes plaguing men -- is that they've seen that this was pretty cool, and that's where they got the case through 1st. over seven minutes. One speech, not against the fact that the assembly was completely wrong that day. Now that I'm guessing that the conversation was actually this way, why don't we just get it together to convince enough members of the council that it's a good idea now to run through and finish? Then it's a problem, and we never have to think about it again. It doesn't matter if it's a little damaged, but it's going to be just a bunch of middle-class people. - And we are. I'm just pissed off about this whole thing. We have no place to go to give us the rights of the state to this extent. We had a plan here. The plan was well and well established, and the end of the plan made it possible for humans to join in, and those who did not participate got the bat. It is now being withdrawn all the way back by complete surrender.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u346	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Ólason For this talk, Bergethon was very fine and much in it that you could ask. As the senator doesn't understand, first of all, people try to throw this bill through the golden gate, like the female pelvis of their time when everything is in the army, let alone to think of bringing this bill up now and expecting it to be completed in two rounds in a single afternoon. I can't get that thinking. Hv. A senator has spoken both in his last speech and in the previous example of this practice, that Iceland's clients and/or opponents in foreign lands see that they can get away with anything against the Icelandic state in themselves. That is why I think that I might ask the highest level of questions. Secretary of finance both 2015 and last year about the influx of foreign venture capitals. It turns out that in the three years of 2015, 2016, and 2017, it finds its way here at a total of 300 billion dollars. We are now talking about releasing 83 of these supervillains or with the advantages we are about to face. Now I'm asking why. A senator whether he thinks it's a chance or the risk that the girl that has come here in three years, 300 billion, could in itself be taken out of here at any rate, as if a blanket were pulled away from us, whether or not he thinks that men are likely to be increased by this very detailed payment now that they get here, and think good of the fire to pull out, cut down, and without much response, these 300 billion that they've been throwing into the country in three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u347	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I have to admit, I haven't put myself well enough into this point about the influx of the past few years. Of course, real interest here at home is enormously high, it is totally out of context with everything we know in the countries we like to compare with. True, foreign investors seem uncomfortable, but I think they'll live with them, because they experience many people, I'm talking about those who aren't under the conditions, a little wrapped up in cotton under the heat lamp. Real interest levels are very high. The situation of the underlying government is very good for reasons we know, which are most of them because of the grand plan that was initiated in 2015 under the direction of the Government of Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson. These 300 billion, that was the number I caught, can probably be on fire, but I don't know how the paper investment is, and so on. At any rate, the actual growth rate we're offering here, which is, in fact, unbearable in companies and families, is designed to make foreign investors feel that at least I'm still doing it for enough money to be in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u348	Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm just gonna go on with this because I agree with him about the killing drugs placed on everyone here borrowing, our young people who don't move home, and others who have to finance, for example. House shopping and other things. I'll think about it. A senator has wondered about the effect that the efflux could have on interest levels in Iceland. If it now becomes a real efflux, this 84 billion, could it have some effect on the interest level in the country? Secondly, whether it is. A senator sees that the efflux of this money could affect the gang of the kroner. That would be very bad news now that there is a bargain in every area. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have wondered if he had these two factors regarding this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u349	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question and the answer. Of course, if 84 billion go out, there are 84 billion people who feel that way. There is now one of the things that can be highly criticized by the police in our presence today that there seems to be no analysis to have been asked, at least not to which point we members of the Senate are involved in the evidence. 84 billion in efflux. If we give ourselves the theory that it will go only within the day of its release, it can have nothing but a debilitating effect, whether it is temporary or long lasting. Of course, because of that fact, the crumbling of the crown affects prices and other items, so if it does, it enters the inflation, and the times are very twisted right now. Away from this, I think we must look at it, because it was asked about interest, that interest, the shifts go down. They're so tall. The level of real interest is so high that I think we must be sailing into a period of lower physical interest. There is a risk that if this triggers the inflation, there will be some action that will take place in connection with such events. The lack of analysis in the data on these issues is very serious, but it is clear that 84 billion are having an effect. It's hard to answer that from here on out of nowhere, but I think it's going to be on the gang right away, and I'm sure it'll be on interest resolutions soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u350	President. Because I'm here to give an answer, I have to make comments about that. In part, a member of the council should be adding extra cash for the movers of this case, so to some extent by talking about 13 billion harm. It must be normal to aim at the 190 kroner, which at its time was the lowest it would ever take for euros, perhaps being more than the lowest the bank would take by 190 k. The crown's gang was in exactly the same place as it is today, even weaker. On the other hand, in March 12, there was an unusually strong gang and euro in 107k. I calculate that the post-administration will be at least 23 billion people on the road, that in this 883/84 billion is easy to give 23 billion. It is the same giving as that of those who were first ready to accept government conditions. It is hardly natural for those who became incompetent and who were not available to play the game to gain a price better than those who were willing to do their part right away. I'd say the normal reference is 190 k. and hence, about 23 billion dollars. loss. It was interesting as hell. A senator mentioned that he hoped that the surrender would come. In that respect, in view of experience, you are concerned because the only thing humans have shown a great deal of harshness, some of them, is to defend the surrender against foreigners, to make up for the collections of foreign countries here not so many years ago. Of course, a person's fears are that he will defend his surrender now. The question, then, is: Why? [[The president calls.]] Why is it especially true that the majority of the left men care so much about the worldwide financial system? [[The president calls.]] This is not just the Icelandic phenomenon. What is happening with the international left man?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u351	Mr. President. Actually, I'll be asking for a ten-minute counterpoint, but it was a very interesting question at which point. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. What on earth is happening to this world's left men? [[Up front.]] If we look at a later story here at home, this begins at the time of the so - called Norwegian welfare government, which the Conspiracy and the Left Green were joined together. It seemed to be the best credit for our fiercest opponents. Of course, that's a terrible situation. Then I was in the position of being trying to run my business and in no political frame. But it was a disaster to watch from the distance that men like to get the applause from their opponents on the back. As soon as all the opposers pet you to the full and praise you, the person who has to say, " Wait a minute, am I on the right path? ' I still think it's going to breathe. Many of the players of that time are still in politics, and it might well be said that some of them are sorry for taking revenge. They were greatly taken from the current government opposition that was led from the point of view. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnuga, then president of the Annexe Party, and highest. The secretary of finance for the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party. Maybe something's going to go off because, you know, you might not want the result of the big plan, which was run off 2015, to be as great as it was going to be. Maybe it works, maybe it's something else. I'm going to have to come back to the answer to some of the deeper checks in that subject, but it's the first one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u352	President. Too bad I have to ask who. That's not all for a senator. I don't know if he'll be able to answer all that. Much has been discussed about the role of the Federal Bank, as it were, to demand that this case be accepted at the latest yesterday. It naturally states that if the case is agreed, we should accept it yesterday. In other words, because it wasn't approved yesterday, it wasn't even a meeting yesterday, can't you conclude that the Navy is saying, "If you didn't do it in time, don't agree to the bill, 'cause things don't go around at the market, as you would have liked to see?" Since you didn't accept the bill yesterday, you didn't have a conference, you didn't recommend the case, didn't approve yesterday, so don't agree to it, because if you make it out of this, things may get a little worse, as we did from the Scroll Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u353	Mr. President. I don't think there's any other conclusion to be drawn, but since yesterday did not exist, it would be wise to take a step back with this surrender. It would be only with their partner Marty Mcfly's help and his doctor something, what was his name again the Doctor of Back to the furte, why is it stolen from me? Without their partner's assistance, this will not be solved in accordance with the wishes of the Secret Bank. I think that in this context a ship sails and pays to lean back in the seat, take a breath with its nose, take the case into the committee, and take a closer look at it and put its fist on the table to the companies most difficult for us, the least of whom we would like to play with the plan necessary for the restoration of the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u354	V.E.G. President. So many things have come up during tonight's discussion that it's too bad not to have 20 minutes to make a move. Still, I would like to review a few things. First, I wondered that it is probably 5 o'clock in New York and that the Wall Street Hall has closed, but the lights here in the council Hall are still burning. I don't know if the dollar crashed, so after February 26, it seems to be some kind of life. It seems to me that we are now being taken away by the greatest stress. The stress of this matter is little more than that I could not understand the face of a day why it was the highest. Secretary of finance wasn't here in a house. Then I was told that he was attending a conservative conference or a conservative party somewhere out in the country. I understand the highest. Secretary of finance has to meet his conservative friends abroad, maybe he's comforting May May, what a man knows. But I don't understand, Mr. President, that neither he nor his chief substitute in this matter, see, the Chairman of what. The Economic and Business Committee, Óli Björn Kárason, should not be here and participate in this discussion, although only to tell the rest of us that we've been wrong about everything we're doing here. If they were to shrimp into us what we're talking about here, there'd be a lot of trouble. That'd be pretty good. In fact, I have to admit that almost everyone in this house seemed to have felt that the release of 84 billion on a fortune is something that should also be taken lightly. I saw in the side rooms earlier that the people had it in the flashing that me and the middle-class members were worrying about this matter and wanted to discuss it. Even government counsellors thought it was almost funny, and there was no need for us to be doing this. True, it was ministers of the house of sheep that was ready for it about 10 years ago that the Icelanders would slave for a long time and would not hesitate to have some matter that would hang over them and loose them, thus freeing them from natural causes. Perhaps that's why it's taken so lightly at the council side halls. But these people haven't been here in the Senate Hall. We haven't been caught. They have not taken the discussion with us. It hasn't driven us to a hole. We haven't been able to come here and tell us it's all a misunderstanding, that we don't have to be doing this. These people have not come here at all and convinced us that they are, because these people are not here. It is quite remarkable, as we have seen here several times, that men have intended to slip this case through, first of all, on one of the last days of the council before Christmas, and then were made backward. They do it again now for the reason that if it hadn't been accepted in fact yesterday, it's all tied up in the ass. But that is not why you can take note, which should scare people to do so. I say I'm afraid to accept this bill as it is, I'm no reason in this bill for the fact that there's such a great deal on it because as it has been presented in the speeches of some men, those who signed the committee opinion that follows the bill have not been here to answer why there's so much trouble, why it must be so soon that we had to agree with it. Today, this has been very successful since 2015. I can't help myself by staying very close the season between August 2016 and February 2017, where the Secret Bank first leaves a dollar for 190 bucks. The euro, probably July 2017, and then at 220 bucks. every week until November 5th. Nobody's taking the offer. Then they put everything on a fire sale and sell it in February/mars at 137 bucks. I think there would be a full reason for that, and not just for a reason, I think it's quite impossible but that this case is about to end this discussion, whenever that happens, because we have enough time, back to the economic and commercial committees between 2 and 3. so that you can properly go into the stitches of all this process. Put into the stitches why people trust in them to let 84 billion people go free without any pressure. There's no pressure. As I spoke in my speech earlier, there is no difference between whether someone is going south at Leifs Station and takes out 100 euros on his way to a foreign country, or whether someone else follows, drugd two bags, takes out 84 billion, and brings them out of the country. Same gang. Same amount. It doesn't matter. You ask yourself, " Why is this the way it is? ' Also because now the crown's gang has yielded. You wonder if this money will have to be available now because of a collective contract, whether it has to be released before it happens, because it may change the basis for something that it might do. It's also because the ballot of the government, which appeared a few days ago, is naturally so crazy that it will not be a solution to collective agreements, much less when those who negotiate, even for those who have least, are ready to give up the hedges after 23 billion dollars. ... inthiscontinent. They came here a few days ago, raising their tax ideas into the struggle, putting it at 18 billion, saying: "We don't have any more. - But men have 23 billion for the hedge fund. The government is not friends with the working man. She's a friend of the hedge fund. As I said before, Here is an invitation to a feast of hedges at the expense of the people of the land, and the director of the feast is the chief. Secretary of finance. I think that all of us and the members of the major body at Congress should agree to take this matter back into a committee and do it completely so that we can all agree on how it will be handled. As it is now, I cannot see that there is no peace in this matter. Actually, I don't know what would explain the indifference of other government groups at the council. I just can't get into it. Men showed up here at 2nd. The budget, diggers, for well - being, that cost a considerable amount of money and was to be picked up mostly by hunting costs, but there are 23 billion available here, who could have been used for the basics for which these same people were fighting. It does not move a muscle or a team. How convincing is this, Mr. President? How credible is this, Mr. President? How trustworthy are the people who claim to have the interests of the elderly, the poor, the lesser ones, at the same time ready to release 23 billion in this event alone for the hedges? As we have seen before today, this step here is another step in a long way in which the government has consistently succumbed to imaginary, real demands of hedges. And it seems that people are more concerned with being on the Christmas card list of some hedge fund in the world than with looking up their pants and thinking of an Icelandic and Icelandic people. Because 23 billion ain't no smartass. That is about the same amount of money that is estimated to be left over on the budget of 2019. [[The president calls.]] And the 84 billion people who are now going to release without any effort are up to 10% of the Icelandic government's budget. [[The president calls.]] And this is to be done in three hours. A scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u355	A respectable president. There's been a lot of discussions about this play at the National Bank, warning that this bill will not be approved later than yesterday. And like I asked why. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason ago: Do not conclude that it is no longer safe to accept the bill, says the National Bank. The late bank says that if this is not done last night, he has reason to be especially concerned about how this will come out. If not, if that is not the case, then you must wonder whether it was just some kind of a trick to try to force the case to go through without much discussion. It would be not for the first time that people try to get things through quickly by pointing out that they need to be done alone, two and three one night to ease the market. In fact, we were reminded that this is not even the first time that such a method is tested in this case. On December 14, the last day of the council last year, an effort was suddenly made to slip in the matter that had not been planned. And how did that prove to be short - lived on the President of the Generals? Yeah, we'd have to get this in there to row the market. So this trick has been tried once before. And now it's just the question: Is there anything in the Federal Association's assessment that if this bill is approved as if it has to happen yesterday, or was it some kind of a trick? We have to put it to the test at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee, meet with the bank manager of the National Bank, the bank manager, and ask him if this comment should be taken seriously. Obviously it wasn't agreed yesterday, there wasn't a conference yesterday, there wasn't a conference on Saturday, there wasn't a conference meeting on Friday last Friday, and, as a result, was, the Office Bank, getting too late to accept the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u356	V.E.G. President. It was a very good one. Senator. Now I'm not the kind of guy who's laying across the market every day, but I haven't quite realized if the market's been upset since December 14 till yesterday, I haven't quite noticed. But the market may have been calm only by methods other than providing this bill in its own time, December 14, since it was pulled back. Or maybe men have only fallen into Christmas, so they stayed calm until the New Year's Eve. That may be so. But as I say, I'm not lying on the market every day, and I haven't seen him feeling very upset about this matter. Of course, you should call the Secret Bank for a Economic and Business Committee and ask: "What has happened since yesterday when this is what is in English called the last time zone. It would be worth one Mass for itself and because I don't sit at night. I would have been up to, as the woman said in the north, to be a dead fly on the wall while the bank manager and spokesman explain it to the economic and business committees what is so urgent. Why do you have to accept this case yesterday? Why does it have to be taken care of yesterday? And if we didn't do this yesterday, will it be safe for us to take care of it today or tomorrow or the other day? Is the market upset? We need to find out. Has he been upset today? Now you have to look up to be sure. But as far as I can see, this is another way to try to rock the boat and make a man nervous about nothing. [[The president calls.]] But it may also be just because the people who produce this bill, we live in a state of discouragement, perhaps thinking that we're all like that. [[The president calls.]] We don't have that kind of group. We've got plenty of courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u357	A respectable president. There we go. A senator only asked me a question - and - answer question. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason only to this point. What is the cause, especially of the left categories, or of restoration? Of course, the restoration loves the euro and is very impressed with it, except when it comes to the euro in the Deposit Bank. Then let them, as it seems, go for nothing to the treasures of the hedges in exchange for the crowns of the land. But the left groups, how is it that the left groups who regularly insist that they fight for the good of the public, leave this matter in a light bed? And why this permissiveness of the left class of the same time with the international financial system? I've never really gotten this to work, but it's still a very prominent trend here on land and beyond. At what? A senator or some explanation for this for me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u358	V.E.G. President. I may not have a complete answer to this, but I recall that the people worked so hard to get into the favor of the hedge fund here only in the past in the century that there was to make one of them governor of Greece for well-worked jobs. Maybe it's just because people want glory from these Cries, that they want a round of applause from the hedge fund and the money in the world that wants to dress in Iceland. I don't know how to do it. But it may be an opportunity later, in the following talks, to go through only the fact that no one in the world would benefit from putting any interests outside the world over the interests of his own country. You may want to bear in mind that this issue has led to a weakening of society. [[The president calls.]] It is designed to weaken a currency, to weaken a standard of living, so that a person might think a little more about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u359	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. First, I'd like to say, nothing's going to happen today, nothing happened yesterday and nothing's gonna happen tomorrow because of today's deadline. As long as men don't do some damn fool in this case and don't panic, we'll keep this fine-looking contortion, excuse the sleigh, from now on. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Sæmundsson and all of us here should not be concerned that the markets in particular rock tomorrow because of this case. This point involved some way to escape all discussion, suggesting that there is a weak basis for accepting the grammatical occasion, the perplexing arguments. I want to know, because there was a why. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's village of the July 4th period: Did he experience many attempts to shoot through without much discussion? Is this a common practice at the High Council? And is this the first time since the election at the end of 2017 that he sees this kind of exercise?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u360	President wants less of it. A member of the United States of England is the matter of Congress, and the president doesn't know what an ununder contraband means.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u361	V.E.G. President. I'll try to speak English in this speech. Now, people my age may not remember so clearly what has happened just before, but I do not quickly remember trying to throw some of these pine boom boomers through the council during those years, 2013-2016. It was then that these following cases were being discussed, and the big picture was being discussed and how to solve the then huge case. They had ample opportunity to discuss it here at the Assembly Hall. And I say again, as I said in my speech earlier, if it's so that this group of people in the Hall of Congress, because there's nothing here but middle-class people, if we're so completely wrong with us, why don't the representatives of the other classes come and tell us in so many words that we're wrong, that we're mistaken, that we don't know exactly what we're talking about? Why don't these people come to tell us? We are quite ready to take that fight, then the discussion. I say again to what. A senator: I do not recall quickly trying to get something like this into the pelvis of the woman and then throwing in the golden gate. I remember one thing, actually, only earlier in the fall that came naturally also from the government, which was something uncomfortable, but now I can't quite remember the look of what it was, but it was prevented from doing the same at the time. We are naturally the kin at the council to protect the nation's interests. We're working for the nation. We are not here for ourselves, so when we see a mistake in the process, we are under obligation to point it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u362	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Now we are fighting in the hall, the middle-class people sitting here, to the point that the reason why other members of the council do not participate in the discussion is not to delay it. Of course, it is a great bullshit to say such things when a combined of two members of the administrations, the highest. On the other hand, the minister of finance on the other hand and the head of the committee's opinion have held the talk and others at ease. In turn, members say that they do not want to participate in this discussion to delay it. Personally, I think it would shorten the discussion if members of other classes were to participate in the discussion and especially if members of the board were so little at heart to participate in it. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson whether he shares in my opinion that it would be possible to shorten the discussion if members of other classes were involved and we might get some sort of bottom line and answer to these questions that we have raised tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u363	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. A senator may be able to shorten this discussion if we do, now I'm just taking it for granted. A deputy councilman, Einar Kárason, said earlier, so reasonably to know why this is so on, if we were reasonably to know why this rush is, why we need to finish this case yesterday, on the grounds of this delivery at the price of the euro is in this business. If someone could explain it to the people here, perhaps he would not have to express himself excessively thereafter if the evidence would be proved trustworthy and would fail to be accepted. But I say again, and I hope to what. A senator agree with me, that, as the case is prepared, it needs to be taken back to the Economic and Business Committee, received the Sentencing Bank and others to a meeting, and found out why it needs to be approved yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u364	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a good speech. It's amazing to think about all this, what's happened here since Christmas. Maybe they all went on Christmas break, like what? A senator said. Maybe it was just one big barbabre. Maybe there's just no hurry. This time pressure may not have been pressured. Yesterday's day has passed, and in fact, it has been remembered. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's collection of contracts could have an effect. There's certainly some kind of pump that can be good for you. There are considerable financial resources, let us never forget that, and they could certainly benefit from a serious matter. What I wonder here: What keeps him? A senator that happens if we don't agree to the bill? What opportunity could there be if someone did? So, what situation do we face?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u365	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. I can't deny that the ass and pressure to finish this case now and tips and the threats to alleged agitation in the market if we don't agree, this would remind me of an uncomfortable phrase that was used earlier in this century because of a different case where it was threatened that Iceland would be a Cuba of the north if certain agreements were not met. There a professor of economics claimed that there would be economic nuclear winters. Well, fortunately, economics are not science, and I'm sure there's not been another single flower time in Iceland since we started straightening out our cows after a collapse, a continuous stability force, but it's not because of nothing. It's because they made good decisions and were afraid to stand up. However, it is as if that quality had occurred from the men who had the courage to cooperate with their forces in 2013 and 2016. It's as if they've only gotten to their knees now as men have done here before in the century, as I've stated before. And what if we don't agree to this bill? I don't think it's gonna be here, either economic or otherwise. And I don't think Iceland will be a Cuba of the North if we don't agree to this bill. And I don't think the markets are going to be incredibly agitated. And I think it's just underneath us, i.e. Governments, come to put hedge funds in perspective once and for all maybe, or once, that men can't walk around as I've said before, like going into a business and taking care of themselves and paying for mine. It's just not like that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u366	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. True, it has been so that everything has been done to set this issue straight and fast. It is quite remarkable that such demands should be made so large that you can basically claim that it is a government surrender against these hedge funds. This is a remarkable situation because we have groups waiting for correction, and I specifically mention those groups living at a dollar against a dollar's impairment. I want to see if it's okay. A senator would not agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u367	V.E.G. President. I totally agree with what. Senator on this. I have said so in speech and in writing that the government does not have 1.1 billion to improve the quality of disability, but it has 23 billion to give up hedge funds. The government does not have 2 to 3 billion to reverse the loss of a cent, but it has 23 billion to bring up the hedge fund. This government is not the government of the working class. She's not the government of the public in Iceland. She's the government of the hedge fund. And as I said before, a table has been covered for the hedge fund and for the director of the feast, the financial minister himself, who is now at a conservative party in foreign lands, sitting at my table, breaking the bread and doses on plates. It is this task that this government has chosen, to put the interests of hedge funds ahead of the public interests of the United States. That's very sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u368	Mr. President. I believe that document, entitled Losun capital crisis and is presented as Iceland's Management Board and Iceland's Secret Bank on emissions of capital stocks by stabilisation and the stress of tax stability on broken farms and national media tenders to ensure the balance and economic needs of the population, is of particular interest in this subject. This document is dated 2015 and is published by the Ministry of Economics and Economics. Mr. President. There is a red thread passing through this document when it comes to the problem here on a discussion, which is what these so - called deltas are. Africans are the property of foreign people, usually and most as enlightened funds and such persons, which were considered necessary to lock up in the country with the so - called capital capital capital capital heads adopted by an economic programme in cooperation with the World Cash Fund after the 2008 financial breakdown. When it comes to this aspect of the problem, the red thread is that its solution is a so - called auction - out route. The owners of these assets could be given the option to remove these assets and move from the country in the power of an auction that was more clearly defined. Here, very significant sums of money were tied in this way, and it has been attributed here to the fact that they received as much as 15% greater than the amount of land production, but in the stream of time, they have been drawn together. There are currently 3% of the annual productions in our nation's population and they are evaluated, as shown here and shown in a special table in the report by this bill, an equivalent to 84 billion dollars. The auction route is very closely discussed in this government document and the Federal Bank. It's to make a point about this so-called African problem - I'm saying that I've never taken it off with that word, country, let alone an African, but let it be a good name - which I defined earlier and that it is announced that it will be settled with the auction in debt and with the duties of duty. It discusses a financial auction in which the demands of the crew pay additional fees in the form of a higher order for going out of currency capitals. It is suggested that there was a man who was introduced as one of the world's most advanced authority on the design of sources, he gave advice to governments, and even said that his counseling is his own wish for the government to pay no price. In this regard, Professor of Oxford University, Dr. Paul Klemperer, explained that he has advised the government in the design and implementation of the auction in cooperation with a more specific economic research firm. It is reported that in recent years this recognized expert has designed and directed auction operations for the U.S. Bank of England and the United States's Penitentiary, with remarkable results. Then we read: "The auction will be a multispecies invitation, i.e. The more specific species of auction and the fact that Iceland's Sidlabanki will take care of the project. Mr. President. Economics have an interesting and high level of information that attracts auctiones. They are a very important part of prices and prices, and they discuss auctions as a means of calling out prices for goods and services. There are many sources of auctions, and this is discussed in this study, and there is a man who has taken those studies to his senses. It also says that endliness, as it is said, is assured in advance, guarantees that all deportations will be restored. The argument comes one after another and makes it clear that this is the right way, it has been called to an expert who has advised such authorities as the Bank of England and the Federal Bank of the United States, and it is clear to readers that the deliberators who use the auction to offer money in exchange for Icelandic crowns will pay for that extreme stress. They also say that they will have the necessary cost of getting out of currency and that the auction system ensures that investments will put pressure on premiums from currency capitals. Moreover, the solution to the problem, all free ends with failure, and the results will be a balance between national interests and government action against deportations. Now we are confronted with the big question, Mr. President: Why have governments fallen away from this route? Why is this marketd course so accurately traced and developed and reasoned when this major effort was launched in 2015 in cooperation with the Government and the Federal Bank? This has been attributed to the auction that has been observed in the Federal Bank auctions, it is a government fund becoming of very substantial sums of even over $3 billion. It would be possible to build some nursing homes for the elderly and see for themselves a country in the grandest case if such sums were available. I agree with what. Council members who have expressed their views within the conventions that naturally present this matter, as well as since then. Subjects of the government opposition who take little or no part in this discussion except what I understand with one exception. Mr. President. It is absolutely necessary to explain to the Council why the government has actually disappeared from this policy as it was established in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u369	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. He did well over things and raised this piece at the beginning of his talk, which was published in 2015, about the release of capital abduction. Then, when winds blew from the second direction about the spring of 2016, the then prime minister, w. Senator this afternoon, Sigmundur Davíð Oddsson, from the seat of Prime Minister... Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - He might have a brother. [[Up front.]] He went back to his men, saying that this journey would be continued, which was not done because, as they have said, immediately during the summer, an U-bed was taken, as they have said. I'd like to ask the senator, because we are now in the power of a government that we have often called the Government of the broad appeals, where the resistance isn't much and the people hold tight in their chairs: Is it possible that the funds could be more successful in convincing the governments that we're people today to do what is right for them than was at that time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u370	Mr. President. You're hoping you'll ask. It is natural to remember that in the time of the Norwegian welfare government, which so called itself so beautifully and memorable, a person giddy on his knees at the Council of Control. It seemed like all you need was for a man to come in a suit and speak foreign. Then the defenses were broken when it came to national interests. They had no intention of accepting illegal requirements that were not legal. There was no need for people in the country and in the media. This was not spoken of as an illegal requirement of all people. It was the Icesave debt. The State Radio did not withdraw, and the two great political groups who organized the government are now on opposite sides of the government border. One in the position of leadership here, the short term leading party of government opposition, but no longer. We saw how they resisted the pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u371	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. It may not be fair for me to ask him about this, but I thought of it just as he waved a plate of money disposal in 2015. Also, I was thinking -- now I've been walking out here for a cup of coffee and meeting people of other categories and an unnamed floored man because I'm just wondering why we're standing in this storm. This would have been fixed in another place, we'd have to swallow it. That's exactly what we don't want to swallow. I don't like to hear it say in my ears because you're elected by the people of the country to handle things like this. If so, I would like to ask the senator: " Are we not completely in agreement that we are elected for the people of the country and are to make decisions in their behalf?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u372	Mr. President. We are here representing the Icelandic people and our duties are to an Icelandic people, not some suit spoken in foreign lands. We must, in the face of such a big issue, take whatever protection we can give to the people we can make. That's what we've been trying to do today and tonight. I agree with what. Councilmen here have said that it would have been most desirable if members, to make up from the management team and, like, from the government stand, had made their stand on this matter, as big as it is, as important as it is, and so much financial interests as there are, and, in fact, economic interests. I remind you that there is no absolute assessment of the potential effects on the crew of the cent due to these actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u373	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Here earlier tonight, it was a bad idea. A senator will do so in the bill itself, in an explanation by it on page. In view of the impact on the Sentred Bank and Pension Bank, the effects on the crew of the kroner are not deemed to be a major concern. The bill and comments show that it was a consultation with the Secret Bank and the Ministry of Presidency. However, there is no warning message from the Secret Bank on the bill or the follow-up, and now you wonder if it hasn't come or if it's just not discussed, let's not rule it out. However, there are warnings in the committee's opinion from some reference to the Federal Bank. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ Otherwise, the extent of the commercial property will increase by nearly 70% or by about 25 billion dollars. There's a higher risk, there's something dangerous about this. This 25 billion jars, which, according to this, can turn everything upside down, are not so different from what we've been talking about here and are simply yielding to these owners of the land. Because it is suitable for the Commission to provide a similar amount of money with a price that seems to be to be on these credits, it seems that some sort of high risk, is increasing by 70% or 25 billion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator only into this and ask him to review it, as well as whether it's not really a basis for evaluating the impact of a currency market and walking and other evidence that there is some ambiguous information to be returned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u374	Mr. President. That is a long list of questions that would be needed to direct to the Federal Bank. Why is it not explained by the bank why he feels it is advisable to do so, if it is his attitude to abandon his share with the government in his day? The late bank had developed a great sense of expertise in this subject, performing a currency auction, and especially of the kind that is presented in this record 2015 that I thoroughly covered. Why is this postmortem to be the result of disappearing from the auction route? Why is that not logical, and why is there reason to yield to the considerable amount of money that has been attributed here to running at least tens of billions of dollars? Why is the impact of the kroner's gangs and the effect on the Deposit Penitentiary? Are not these men in economic work? Are they not in the process of creating plans with numbers and boundaries and stages? Why is it not clear at least Why is this day yesterday an important day in this matter? Why, then, is it safe for that day to set up this matter by means of a three - hour discussion today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u375	V.E.G. President. This, of course, is a key question that you would do well to answer at some point from the Federal Bank, why this program has been launched. It may have been a long time before if you go over history. It is clear that it was a long time ago that we began a meeting with these owners, creating some kind of agreement that will bring us to the place we are now with the fact that we are getting far less for this than we might get. In fact, the Senator answered another question that I was going to ask him, "Is it not so well - known in his seeds? " A senator is specially educated in economics and such, drawing up and putting on stage photos and trying to identify the risks, the least potential risks and the most potential risks, etc. Of course, you miss it because there are considerable amounts of money underneath it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u376	Mr. President. Of course, that's right. One senator noted that the survival has long since begun. We heard a very thorough passage by the ocean. paritaprevir Shimble Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, in a few discourses here today, traced it in specific details how this situation was immediately under way, how the race was run away, the previous announcements of the arrangements and implementations, etc. It's not a new thing for itself. What is new about it is that it is completely cleared from the auction method as a method. Let me mention that it is surprising that the representatives of the Icelandic government have made a trip to New York, U.S.A., to discuss with some stakeholders there. You would have thought it was those who were applying for some money or payment from the Icelandic government, they would come and discuss these matters at the home of the Icelandic government rather than on their home level in New York City.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u377	A respectable president. In my opinion, it was a brilliant speech. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isleuskom, pointed and clear. When resisting illegal demands came up, I felt that a moment was like seeing a shock to my speaker Winston Churchill. Hv. paritaprevir However, Ólafur Ísleifsson speaks more clearly than Churchill and speaks Icelandic, culminating the language Icelandic, as a dignified president regularly reminds us. So I have no specific comments to this talk as such, but I still want to ask her why. A senator who has long cared for the affairs of older citizens and has fought hard for their better terms and interests in general: How so, in view. A senator, that governments do not even have to calculate the amount below? They won't have time to come here to discuss the matter. Seems to be of little value to yield, perhaps 23 billion, just in the last round, to have shown repeatedly in this process since the spring months or the summer of 2016. How's that? Hence, a member of the body at the same time allows the same people to take such small amounts in such a light bed, but it is not possible on the part of the same people to put money aside, e.g. A dollar in return, which seems to be relatively trivial in this comparison and the amount well spent and would no doubt return.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u378	Mr. President. Clearly, we were. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is deeply moved by the sharpness he mentioned here. I'd be happy to have a record on a vinyl with the world's leading speeches. No one will be equal to him, but it is a natural source of inspiration and encouragement that involves listening to him. I want to be the subject of these older citizens' issues as a matter of course. A senator mentioned. There is no way to give up the amount of money that will run at tens of billions, as has been discussed in the discussion. Let's take a case I've been thinking about here like anyone else, which is the so-called holiday goal, i.e. to avoid having to put up with the poor just to try to improve their interests with increased employment. This is entitled in the technical sense of a vacation market, and I have been in this program repeatedly to explain it, including the following: The maximum value for the premium. The secretary of finance, the fact that there has been an unconcerned calculation, is that when you take up all the tax effects of such an operation, this operation doesn't cost anything. That's not good enough. They stick to it, as it is in this town, to let go of all the calculations due to taxes that would bring new ones into the state fund, because of increased resources, because of the increase in income. This issue points out that if older citizens are involved, each dollar is counted, and calculations are questioned, approved and disintegrated. It's not like it's fun to watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u379	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator in this regard, how strange this is. I'd add that to an explanation. A senator said that it was such a positive influence that a certain number is harder to establish. I met a fine older man from Tattoo just last day, who told me that he didn't want to stop working. He really wouldn't get anything out of that money, but he'd just be so much happier and feel better while working. He felt that giving people more opportunities to do this would save, for example. In the health system, substantial amounts, and they are quick to collect the amounts in the health system. On the one hand, we have a righteous case that all recommend an attack. The government does not listen to it. Then they try to slip through the council for the New York hedge fund of up to tens of millions of dollars. You can't make it work, how the same people can come out in so different ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u380	Madam President. It may be added that the elderly's labour fund should be used by government to bring up nursing homes for the elderly. Since collapse, some of the provisions for this fund have been taken into account, not by new buildings and maintenance of existing ones. There's very little money there, after this treatment of the fund, to get the affairs of a nursing home to the proper degree. I would like to use the last few seconds to draw attention to this tremendous speed of speech in this matter. They expect it to be over here at a time of day. This reminds us of the speed of speech regarding the protection issue of last year, which was rapidly delivered. You ask yourself, " Is this an omen of the one to come when the third energy package comes here for the council? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u381	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the treatment of Croncies that depend on the specific limitations, i.e. Drops of land. The subject of the bill is that the owners of the land may be allowed to take their money out of bills that were previously dependent on the specific restrictions as well as to purchase for these dollars of foreign currency. Here it is, as the bill says, one of the last steps was taken to eliminate the capital capital master who protected Iceland and the Icelandic economy while it was rising in the years after a crash. Some may be able to ask, " Why now? ' As mentioned by the former speakers, it is completely unclear why this time is chosen to be generous in the way of meeting these individuals. And if I mention this, why this time has been chosen, I'd like to use this opportunity to ask why it is falling from the original government goal, see the goal that the owners of these settlements would be made to pay a certain additional fee in our joint fund of Iceland, and in any way improve the damage that the nation suffered in the collapse. It was also intended that the owners of these hedge funded their possessions out at an adverse level. These targets have been clearly thrown at ease. Madam President. This bill shows the government's will for us to pay for these owners - yes, owners, and who are they? Does anyone know? No, Madam President, they have no face, unknown, and probable international wealth demons. These are men who do nothing in their grand successes. What's more, these are the hedges of the last group we're releasing from the Icelandic economy and it's producing very much. These are the ones who have not left behind and have held the longest of all in the redness, the most fiercest of the problems Iceland had to face after a crash. Why did the government fail, Madam President? Why? Is it because we have a lot of money? What does that say about action, or rather, inactivity, to stop the plight of those who have been left between their hands and to survive 240,000 dollars? a month? They could not be met by increasing a person's discount only in an ignominious way, but they may remember one pizza a month and perhaps even a week. With a loaf of bread. Speaking of the elderly, we've seen it. According to the decade, contributions to be given correctly to build a nursing home for the elderly in this country have been provided in all things other than the laws on the elderly's budget. An example of this is a provision that has been extended year after year for over a decade, providing 11 billion from this fund. What are we talking about here? 84 billion. And how much of that is leftover? Do we get information about how much it is? If there were 1 0 percent, it would have been half what's been taken out of the elderly's enterprise fund. Ten years, but that kind of money doesn't remember paying the vulture funds out, billions of dollars on top of it. A gift is a good description of this. Of course, this is all a surrender. And what is the message for the future, and especially for future hedges? The message is simply that Iceland is an easy prey. Here, however, it is practical to come in, grab valuables in bad times, in difficult times, grab them at the expense of the disaster, and then release them with the greatest possible gain. The treasures of money receive their increase with the highest yield. This structure we are confronted with is a complete reversal of these funds, a reversal of the original objective of letting the hedge fund pay a higher price for the currency, a kind of contribution to Icelandic society. Madam President. These goals have been thrown to a calm end. With this surrender, we are prized the cruelest hedge fund. This is an organized retreat. A matter of this magnitude should at all be brought to the attention of the council. Of course, the government should be all here in the pit to ask the questions, the normal questions, that presented this bill. And they should be here and answer. But what is the case? I am delighted to announce that here in the hall is one of us. A senator who is not a member of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u382	Not yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u383	No, no, no. For eight hours this matter has been discussed, the hall has been empty of the members of all the seven social groups in this country. This is about Iceland's interests. Why should we not take advantage of Icelandic interests? Billions, even tens of billions, are under here. Because sometimes I go to my favorite team, IBV, who never gives an inch, it may not be a way to describe it as sports are sometimes described. Let's just imagine that we're playing football or sports games the way it is, the story in this case. Ten years is a bit like that. Home team's been doing very well under the direction of Coach Sigmundur. Our team is at halftime against the flock of vultures, a foreign force, ordered foreign rough tools, truly harsh and do not yield. They have a reputation for violating an adversary when the judge looks away, but our coach has seen all their tricks, and the local people give nothing, not an inch. We'll have some popcorn and soda at halftime, or maybe a hot dog. The second half has been replaced by a coach to our team and will be called for to enter the field. Where are our men? ask the audience. They're in the dressing room. They've given up and they're in the dressing room shaking on their bones. They don't want to go into the field, they give the game. The hypocrites feed the cup and triumph. This is the way it is if we present it as a sports contest. Many questions remain unsettled in this matter. In view of original plans, what is the issue of surrender? Why now? Why is this so urgent now? Why this turn towards the hedge fund, this retreat? Why? Why is there no greater need for Icelandic interests? And why are the politicians of others not interested in this issue today? We're gonna have a serious case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u384	A respectable president. It was a powerful speech, and it put things in perspective. In fact, members of Congress, especially those who are not in the hall, should view it as an encouragement. A senator was encouraging the crowd, telling them to come out of the dressing room, which is the driving force. A senator did not know how to give up, either in sports or elsewhere. A man with his black belt in karate and his black belt in the politics too, as we heard before. But because of him. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason amounted things, the amount of money being given - though, of course, it's a big mistake because governments haven't shown how much is being sacrificed, we just know that it's worth tens of billions - in the context of what governments aren't prepared to put money in, the personal discount, like the status of older citizens, you can't help but wonder what the power is. What makes it so easy to give up in that race, so to speak, to give up for the wealthiest or the most presumptuous scales in the world, but it is not so ready to help or accept so much as one form of money that meets the least members of society, although making adjustments, at least. which we've worked hard. A senator, is it merely a violation of what one would like to cast away here without a doubt? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u385	The president reminds us that this joint is called a response rather than a response.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u386	Madam President. I can't understand this President's comment. This is the first answer I give under her control. Thank you. A senator for the questions. He likes it to a game like me. In my first speech, I said it was as if the team gave up, was in the locker room, didn't run out, wouldn't go out on the field and give the game, and the opponent, of course, took the victory and the prize. It's something like that. It's right next door. Senator. He asked why it was so easy to give up. The most common reason for giving up in sports, if I inform you so. A senator about her is a great respect for the opponent. If you show up and fear your opponent and have great respect for him, playing is usually of little value because you usually lose a game like that. Perhaps that's exactly the way it is in this case, as many have. Senators have arrived in the public assembly tonight, showing some kind of fearful respect for these suit-dressed foreign men, who are likely in charge of the hedge fund. Of course, it is absolutely forbidden in sports to get down before the game begins. If we continue with the illustration of sports, one of the first things a good trainer makes his point of encouraging his team and pulling it up, if I may use it, to the opponent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u387	Madam President. I hope the President gives me room to demand an answer. Senator. I found answers to most of the questions I asked about last year, yet I could say. A senator likes to follow through on the previous answer by trying to explain to me why the game should be relatively easy and easy to score, as for example. in the case of meeting senior citizens when the ball is in front of an open target. What causes such advancement? Why is it so difficult for the government to meet those who may be most in need of assistance? Even when the goal is totally open and no problem is scored far above. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u388	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir So did Davíð, Gunnlaugsson for the question. Why they burn off, I think the question was. It's natural nervousness, that's a short answer. They don't believe in themselves. Let us say that this is the best answer, but behind it, there are, of course, a number of spiritual structures that need to occur that have failed in the training process. There are some who are hesitant about the game, and they are not hardened for the purpose and purpose of the game, i.e. The goals they are seeking to reach are aghast. Of course, people play a game to win, to reach goals they set for themselves before they show up. In this case, they were killed. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u389	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress who is used to - I hope this falls now within the framework of the President - to argue and to argue with matters, whether he believes that a body of Congress, a council of the Central Party, is the only congregation interested in this matter, has been informed with sufficient evidence as to what is really involved. Has the logic of those who have wanted the matter to be true in this case and who have agreed to accept made it clear enough? There have been two talks held on behalf of the management board, or two talks, probably 7 and 15◯20 minutes, something like that, one answer from one other government body member. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason to support the approval of this case? Do the explanations given in the Committee's Committee Department help to explain why this is so important in accepting the matter? Is there a basis for this, in view of the failure of the answers, to settle matters more fully? In fact, there has been a request that there be a meeting between discussions on the Economic and Business Committee. Is there not every reason for us to have logical support for this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u390	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. He's talking about whether there's enough evidence in this matter. There is a committee's opinion and evidence on this subject, and this needs to be considered. However, in discussions, questions are addressed and answered and there are opportunities to ask questions that they can answer. In this case it is not so, for during the last seven or eight hours, there has not been a single member of the management team, practically, but not without exception, being here in the Senate or listening to this discussion in the neighborhood to make a possible objection or give a talk, even if it would be to explain some of the points mentioned above, such as: what I mentioned in my speech, why this is happening now. Why is there such a hurry? Why was this so urgent that it was supposed to happen yesterday? Now that day has passed, and I can't see that anything has happened, but it had to happen then, it had to happen yesterday. Then I ask, why now? Why that pension? How high is this pension? Has it been calculated? Why is the initial objective lost when this project was planned for the release of the ocean, and what might be the possible result? What do we talk about in financial terms? It's like they've given up and they're going to finish it. They're not even talking about it anymore. Let's get rid of this. Let's give it up. Tomorrow, this case is over and behind us. I don't think it's an acceptable attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u391	President. The Committee's opinion of the changes that exist is a page. The number is 84 billion. I can't see that there's any evidence in the Committee's opinion why we need to accept this now. It refers to the review of Iceland's Central Bank, which doesn't even give sound reasons why it needs to be approved. It is said that there is an increasing danger, but it is not logical how this danger is increased by the second - century governing body. What exactly does he have in his mind? Has this party been contacted? That's why I say and wonder why. A senator said that there is a lack of evidence that this matter needs to go through in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u392	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. The original goal was that African lovers would pay special stress at the point when they would be released from these seas, when the Icelandic State would let them out of their seas, they would make a contribution to Icelandic society. And with the bill, it is being indulged, yielding the objective of this contribution so that these capital owners will be involved in rebuilding Icelandic society. That was the original idea, and they also paid a higher price for the currency they were allowed to get out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u393	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this speech he gave earlier. He found out about Icelandic interests that I can fully agree with. I wonder what. A senator has thought these matters the same way that I did, i.e. how is it that political powers that identify themselves in the struggle for the common population of this country can think of putting the interests of hedge funds ahead of the interests of the Icelanders? I'm asking why. A senator has developed an opinion as to who could be the explanation for this, i.e. That the labourer is worthy of the reward, to be testified in a holy book, and that there is nothing beyond the days of battle. When the neck hits, these same categories take sides with the hedge fund, with international financial contributions, with what was once called the 1st May capital. So these groups take sides with this group against the people of the country, with the bill we deal with here, which is about to undermine the potential of Icelanders to use what they really have. The questions mentioned earlier were that these same people, these same political powers, were ready to sacrifice in this case more than 20 billion, but they do not have a few billion people to fix the major problems of society for those that are hardly and least.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u394	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for these questions. In effect, his question was, "Why do certain political powers put the interests of the hedge fund ahead of the interests of Icelandic society or Icelandic public, do I have any idea? ' Of course I don't have the answers. I think that there is a lack of the quality of society to hold fast to, and maybe there is also a lack of that quality in the political class. That may be. Men are generally obedient. When men take sides with those who have power behind the money, then the qualities that I was describing are elegance and adherence, I may not be inclined to analyze them much further. Of course, we are here at the General Assembly, elected agents, to benefit the nation. When there are such big interests at stake, as in this case, 84 billion people, we have to stop. Therefore, I am surprised that the generals will not participate in this discussion, even if only because of the great interest involved, and ask questions, but it does not even seem to be interested in asking questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u395	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I can't help but consider what he said earlier on the subject of smoothness and follow-up, even physical. It doesn't matter where they stand, i.e. Outside the middle party, people have not trusted for some reason to participate in this discussion here today and tonight. So I ask the senator again: Does he feel that there may have been some agreement between the political parties in the matter that this matter would flow slowly through the council in three hours, and men should not rock the boat or exaggerate the water so as to have good weather between them at the council? Well, that could be why. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u396	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this thought question, whether there is a agreement between the groups that this flows slowly and quietly through the council. Of course, I don't know anything about it, and even though I've been in at least Today, I am not so perceptive or perceptive as to what is taking place between other political parties. But it seems as if they were planning to pass this through without any resistance or resistance or questions, which I find strange. Asking questions does not even require research. A famous question was the child who pointed to the emperor and was the only one who dared to point him out as he was fully naked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u397	Madam President. I'm going to thank you for the guidance we got at the President's chair earlier on what's an answer and what's not, even if I don't quite appreciate it. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether she intends to write a presentation tonight and/or a reply or a counterargument, whether she feels that it is one of her duties to conduct such an operation, one of the talks. I want to know this because we need to know something here on this discussion. We're having a more objective discussion. We're asking each other questions because we don't fully understand the behavior of everyone here in this house. We do not fully understand where they are going with the existing bill. We do not fully understand why it is necessary to go through the council at such a speed. Therefore, to increase our understanding, we ask one another, I'd like to know if the president intends to continue the practice of censoring or censoring the above talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u398	Madam President. In any case, the president who now sits in the President's chair has done quite well in directing meetings. However, I am concerned about the comment the president made earlier. It may have been done in a light joke, but it may seem a little strange if these are the highlights of the president when men could walk around and be wearing a platform shoeless, hat on their heads, jeans on, and tieless with flaps down to the chest and act like donkeys, and president doesn't comment on it. I would like to point out to all the presidents of the General Assembly that they are the president of all members of the Parliament, and that is why it would be fine if presidents were to consider more carefully how men appear in the General Hall rather than trying to censor what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u399	Madam President. A respectful president makes comments and says that he does not feel that there is enough disagreement in the discussion. Therefore, I would like to encourage the president to try it in part that there are people here who can explain to us, possibly, perhaps not, why we are wrong about the matter. As a matter of fact, I think people are going to be successful, and that's why neither the two government opposition nor the board will show up and will not participate in the discussion. I encourage a respectable president to try to get some of the people who trust in him to be spokesmen of this bill and hopefully create more conflict, more reasoning, and we get closer to understanding what people are going to do with making a contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u400	A respectable president. I'm just gonna have to carry some volleyball off my back. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, who is standing here and has listened to us for a while, even while he said he was moving a party, which was probably a joke. [[Up front.]] However, I wondered, " Is the Chairman of the Committee, who has not been seen here for hours, gone home or is taking a nap somewhere, since it does not seem to be a big interest in these discussions that have been conducted here? ' Madam President. It has been noted that we miss the answers to many of the questions presented here. We have also missed any members of the council who intend to accept this matter or bring it up here, refuting the conclusions we have drawn from the case and having discussions about this big matter, because this is a big deal. In fact, it is indistinguishable that two members of the board have been talking about this since they entered the council. One, the highest. Economic and financial ministers who delivered the issue on January 22th and then the head of the Economic and Business Committee. You wonder if it is a lack of interest. Is it so that these fine executives sit at home looking at the new sera of the Bachelor Show or the pepper bear, or what is it now called rather than being here or what is it that makes people not in the council room or in this discussion? It's a great deal of interest, financial interest, for Iceland's case which, not just for the first time now, but for the second time, is trying to take over the council under the pretext that there's something on, the market's upset, and I don't know what or what. On December 14, this had to happen to ease the market. One of the questions that have been asked is how the market went down since then, whether it's a bit nervous or what the situation is. Yesterday we were supposed to finish this by the Sullaby Bank's request and, of course, I'm sure there's no online news that something terrible has happened. It's been handled well here in speeches or because it has rightly been said how the retreat in this matter has actually taken place. How they have always added, changed decisions, changed terms, gone to negotiate with demandsors, or owners of those assets instead of calmness, letting them come, calm down, as the policy was to determine how to rid the capital head. There, the direction was based on letters, reasoned in such a way that it was taken, and of course the results have attracted tremendous attention. As mentioned in my talk earlier this evening or today, the question of how Iceland had done this, how people did it, actually ignored everything the money owners wanted, and even what certain international organizations tried in their time, may even cause us to do. In the past, we had shown this by the relief laws of the day. Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde had the prerogative to come through the council and green, I don't think that he could have supported it at that time, actually did not vote against it. So when the Icesave treaties and all went on and the people fought a great defense for the nation in what, of course, had finally won, and everything was going down as the people had warned. Then how did this financial problem work out with this program, a budget disposal procedure. In fact, it was a lot of fun sitting in conferences or meetings and having to answer in time and time: How on earth did you think of doing this? Here, however, it is not on the table. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I can't quite understand why there has been a lot of debate over it on account of those who want to finish this case and why these decisions are being made, why the surrender is so great. I think you can have a pretty well-written sheet of A4, and even more than one sheet, of questions that have been raised here. As you look at the times and news reports and news reports from the Secret Bank, it's very interesting to see when this retreat actually begins. May 25 finally informs the bank of an invitation, and this was to be done in October 2015. I remember that much pressure was under pressure and there was a lot of effort to get this done until all sorts of complications were in the way there. Then May 30th celebrates the Federal Assessment Corporation Moods, etc. June 8 and June, the Federal Bank calls on how all of this is going to work. Then it's like something happens, and I have to say, unfortunately, it's on June 9th, my birthday, when the bank seems to jump off and run from all this. That's where the bank's having an appointment and changing terms, deadlines, and then it goes on. June 13, again the terms are changed. June 14 is the bank trying to explain, like I see this here, that the retreat has begun. It is interesting in the context of things to see when all of this takes place. It is also interesting to see that there is one journalist who has observed this, has been worried about it, and has written on this article. I have to mention that it seems that the fine Ægisson of Hörgisson had observed this very carefully and had written a number of news stories in which the importance of standing up seems to have been discussed, the importance of following this program. Let's not forget that the plan is done very professionally, of course. There are foreign sources, foreign counselors, to help as has been observed here, even without accepting any fee. Of course, it depends on the formula and prescription to go as far as possible legally against these sources and will not be provided by the legitimate demands of Iceland. So this big question is always hanging over, like a dog. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason came in: What really happened? Why did they go that way? There may be something that will become evident later, but here we are making that decision, if this case ends, whenever it is now, that we may not push the finish but at least take another step in this retreat. There's a lot of money at stake there, Madam President, so it's important for us to realize. Whether these are 11 billion or 25 billion or whatever the discount or the loss will be, there are 84 billion below and that's a high amount, much can be done for it, the difference between the parties or the negotiations or what we should call it today, much that can be done for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u401	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. I don't know if he mentioned it in his speech, but I heard him speaking in an antiquated voice on the committee's point of view. The Economic and Business Committee. This is exactly what we've been doing in talks, and I mentioned earlier, and I'm thinking of a big question mark in my mind. This would have to be done in speeches, if the members of the other party could have come here and informed us, those who also tell us we're going down on this matter. But I need an answer, and I would like to consider that point with the senator. The commission says, with permission of the president: A review to the Committee highlights the importance of the submission of the bill before the date of the pay date for a certain rate of the Reichletter. Otherwise, the amount of available property will increase by nearly 70% or by about 25 billion dollars. The review says: "As this increases the risk that large African creditors who have had their own letters in continuous possession from sea to sea and that they are likely to reinvent in Icelandic bonds when their letters arrive on their due date on February 26, will be replaced by their releases from fixed accounts. (For fully formatted text, see publication) It's in the opinion of the committee, and it's in my mind something that we should just swallow, but I need to know. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator can't answer my questions, but does he not agree with me on that concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u402	A respectable president. In a chapter of the committee's opinion as of today. A member of the body quotes the Commission's comments on the bill. Commenting on the bill, we read that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Presidency has worked together. However, there is no explanation for any warning. I wondered, in the light of the question of the day. The senator's comments on the Council Bank have not been made on the bill, i.e. Whether they had any concern at the time but then put them on paper when it became clear on December 14 that the matter would not be finished and later taken care of. It is well - known that humans try to finish matters. This is one of the things we have called for answers to, what is really included in a comment or a statement or in the Office on the Issue. Why is this danger possible? Why do people estimate that it is there? There's something else we can think about. It refers to 25 billion, a high number, but we are also talking about a very large number when we consider the discount that will be given today if the case is going to work out. I feel like there's no support for the case, because it's been called out for him all night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u403	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. That's when we're concerned with them, and we're getting less concerned for reasons than when we're talking about 25 billion and what we're dealing with. One comes to mind what has been presented, that it is as if we are not to understand it, but we should be confident that this is the case. That's not good. I also think of why. A senator quoted the articles After Ægisson, which I earlier understood and seemed to be very well - thought - out and assembled, that the comments also do not seem to have reached those who have caused them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u404	President. No, the warnings do not seem to have reached the ears of those using machines in that case after April or May 2016. It seems that during the summer, the change in policy was immediately due to the lack of stress in the agreed program. The media, including a media player, warned in their writings that there would be a turning away from the policy because it was really unfounded, everything would be done right and everything would be done in Iceland, the Icelandic government, on the case. So it would have in itself been no purpose to bring joy to the creditors or leftovers, what we call them, by making deals specifically with them, or by providing some payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-26-70.u405	Madam President. The President's calling for more conflict, and I'll do my best. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is making a case of the retreat, as he values it at the Secret Bank, in fact, starting on his birthday on June 9, 2016. All right. You could say that there's a point at this point. But I don't like it. A senator easily slipped past the events that occurred when the Councilman announced that he and the government made a deal of over 90 billion dollars. We're the owners of a delta at 137.5. When does this happen, Madam President? On my birthday, March 12th. We need to consider these things in context. In fact, it may have been a bad day, for that same day some relief was placed on the public, which was actually to occur before the release of an African owner. Perhaps this was allowed to float to the public so that they would be less careful as to be opposed to the princely rule that the public and so forth, should be released. But there was something else that took place on March 12, e.g. Then, in 2015, Iceland broke off the discussion with the European Union. Gonna go for it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson protesting the fact that the debate with the European Union played a key role in strengthening Iceland's contract? More important, those who had thought of nothing more than to get into the European Union and who wanted to please all potential foreigners to increase the chance of getting in there could become more focused on accepting that Iceland was going to protect itself. [[The president calls.]]
