ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-133.u1	President. No matter what you think of the third energy package, many Americans are concerned about an electronic cable. If he was laid, the governmental arrangement would be right up. The Friðrik of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson were completely explained that if these watchmen were put in, i.e. that the Council would have to come up with a decision on a cable, have to do a lawsuit here and start with social talk, etc., as has been done in our midst by the middle class. We're agreeing, and it'll be agreed, although the Central Party votes against such defenses by law, by electronic law, by government policy, to agree with Generalis's approval. People may not trust the General. No. But that means that the smaller part could be involved in filibusters. It is very interesting than they say: Yes, but heard, this doesn't mean. You will eventually be confronted with whether they want to pay damages or accept this. At any rate, this discussion will take place at any time, and it must take place at the Council. That's what's available by voting with this case. It's very interesting that the middle-class members vote at the contrary, looking down into their bosom. They know it's a good thing. It's a good thing to let the General talk about this in the future. [[The president calls.]] They don't want to vote with the case because then someone might misunderstand it as if they were voting with the energy package. [[The president calls.]] This vote is clearly more important to politics than setting up defenses for the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-133.u2	Then the work of this brief Senate is completed in accordance with the agreement made before a summer break. I thank the senators for their good cooperation, as well as the staff of the Generals. I expect us to meet together safely when the General Assembly gathers in over a week at the assembly of the 150th legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-02-133.u3	Iceland's number tells: That, apart from the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to delay the discovery of the General Assembly, 149th legis, from 2 September 2019, or later, if necessary, to September 10, 2019. Lock onto those stations, August 28, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this authority and by references to the approval of the General Assembly, I declare that the General Assembly, 149th C.E., is suspended, and I thank you very much. Allied members and staff of the Generals for a great performance at the assembly that is finally over. After just eight days, we'll meet again at a New Parliament for a council meeting. I wish. The members of Parliament are a success in preparing meetings, and it is hoped that this assembly will be of great benefit to the people of the land.
