ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u1	Mr. President. Waste treatments are not considered sufficiently environmentally friendly in this country, and recycling is not sufficient. There's trouble in most parts of the country except the southwest corner. It's important that everything here is going well, and especially when you look at Iceland's image and climate status. With the new geographer, or record station, the village is taking a big step. I have encouraged the government to set up a task force, the representatives of state and rural society and the experts and their tasks needed to be the chief: the agreed mandatory system for the whole country, the division of the country in their district, the transport system of waste within each district with a limit to drive, recycling and recycling within a country where it is possible, the transfer to a country from certain ports, landworks and assessments in each district, a kind of mini-Corp, burning waste, only where the need is constant, and the use of waste alone. Costs are high, and in many cases in excess of income. Therefore, the agreement between the state and the community needs to be made on how financial matters should be handled in behalf of the environment and the population. In order to be well paid, some increase may be necessary. This is once so that this kind of service cannot be run at profit or profit drive, so the switch between state and rural society has to come and a considerable contribution of the State to the people and the environment, as I said. I believe that waste treatment will be adequately managed within two to three years at the most and until this has to be maintained by temporary solutions. This is a large, transnational project, and this work is already started in part at the Environment and Resource Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u2	Mr. President. The proposals of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter on tax matters were made yesterday, and they covered what has already been done and proclaimed in the matter of dress talks. What has been determined is that any changes made to tax and relief systems will be best reported to those with less value. It's a matter of righteousness, and it's actually good for society. People are happier in equal communities and equal society is a better society for all. The government has raised the pay markets for the employment of sensibilities and disability pensioners from 25,000 to 100,000 dollars. and has increased capital taxes. It has increased pay and improved basic work benefits of almost 20%, increased child damage, increased reimbursement due to the dental costs of sensibilities and changes in the law on the employee's tenures and incorporated chain responsibilities in certain sectors. It has been paid ten times as much as a day because of violations of the workforce and work-place surveillance laws. Health contributions have been greatly improved and have begun to reduce the payment of patients. It started with the most vulnerable group, the elderly, and the poor. Changes are then being proclaimed against social subheadings, social social social social security, and man traders. The new low - income tax phase is a big step in the right direction. This is exactly what this government declared, that the actions that would be taken in terms of taxes would be to reduce the tax burden of low income and lower intermediate groups. It transports the Icelandic tax system toward the Norwegian tax system from flat tax systems. I must also welcome plans to extend my birth certificate to 12 months. It's a big step in equality. Then there is the availability of social housing systems, including by adding to the building of the overall residence system over the next few years. This is a big step toward achieving a healthy tenet. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, will continue to take steps further in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u3	V.E.G. President. Me and the Icelanders want to protect the health of the Americans. We don't let a salmon chicken on the bank, it's thrown out. We have high demand for food production and are in a much sought - out position for food safety. We have all the opportunities and opportunities to advance to other nations in the production of wholesome food, both marine and agricultural products. Food should not necessarily flow freely from country to country, such as other products, not in situations where public health from food has to be protected, which can have harmful effects on health. Iceland has a unique position that makes it easier to protect itself from disease, to avoid the spread of antibiotics, and to reduce the spread of such bacteria because we are an island of pure farms. Icelandic farmers have watched, cultivated the land, gained quality production, quality food, and truly have some special facilities where, for example, it is. There is, for example, a drug use in the lowest part of the world, and the use of genetically modified food is forbidden. The aims of the agricultural system all go down to ensure the highest quality food for the people of the country that meets the highest standards of equipment. We often discuss Icelandic agriculture, its importance, its purity, and the unique conditions we have here on land, where we live on an island, where we can protect ourselves from disease and such. Therefore, we need to be on guard now. We are now confronted with changes, but we must never go to law and judge over real benefits to society. We're losing a special position because we're dealing with legal nonsense while we're not discussing a real problem. Let us take the discussion to a higher level and listen to people with knowledge and experience. It is not just about the profit of farmers and consumers, the protection of healthy farms, the benefit of a few people in the store, but about our future and our children, our public health and general health for the future. With candidates, we invite a meeting and a discussion of these important matters at the Bavstar Hall tomorrow evening. There's a lot of interest here for country and nation. [[The president calls.]] Let us get the discussion to a higher level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u4	Mr. President. This happens, and fortunately, it is often that there is good news coming out of the business. This morning the Haguens reported that 1,608 companies were rated rapidly during this period. Rapid growth means an average of 10% growth per year. There are 977 companies in the number of employees in these years. This is the good news that we should celebrate, and when we see that these companies give a total of 33,000 people a job we have here in this hall, as I have at times tried to reiterate, wondering how we can raise these companies further. What can we do here, the lawgiver, to make it more appealing to start a business, to achieve the success of owning an enterprise and running a rapidly growing business, on average 10% interest each year? Of course, the tax system plays a major part of the network, including the surveillance system. And when we read such good and positive news about the fast growth of companies, we do well to ask ourselves: " Is that all we can do? Can we not, in one way or another, here in this room encourage and say to the pioneers and to professional drivers: Let us help you, let us contribute to your becoming even more successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u5	V.E.G. President. Electric cigarettes, or waveheads, have probably become an excellent tool for the habit of using tobacco. It is unmistakably true that tobacco is toxic and is harmful to the health of those it uses. Tobacco smoke has a wide range of toxic substances other than nicotine. In this regard, woes are good tools for habitual smokers, although they are better than cigarettes. Studies show that large parts of high school use woes every day. Children become addicted to oral smoke with cherry flavours or other flavors, and they do not realize that they are nicotine addicts until it is too late. An electric autism is also irritating to the lungs, and since young people are still developing during this time, electricityic fluid affects the lungs. Whiskers are produced with all kinds of flavors. They have become fashion, especially among young people, and two days ago it was reported that in Barney New York's high - fashion shop, Barneys' apartment in Beverly Hills next month opens up a luxury branch office. The store, called The High End, will be able to buy a variety of cannabis, such as cosmetics, wave pens, and 180,000 jars. Scalp. The idea is to push the culture into the direction that people can come by way of a bottle of wine to a dinner party. The policy is to give people an experience skimmed by the stereotype of cannabis addicts who stay in their home eating pizza all day long. According to this, I'd like to say that from the treatment sector at home, I have news that the number of patients caused by cannabis is fairly increasing and so is concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u6	A respectable president. The trinity of the government is one of the most important features of the democratic government that we have here. The idea was put forth when all the power of a kingdom was in the hands of kings and emperors. This triennial process involves the division of authority into three, legislators, executives, and jurists. The purpose of the idea was to prevent one individual from getting too much control over society. The idea was to secure equal power and to prevent the tyranny of the government over the inhabitants of the country. This is the idea, this is the government arrangement that we in the Icelandic nation have decided to have here on the land. The government is responsible for the legal and judicial authority. From the concept of the government arrangement, democracy itself, not to be appointed to sit in the council, but here is all the task force at the council, except for one minister. Each minister sits in a council hall with two hats, a minister on the other hand and a senator on the other. This is against the constitution that we, each of us and every senator and minister, signed when we began our work here. We signed an oath. This is the selection of elected representatives. Now, since I believe that the government and its proposals for the union speech, I have this to say, really?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u7	Mr. President. As an advocate of children's Party of Pirates, on the basis of a project that UNICEF presents as a child support agent and as an agent of children, I have tried to study how to fulfill the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. I've asked the Department of Social Affairs about two babies born both in Iceland. One of them does not get a living permit even if his parents have a student's license. There's a hole. As for the other child, the parents are applying for a visa here, and that process is being treated, but the child is not being treated and I received confirmation today. I met them in the court and talked to their lawyer. This is Erna Reka, 19 months old. She does not receive a social number, does not receive a legal registration, and is therefore not given the social rights they say we should give children entirely regardless of their parents'status. That's the situation. I asked UNICEF: What is the most contrary to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights? It says that courts, lawgivers, and executives should put it first in the child's best interests. That's the law in the country. I ask: What keeps the child's rights from being fulfilled? They said, "There's a government induction problem. " We are faced with a 19 - month - old child who is supposed to have the same rights as other children, regardless of her parents' position, under the law, but the National Act doesn't want to give a social security number. Although it is authorized to give an exception to ensure child's rights, it rests in those institutions. Therefore, health institutions cannot provide health care for other children in Iceland, and school authorities cannot provide school and school schools. The child's rights are broken in this respect. I'm going to ask for a report to the prime minister, she's going to receive it, about the child's rights: Who will enforce all the rights of the children of the country? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking all the minister of the matter; health minister, education minister, social and child - care minister and Minister of Justice, how is this about the situation? We're going to get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u8	Mr. President. The response of the labor movement to government corruption on tax issues was somewhat predictable. The government has, ever since it took over, tried to settle its share in the solution of the ongoing struggle. It was a mistake. As a result, the government has built high expectations for the labor movement's leadership of future played. So her disillusionment of authority is not surprising. This does not mean that the loss of the government on tax matters is entirely unusable. The suggestions presented are of interest, even if they are not of the magnitude expected by the labor movement. These ideas can be handled well, and other exports could also be considered that would improve the quality of the largest income groups, as such. ideas that were put forth on the basis of a meeting area on increase in prosperity, and we in Reunion have based our suggestions on tax issues. The failure of the government is a mistake in expected management. It is not the role of governments to conduct dress-off talks or to plan too much of a role in their solution. The responsibility for the solution of the bullpen is always first and last with the labour market. Nor should political parties, whether in more or less, be taking advantage of disputes for political purposes. This government has repeatedly made an effort to elevate itself and its importance to solve the current labour market situation and sit with its eggs in the face after that effort. The lesson must be learned. All of us who are involved in politics have the responsibility to do our part in solving the knot in which the dispute has taken place, but it does not interfere. It is also true to remind us that disputes do not have and that governments do not have laws. Kjaradeila, which is directed primarily to the General and Government, but not to employers, is a political commitment and is such a violation of the Labour Code. It is also part of the labor movement's responsibility to perform such a procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u9	Mr. President. Dissociating activity and a systematic job theft at the labour market in this country, unfortunately. The point has been quite recent. In particular, Member States in Iceland have called for payment on pay thefts by fines. Today, unions are only able to require retrospective pay on the basis of paid remuneration. Last year, the General Assembly met with a legal bill for the Central Committee on Remuneration and Justice Acts at work in a labour market. The primary purpose of the bill is that there is a law against paying a minimum wage. A year ago, I sent to ASI to get a response from a guilty bill. ASI objected that the fines made by employers who steal money were more likely to have a home law that would put pressure on them, similar to the taxpayer's pay. So I changed the bill after these comments and sent back in October. to the unions VR, Intens and ASI. Now, four months later, I haven't had an answer. Mr. President. A general council has been criticized for many things, and some claim that members of Congress do little. In this case, I have worked hard to see that the lawgiver handles the ills that pay theft has become in our community. It will be as far as unions are concerned with this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u10	A respectable president. Agricultural and agricultural minister authorized yesterday to continue fishing for long periods of time and to jump to 2023. He said that the decision was based on counseling the National Institute of Marine Research, a recent report by the Institute of Economics that is not at all indiscriminate as we know, as well as a memo from the Marine Research Institute for the report. That decision is most disappointing, and I ask myself, " What does it serve to grant such permission? ' It is true that the Institute of Economics said little to suggest that whaling has a negative effect on Iceland's tourism and image, but there was no consultation with the tourism services, and there are no calculations on the potential impact of major whales in Iceland's research companies and tourism. According to the report, 46 fish were caught in 2016. At that time, the fishing took over 42 million. K. However, a recorded loss of business was 3.8 billion. K. I believe that we have already spent too much money on public funds to strengthen a few amateurs on whaling and, as noted, the fishermen were not up to their business in 2014◯2017. The report suggests that the animal's well - being laws are not being passed in the case of the death of whales. The median time from shooting to recorded death in non-fastly whales was eight minutes that could not be considered satisfactory in the slaughter of several species. There is little evidence that whales will ever reach their former employment status, and there is even greater danger that such fishing will gain the acceptance of the international environmental institutions. In my opinion, the basic premise of the use of natural resources is that it is based on sustainableity, as the government has repeated, and the head of the marine espionage repeated in an interview on January 17 of RUS. This means that economic impacts are positive, social impacts are positive and the resource will not be damaged for the future. While there are no predictable markets for whale meat, it may be granted that fishing will not become sustainable because without the market for meat there is no economic gain. [[The president calls.]] Nor should we risk putting one of our most important business at risk, a travel service. We can't afford it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u11	Mr. President. It is a remarkable fermentation that is worthy of careful attention in the political affairs of Britain these days. It was referred to lightly by the last speech of the senator here yesterday, whose seven members of the Labour Party had dismissed him and had formed a special assembly and announced the formation of a new political party. Now there has been an even greater death to the Labour Party, but it is noteworthy that this group has been joined by three of the British Parliamentes. It's quite remarkable to think about how this is happening. Of course, it is very close to pointing to the British B cancer problem, but it is also a fact that the Labour Party has moved far to the left under Corbynur and has been very bifocal in the European languages, and since then it has been discovered or at least he is accused of being a Jewish - minded. At the same time, the conservative party has moved right to an increasingly similar UKIP, the British independence party. At a press conference earlier today, Dr. Anna Soubry, who has now separated from the Maintenance Party, said in my loose translation, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: You don't join to fight him. The battle is over, and the opponent will survive as a winner. The hard line of the right men has taken over. There goes the front of the strange outfit of extremes in the EU. They now have laws and praises in the British Stabilities. This is a highly informative development, and it makes it clear that political tensions are increasing, and the extremes are increasing. But there is no room for the mind to disappear here and to the evolution that has been in Icelandic politics. Of course, the similarities of the Icelandic Independence Party and the British Stabilities are striking. [[The president calls.]] However, the joy of being able to make room for international liberals to get a farm, and we do so in the woodfield.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u12	A respectable president. As has not been overlooked, in the past few weeks and even months we have discussed some of the speed - management efforts in the transport system. It in itself is good; it is an important matter in front of us. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation wrote down ideas in the week, which have happened to me as well as to other members of the council on a lawsuit, that this is not the only way to implement these projects. He said money from government companies. We, many members of the Independence Party, have mentioned the sale of property. One component of this route led to the results of the environment and transport committee, that there is no equal basis for the participation of foreign tourists as well as taxation. It is estimated that up to 40% of the cost of building is paid by foreign tourist traffic. From that point on, I think it is very important that we look at this way of building on the speed - building process in the transport system, not permanent tax, but temporary services on which we are assigned to cover costs, as was done in the Half like those of the Hagve. This is then stopped when projects have been paid up. If there is an increased scope for government affairs beyond what was expressed to us in the government proposal yesterday about 18,000 million that would be used in tax reforms to those in particular less lenient in the community, I believe that we should further reduce permanent taxes. In this context, it would normally be to eliminate the first car tax in 1988 and then increase 1990. It would be a permanent removal of taxes, as in the case of the highest rate. Secretary of finance permanently cancels all customs and goods. By making such a decision, we would increase the government's contribution to the working class from 18,000 million to 25,000 million because the car costs are about 7 billion a year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u13	A respectable president. There was certain expectations that the workers had yesterday for the play that has long been waiting for at the hands of the government. 18 billion, says 'w'. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, tax reduction to those who have failed. What does that mean? $6,500. every month, 80,000 k. every year. I wonder if this priority of budgeting up to 18 billion dollars. Do we live up to the expectations that our workers had for the government? I think the answer is obvious: No. At the same time it seems completely impossible for those here to sit, boy. Generals, can show by their actions that they can possibly identify with poor people who do not make ends meet after months 10 and 20. That's why you're asking, "Is this a joke with $6,500?" a month's reform with these taxes? There's still a tax on poverty. By now, a total of 1 60,000 dollars have begun to be taxed. per month. It is only a request of justice, an equation, and the need to stop taxing poverty as soon as it was also called on to draw this disgusting house out of the index, which has cost an Icelandic home some 118 billion dollars. over a period of five years. I say, it's better if it's enough. Sadly, the prospects are bleak ahead of us when it is possible that we may begin to face a serious situation in the community that will also cost us more money than we wish. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u14	Mr. President. I don't think there's much more important for us today than to ensure that future generations know who owns this land and the data it belongs to, including our most important resource, the fishing grounds. The law says that they have the fishing grounds and the right to dispose of them. There is no remarkable debate, and many people argue either that they can have nothing or that they have fish in the water themselves. This can be determined once and for all by accepting a new constitution. I watched a discussion on the activities of the council yesterday that discussed this. We know that a new constitution for ten years, with national meetings, with a administrative body, has been established by national regulations and endless discussions, but exactly nothing has happened. You ask yourself, " How is it that nothing happens? ' They're looking for some broad solid solidarity on the general review of the Constitution, but it always stops at something. We all know, and that's why I decided to speak here today, at what stops. In fact, those who believe that they have these fishing grounds today or the ultimate right to use them cannot comply with such regulations. We can see both words and even judgments, such as the man who went through the mackerel language last year that men pretend to have something in him that the government or the public has far less to say than those who go to the fishing grounds today. That's why I say we have to stop listening to the voices of representatives of these powers. We have to take it out, settle it, set this new arrangement in the constitution, and that before the next election. Then, in the future, other matters can be completed, such as the direct democracy and the role of the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u15	President. The government's proposal for the workforce has led to great disappointment by the leaders of the labor movement. It does not count enough work to do in view of the sum below. However, this is also the nature of the methods of surprise, especially since it is the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, offering the proposals to complicate the tax system through an increase of tax steps back to three just after it was reduced to two as high as the highest level. The minister of finance considered a worthy and important subject. It is also surprising that there is the possibility of answering a couple's match. Not long ago, the independent party preached that the work of those working at home should be respected, but now it seems that it is forgotten or no longer important. V.E.G. A proposal for a more complex tax system and the removal of a couple's corresponding tax system is presented by the members of the Independence Party. How much wiser it would have been to make use of the opportunity now available and the will that exists, at least in the large part of the labor movement, to attack system change, serious financial reforms in Iceland. This and less interest can achieve huge improvement for the entire public in Iceland, but not just for people, but also for the companies, both parties in the labour market. This, too, does not mean any significant expenditure on the part of the State. It simply involves greater national benefits and economic benefits, real biospancies, for the people and businesses of the country. That is why it is a sin if the government is not going to take advantage of this opportunity but, rather, will react by inflating the tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u16	Mr. President. Pirats don't have a formal policy in this case, so I'm just speaking for myself. I am a spokesman for free trades between countries, but I find that it is a quick mistake to renew a free trade with a tyrant. Turkey is no longer classified as a democracy among political scholars but as a monarchy. There's only a token of human rights in this contract. EFTA does not require that human rights be respected for free trade agreements. All talk that business and human rights are not involved in business contracts is a welcome connection when the connection is clearly established when it comes to plagiarism. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u17	Mr. President. We're here to vote for validation of an updated holiday deal with Turkey. For example, in the EFTA treaties with other countries it is mandatory that Member States confirm their commitment to the terms of democracy, legal regulations and freedom of the people in accordance with their duties. This is true of other vacation contracts involved in Iceland. Has it been charted how the EFTA holiday treats contribute to the freedom of the people, democracy and justice in the states where the EFTA countries have agreed? How has a free trade deal with Turkey contributed to democracy and freedom of people in Turkey Erdogans, where emergency law still exists, hundreds of journalists remain in prison, staff members of human rights organization have been imprisoned, and Kurds have been persecuted and imprisoned without trial and law? All of this has taken place ever since Iceland's holiday deal with Turkey in 1992. If we are to be honest, it would be best to skip the preludes of free trade agreements that stipulate the commitment of countries to support democracy, legal rights, and human rights. [[The president calls.]] How on earth are they followed, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u18	Mr. President. I can't pay this proposal my vote, including. Because of the extensive human rights crimes taking place in Turkey and also because I found here an ideal opportunity for governments to pressure the government in Turkey to provide information on the survival of Haukur son of Hilmarsson. There was a court pass, and I can't support this proposal as she stands for it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u19	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter and what. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Ævardósdótir's challenge to the serious violations of human rights that are going on there. It is also shocking that there was no discussion here with Haukur's son Hilmarsson. That is a sin. But I'm going to say yes to the synonym because I'm a follower of increasing the human rights of the people, and it's possible that this will happen. I'm going to make a definite analysis because I don't think we're here to do the government job on these matters, the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Prime Minister. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u20	Mr. President. I believe that increasing international communication through business dealings, free trade agreements, and other factors contribute to greater democracy and human rights. The EFTA states signed a free trade deal with Turkki 1992, and since then the development of human rights has only been one way in my opinion, downhill. There is an increasing violation of human rights, and it is not to say that the 1992 contract has provided what I want to see. On the other hand, I also support the development of this contract, of course, fully validated and expanded, as laid out in that belief, and hopefully, with the assurance that a general review of how the holiday agreements have proved to be, including, in the case of the accident, will be conducted. to fuel and promote greater human rights around the world, especially with those nations with whom we live in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u21	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of local screening for a new airfield at the Westland. In addition to this, two prominent members of the council, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdótttir. The suggestion reads as follows: ▪ The General concludes to hide transport and local government minister to attack local selection for a new airfield for the Western quarter, which is involved in increasing tourism, increased food production, industry, and the need for transport, both within and outside the country. This study includes long-term weather measurements and evaluations of natural conditions. This will be measured by the needs of the fourth quarter when a tunnel and roads are established for the north and south of the West as one area of employment and habitat. A report by this council resolution suggests that the proposal is proposed to promote improvements in air travel on the West. During the 1960's and 1970's, there were road transports in the West quarter of the original population and are, in fact, still in the year 2019. At that time, it was merely a dirt road that most people were not built up to close in the first snow. As a result, a number of small airports in the West Coast were raised, with a total of 25 on a regular basis, but the trend has been that only seven of them are on the list by the airport authorities. Three larger airports were fixed to the main urban core, i.e. Ísafjörður Ísafjörður and Patrekjörður. Standard selection has been determined by geographic conditions and the capacity for agriculture available at the time. Little or no consideration could be given to important factors, such as weather, wind, and blind flying, for all blind flights on the West are relatively primitive and are often impossible because of a mistake. A respectable president. In recent decades, some improved transport has changed the situation. The public and the company depend on road transport in increasing numbers, including where flights are inaccessible for weather and landing conditions. The western settlement has been divided when it comes to road transport, although now a mirage under a brighter period of time. The road length and full wound healing will likely continue to develop in a positive direction. I'm sure flying in the present form will change in the same way. A respectable president. Flights are difficult in the mountains, so there are two main reasons. One reason is that the other is the influence of psychics and skyscrapers on blind flying. Both problems can be minimized by good local choice. In addition, there is an increasing demand for flight, decontamination, and all the flight plans. The only way to make a more reliable flight transport is to make a new airport, or a new airport, as here's a suggestion, in which local health measures are taken. Modern air transports for international migration are expensive due to the small size. For example, the level of activity needed to make a 19 - year - old flight aircraft is relatively small compared to that of larger species of airplanes, while the cost for each seat is undeniably greater for smaller aircraft. You may now fly west on my fjords, and Iceland's airline is no longer flying on a bigger plane where it's not suitable for Isafjörður Airport. As we have seen, the number of foreign tourists has increased. For the most part, however, they have traveled through the Cheflavík Airport at their arrival in the country. Likely, this trend can be influenced to a significant extent by changing emphasis and organization. Careful consideration should be given to the possibility of creating the country a stronger facility for the defined groups of travelers, as an example of those who want to enjoy the natural world in peaceful places, e.g. ... ontheWestlands. Such groups would, e.g. Applying sea travel, sailing, hiking, hiking, and a history and nature inspection to name something. With an airport in the midfield of the quarter, which could take over 70 to 100 cute passenger planes, you could fly straight into the area without getting to the area at Keflavík. This would reduce the pressures of the airport at Chefavík and the possibilities of the country's more productive tourist country. In the case of medical transport, facilities at the Western Institute have been significantly reduced, as well as the requirements for specific and rapid action of health care professionals are increased. Medical flight will allow for the predictable future to be inevitable and urgent service. Improvements in flying transport with new, well - located airports could have a basic significance if health - care conditions do not change much more, which is, in fact, against the developments in the country. However, new health policies are expected to promote the core of health institutions in the country to worthwhile projects. A respectable president. The international airport increases the possibility of freight transport and provides additional opportunities for fresh marine products to be placed abroad. Today it is only available to companies on the southwestern corner of the country. The International Airports of Akureyri and Eunice have been used only in a limited way to such transport. As there is increasing development in local fish farming, as well as the traditional work of body fish, consider whether the market grounds for transport of fresh products directly to buyers abroad. A respectable president. Current conditions in general for flight have always been primitive on the West. There's no clean-up airport at the Vestlands at the moment. Since the airport at Patrecks'farm has the advantage of being on a large plain, such areas as security can be covered according to current standards. This airport, on the other hand, has been decommissioned, and humans rely on the Bilddal Airport. The location of Bildudal is as good as it can be with wind, but the course is pressed in terms of blind flight and flight. Thus, that field will always be a visual field according to definition. It is short, but since relatively small machines are flying into this area, it has been considered quite good for this use. There is yet another stadium in Thyatira, and blind flights due to mountains close to them cannot be made. Moreover, the western slope is near the highest and steepest mountain range on the West. Thus, the airport is impervious by wind in the rough west direction, creating the famous Mount Sandafell block at takeoff to southeast, which narrows away. This airport was improved several years ago to serve as a reserve airport for Ísafjörður in a harsh and adverse direction, but the pilot who serves the Icelanders has not chosen to use it as such. Special attention should be paid to the use of animal transport in aerospace for the West, to the opinion of what is being presented here, and to transport by improved transport between the southern and northern areas of the West. The animal-engineered airport would be a central area, with the development of animal soils, but the current location would certainly diminish its usefulness. Of course, the ice-future airport is the most important airport we rely on on on in the West, where things are most frequent. The airport is a child of its time. The location is unfortunate, both approach and flight are extremely critical and in the east may be very conflicting. Many have flown to Isafjörður and have described this experience in various ways, in a number of ways, as if a great experience, in a tragic way, in life - threatening way, as they get off the plane. The stadium is used in the flying world as an example of one of the most challenging landing sites in the world plan. Aviators look to Isafjörður Airport as adventurers with a venture in it. Despite the facts, a passenger flight through Isafjörður has been successful through the years, which, fortunately, hopefully, will continue while he is in use. There must be another and better location, e.g. has been called north of the Skulls' fun, his mother's mouth, where a path of up to 1,200 feet [1,200 m] may be located. This location is comparable to the location of the Bilddal Airport and solves virtually all wind - related problems. Both the approach and the flight would be much easier. The cost and benefit of the airport building must be evaluated in that location. In view of experience and the history of the United States, it is hardly wise to contribute funds unless modern flight and flight demand can be met, as well as the demand for safety and prevention. When choosing the location of the airport, such an option must always be expected. A respectable president. Over the years, flights at the West have been under difficult conditions. The conditions for traditional international airports that meet all the requirements for management may be difficult to deal with inland weather, and it is suggested that conditions be carefully investigated and options be set up in those areas. This proposal suggests that the fourth level of development of a future airport will be taken into total measure, which will be able to benefit people and work as well as to those who have the best perspective and knowledge. It is not before the fact that there is already knowledge of a wide range of local situations that can be used during the evaluation of the points under consideration. The construction of a new airport is extensive and costly, and effort and preparation are needed. It is suggested that weather analysis be started at potential sites. At this stage, it is suggested that the long term weather measurements be performed at three sites, i.e. in the east, in the north, below the ground of Skull, and in the inner depths of Iceaf, or in other places where experts in that field would consider a reason to examine further. A respectable president. The proposal is not to demand large sums of money to be made. It is requested that there be money to start weather readings that may, as in other areas, be used as well. Preparation for the future is expected to be established, and there are many obstacles and conditions that will not be maintained today. The future is uncertain and outlook on transportation, climate change, new flying technology, changes in public tourism, opening a new port, linking our next neighbor, e.g. Greenlanders, who are planning large increases in tourism activities, may change and develop in ways that are different from what we anticipate. Hence, it is reasonable that circumstances, prior to the time when we would like to begin and create a song, were fully examined, which could speed up possible projects. A respectable president. According to this, I hope to suggest this proposal to get careful coverage and many comments through a dignified environmental and transport committee and reach a point of approval at the high Council on spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who is the son of Brjánsson for his well-being. Of course, all research for transportation is good. I have to admit, there's one suggestion inside that I'd like to ask. A senator in whom I consider to be somewhat at odds with the goals presented in the synonym arrangement. It is that the assessment of long-term weather measurements and natural conditions should be performed under the subdiposed Isobar conditions, e.g. to Smokejanes, as the motion says. I'd like to hear what it's like. A senator and his importers will think of a location in relation to transport and tourism. I think the main thing must be if you think there's a new airport that's connected to the Isafjörður area. We have a Bilddal Airport on the south side of the West, which, fortunately, happens to be in the countryside, at least the last time I knew, to be the airport in Iceland that rarely ends because of the weather. The focus on the side must be to increase the number of flights and improve the service of the people living there. We see the success that was achieved by supporting the fact that there were two flights a day last year, a sad fall again. I reiterate my question, how do you think? paritaprevir The Brjánsson survey of the only option of the three which will be considered at the airport scene at an inner Ísafjörður depth, e.g. With Smokejanes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. There are three available for reconnaissance, and there could no doubt be more. I hope there are other places to consider when it comes to it. I believe the matter is urgent and that for a new airport, there should be a good standard check. It is true that Smokejanes, on the inside of Ishafjörður, may be at the edge of a new airport goal for the West 14th century. It highlights a little that it is realistic that in the future there will be only one good airport on the West Coast. It is not unusual for us to plan that there will be one good airport available on the West. It's a rough quarter. It's very difficult to see and it's about to fly. Based on natural conditions, professionals regarding flights believe that Smokejanes is the most economic airport, if one is going to make a great airport that meets all the demands of access, stability, landing position, and wide distance. That is why this is inserted and if checked, it would be inexplicable to see what comes out of it in comparison with other options.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brun's Brjánsson answers. First, I want to say that I think it's necessary for us to look for two airports that can serve the Westside. On the one hand, which looks forward to serving the Ísafjörður, and on the other hand, I think that we should look forward to supporting the Grand Prix, which is just as nice as it is, although it may not be long from what is now. I must say, I am still so surprised at the question. A senator on the possible airport at the Smokeynes. If we look geographically at it, it is the barriers that take place between south and north of the West, along with a tunnel of soils and more roads in a completely different area than the international airport in the Smokeynes area. I think if an airport park is found in the Isafjörður area that is designed to be an international airport, it may be considered, but we have to keep in mind that there will be two airports, at least, who serve the area in an upright manner. I don't think a new airport at Smokejanes is the answer to that, even though there are sublands that can't be found in many parts of the weather.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u25	A respectable president. I'm not very clever in geography, but I realize where Smokejanes is. It's not the middle of the West, but it's put in here. There's a runway at Smokejanes in Isafjörður, and I think it's very informative of all things because of weather data in view of safety in Rhines, no matter what the future may hold, we know so little about it. I realize that we are not working on the solution to finding an airport that could be suitable for tourism and employment drivers, air transport, for all the vests. Of course, it would be desirable for us to be able to keep the runways of all time. As it has been established, a valet field serves its place and the goal would be maintained. An accident is a compliment to learn that flight to Ishafjörg has been successful. We should thank great pilots who appreciate the situation properly and who do not think too much of it. Conditions are very narrow and difficult, and they have found their way into the world press more than once and more than twice, i.e. how adventurous that flight is and what song of adventure this is about to land. As I say, the championship is that an airport will be somewhere in the middle. Experts decide whether this is practical or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u26	A respectable president. I come up to agree with this synonym, and I'm one of her couriers. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson, 1st, before history. ▪ General concludes to hide transport and local government minister to attack local selection for a new airfield for the Westfjords quarter... As the report states, this proposal is put forward to further the air travel of the West. We've got three flights to fly on the West Coast, i.e. To Isenafa in Skull, to the Valley of Bildud, and to Gjögur. These are all important public transportation and life - styles of the Western world much of the year, as are the conditions today in transport during the quarter of the year. It is vital to protect the service and the safety that flights provide for the inhabitants of the West. Let's talk about Isafjörður Airport, located in Skulls, one of the 25 airports that have existed and used in the West. He was chosen at his time like other places in view of the transportation that were in those places, such as Skull fun, it was just out of the fun and hardly sometimes moved to Bolungarvík, let alone to other places. Today, the second century, and the location of this airport is very difficult, yet it has been reported several times that as many as half of the flights across the month have been dropped. Last year in February, for example. That's the spot upstairs. It's happened several times. It is sensitive to the southern, east, and southeastern suns, so it can hardly be blowing a lot, but it is quite good in the northeast, which is so predominant at home. Yet, things have all gone wrong too, and such have been the dominant subterranean directions, such as the U.S. Last winter and just like winter. A position in a narrow feather creates adverse conditions, and this is not possible. It's natural as the West are, they're very scales, and it's the same in most beaches. I think it's important to get out of the fun like those with knowledge point out. Westerners have pointed out this and challenged the government to monitor new airports on Western soil that could serve national and possibly international flights in the future. The landscape is now changing somewhat into transport on the West, with the development of animal soil and a new route through Daringrimur. It would expand the service area of such airports and new airports as an important prelude to the upcoming job structure in the national sector. It is quite ready, as with a Bilddal airport, mentioned in this connection, that we are not just talking about general weather conditions on the West Sea, which are so difficult to land, but the location of the airports so that weather conditions within the mountains make the flights very difficult, as well as when it is being taken off. In view of the use, it has been said that the Bilddal Airport is open in 90% of flight cases. Not many airports can meet that requirement. It's an airport built by locals, but it has limits. Not only is it too short, but I don't think it's allowed to exceed 18 seats. At times, however, only nine people are on the plane, which is limited by the length of the course. I just want to emphasize this by saying that there is a possibility somewhere else on the West. It is not only weather conditions that interfere with the possibilities but also geographical conditions. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in is being pointed to specific places like Smokeynes. I don't think we're tying ourselves to anything, either, so don't do it, but it's just a need to go to a new location check for the airports because of the new transportation. No matter what service area is chosen, whether the Smokeynes, in Animal High, Bildud, or Eagle Shield, the traders need to enter there and determine where to arrive. Many pilots and professionals in this regard have taken a look at the matter and have been able to determine where to build up. That's what matters. We're talking about building up a job that needs a service. We are also talking about the hospital flight, in a contribution from health policy, we are talking about pushing a service together even more. We look at the plane in the west as an essential factor in being able to attend emergency services here or even to Akureyri or wherever they will be controlled. Even if it's smaller machines that need shorter courses and all of this has been difficult. I think that's why it's a very safe matter. We also need to spread our tourists around the country, making special use of this means of transportation. I don't have numbers, but there's been an increase in the number of patients in the last flights since there's been a reduction in equipment in the Western Institute of Health. If we share birth together, the rate of high - risk births has increased as well as the increase in the currents on Western roads has also called for increased hospital flights. I just wanted to come here to say the suggestion. I hope that she will be well treated and treated in a transport program, that will be carried out, because we're just talking about a weather check and a local scan for a new airport, it's ready, and then a bigger project can be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u27	Mr. President. In the beginning of my speech, I want to thank the movers for putting forth this fine and interesting matter. As we know, flights are difficult in most parts of the West, and we also know that the location of airports today was all based on the time when the airports were laid. Therefore, there is good reason to reevaluate whether you can find a better location for the airport so that air transport can be used at least To some extent, public transportation in that area, not just with regard to domestic flights, but even as well. paritaprevir The Guðjón Brjánsson Brjánnsson came in with regard to international flights. I don't think it's likely, however, to be, at least not in the near future, any key size of transport to the West. On the other hand, I think, as comes even. ... in the report of the transporters, that by creating an environment that allows the aircraft to fly to some 70 to 100 people in the West, large groups from this capital area could be taken on a daily trip west to use the beautiful areas of tourism to a greater extent than it is currently being done. Only the three points mentioned by carriers have been discussed in the report, i.e. In the midst of Isafjörður, Skull, and Animal Joy. Of these, it is obvious, at least in the mind, that the local people would first visit Icefjordy, or Skull fun. But I think the dot measurements of the other positions can also give us a lot of information about the weather and the winds in the area that are relevant to the formation of a backup flight that we always need to consider. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir entered the medical flight in this connection and the importance of air transport in relation to health care in the West. Had myself been in that position to make both decisions and to go to hospital flights at those places, I have come to understand quite well how important it is to be confident that in the everyday work of health care care care professionals in the West, there can be a great deal of confidence that when you find a problem in the morning, it will be possible to get patients to a place where they can get the appropriate service within a few hours. This would greatly improve and would probably reduce the rate of the patient's flight if it were safe landing sites anywhere but now, i.e. it would be possible in more cases to decide to send a patient before he was in an emergency. Therefore, a strategy flight could be used more for that purpose than it is being done today. I think the proposal is a very high price price and a very interesting introduction to the discussion of flights and health care and travel services in the West. I look forward to seeing its outcome during the hearing of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u28	Mr. President. I would like to express my joy in this resolution and would like to stress that I believe that it will be taken forward and considered and taken care of by the council. I also call attention to the fact that there are good members of this district, including the U.S. has been suggested by the carriers of the proposal. I think it's important that we show both the ambition and the pride of those taking the case. This shows what matters to me, too, that we look at the whole country as a whole. In our restoration, we have repeatedly demonstrated our will, including ours. by seeking permission to attend a meeting of the country with its members. It's a matter of interest to the community, whether in the country or in the Great Lands, that we think of our country as a whole, that it will be built and acceptable for all of us to live where we choose to live. Part of it is building transport, e.g. the view of how we want to see the West has the potential to continue developing, to grow, and to thrive. A key to this is transport, which is one of the major factors, of course, health as well as indirectly and directly linked to transportation and education. Transport is a key factor for the Westland, not just the members of Congress, but all of us who have participated in the transport discussion for the past 20 years at the council. We know that they are the key to making the area viable for Westerners who want to live and stay there. Therefore, it is important that the animal tunnel is on its way and effective. It's a long way, but it needs to be done too, as we know, and we need to complete, not just say "A," we dare say "B" and "C" and all the alphabet is to make it possible for it to be built. This is where we're talking about a local screening for a new airport on the West Coast. I have found it during my journeys to the West, where I have talked a lot to the locals that it is urgent to go on the case and that it really is responsible if more money is to be put in place, as it says. In the council arrangement, with the permission of the President: In view of experience and Icelandic flight history, it is hardly wise to give money to performance unless modern requirements for flight and flight procedures can be met. There Istavia is indentated. In this regard, I think it is extremely important that we change just a little bit of Isaiah's activity and set up a business policy. It is time for the government to establish a tenant policy that involves responsibility to the region, to the West, to the international flight, including. At Akureyri, then at the Egls. How vital that we begin to push the project forward! It matters to me, and I would support this case. The locals tell me that it is quite acceptable to examine more advantages than Ishafjörður Airport, which is a child of its time, as we have seen. They're talking about the Valley of Avengers or Skulls' Fun in that area. Other locations have also been mentioned, e.g. Senator. I've had experience sitting on a Committee called Rackham, whose role was to map even. Airport parking near Reykjavík. It has long been said of Hólmsheh. Then, after a complete survey by the Committee, Hólmsheki was just not an option. Then they could be pushed off the table, stopped talking about it. Therefore, I think it is important that enough funds be placed in a survey so that they can be completed at a shorter time in some years, as some have talked about, preferably in the two years, the minimum time possible to perform a stable survey, and then take in the options that may be considered and put into those funds. This is of utmost importance, especially for Vestafíd to push the business. We can also see this if it will be direct international flights, as well as a targeted and regular linking of airports to international airports. Not only do we see a strong seabed but we also see the growing fish supply, which needs to be easy to travel to the market. It is also important that transport is a means of success, but the lack of it has greatly contributed to the lack of the development of employment life as well as to or that it could have been on the north side of the West, so I don't talk about health care. There is no denying that we are trying to establish powerful medical institutions. When we traveled through the Northeast standard for the development of the North American Institute of Health in Húsavík, we found that doing something of enormous importance is new and modern technology. It was a pleasure to learn how proud the local people were of this foreign - language organization that serves a large area. It is not unusual for the West to do the same, but it must be easy to travel. Therefore, I request that transportation on the north side of the West be immediately restored so that they can move on to the south. Then, as far as we can tell, we have made a trip north too, from Isfjordur to Reykjavík, where the National Hospital is. At the same time, we stress the importance of looking at ourselves as a whole of society with different emphasis. In fact, there are different priorities for the inhabitants of Hafnarfjörður in Reykjavík or its Seltjannes. Of course, we should try to meet the different needs in many parts of the country, and better transportation is being made to the west. This is a simple requirement, and it is both clear and understandable. Also, there are parishes in travel services. Although there is a temporary recession in the tourism industry, our country can receive more tourists. We see a range of parishes, as mentioned earlier, in the northeast, with links to Akureyri, Húsavík, and all of that territory, the county of Germany, but just as much as Isafjörður and Vest of anyone to be directed by tourists, which, in some respects, is the ideal area for building up diverse and efficient tourism. To do so again, a respectable president, an airport where regular flight routes can be relied on, not as often as it has been when the flight rate has dropped to up to 50 to 4700% in the wintertime. Of course, it is difficult to rely on such a means of transportation. It's just not acceptable, and I must let myself, even though I'm living here, say that for the people in the West too. This cannot be offered to the Westerners. We can talk about it, take the first step, finish it. This plagianity proposal that will be used to map the problem. I mean, the highest. A travel minister might also decide it just on his own with a transport plan, just to look for a longer time and decide for himself, but we don't want to wait too long to handle this situation here. This matter must continue to be pressed no matter how we do it. Various people here are not necessarily very pleasant to the European Union, but the European Union sets the number of landing rates by 90%. I think I'm pretty sure that's what it is about flying security in a suit. This is a natural requirement for our community here, trusting and supporting. Let's do this well, careful, put more demands on Istavia, let's make it more than just a Cheflavour airport. Let's put the company in a new tenant policy, go to analysis, maping, looking at which airport location is best in the west so that we can build up a way that increases the safety of the people, whether health security or other security in that community. This can be done by examining the likeability of existing airports. Therefore, I restate on the fact that we at Reunion support this proposal for Congress and hope that the members of the Environment and Transport Committee won't stay too long. There are a lot of evidence, and therefore I encourage it to go very much over this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u29	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a local screening proposal for a new airfield at Westland. She is fine in the much discussion that is taking place right now, and I was present during a district week. There, transportation was the main source. Transport is, as I have so often said, a foundation for society's well-being. They are the basis for building a strong and powerful society. If transportation is not well, then there is little point in talking about anything else, a strong health system, education systems, etc. or increasing job areas. The suggestion is a good help in this. At the suggestion, there is no reason. Councilmen of the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, members of the Northwestern district, find it to be the most excellent initiative in their lives. They take a good look at the situation and suggest that local selection will take into account increasing tourism, increased food production, and the need for transport, both in the country and in the outside. The study will consist of long-term weather measurements and evaluation of natural conditions. It then shows that the cost of transport will be evaluated with the needs of the quarter when a tunnel and road construction have been established for the north and south of the West as one sector of employment and habitat. It is of utmost importance that we look at the matter from that point of view and that I can agree with the movers that we are building areas to strengthen the population and that these areas need to have good connections. The report notes that the proposal is submitted to encourage air travel on the West. There's a couple of airports at the Westfjords. I had the privilege of visiting all over the country as director of the transport Council, inspecting airports and transportation edifices, having conversations and consultations with local and national representatives and various institutions. Like any other area, we traveled through the West. We were caught up, we went on a beautiful day, it was bright and beautiful and good, which is not always the case with our good country. Like the Westerners, beauty in good weather and light often cross dark falls and great winds, and no doubt complicated the setting of airports. I don't know how. The structure of the airports and the design of the airports are considered finely. Says three larger airports were fixed to the main urban core, i.e. The United States of Iceland, the Parliament, and the Patrekjörður, as well as the local setting, depends on geographic conditions and the ability to produce and agriculture at the time of the construction. That's how things happen to us sometimes. Such factors could not be taken into account, such as weather, wind, and blind flying, as is true of the first - century event. They are often unable to do so by misdeeds, such as claims themselves, from the high mountains, and from the narrow valleys and the tides. Yet, things have changed in recent decades, and thankfully, we are taking steps forward. What has happened in the history of the present government has been greatly improved by transport, and the climate is also under special emphasis in a transport program adopted for the last week. The Westerners were given a priority, some 35 billion in transportation. I think everyone agrees around the country that there is a tremendous urgency to improve the situation there and all transport. The report reviews the use and use of airports available today. In most places, the mountains, the weather, and conditions are narrow and difficult to land, and often cannot, as I came to know before and before. Senators have crossed before me. That's why I wonder, saying that I'm not an expert on flying: Is this a realistic option? Is it realistic to plan to put down more airports? Would it be more realistic if we were to make transportation and to increase our number of travel efforts to put more emphasis on and to put more weight on fixing the road faster? How about we drill holes through more mountains? Yeah, I think we should. I'm not saying we shouldn't stress the flight. In so many respects, our flight is vital. We know what is happening in remote places and far away from world headquarters, where the greatest service, the complex health care, is that it is extremely important to use medical flights. It's saved a lot of people. I thought it was a good idea. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, 11th. We're out of here. "Speaking of earlier, if trips were more frequent, the patient would be relieved of a medical flight. I find it logical to conclude that if travel is more frequent, it is slow and in time to intervene and send people on a more complex procedure or to another care and management program than it is offered in the province. Still, we have to watch that we are making use of the airports and airports. Because, for reasons we all know, less of the time we put on transportation, one of the landing sites has been released because they have not received normal maintenance and care. They have failed to meet security standards, so a file fell out of existence. This makes me think about the future. I don't think it's time to think about it, but I still want us to keep it up. It's very important that we have as many landing sites on this country. It will come, for example. Entering tourism. You can then travel with smaller groups of less machinery or with any other type of activity. You can take a day trip flying to the West, and then back to the West. There are lots of possibilities we need to be open to. But it is imperative that we keep the security factor across and around and at all times, as is the case in a new, released transport program. When discussing transportation, we need to keep it at the top of a magazine. It's very urgent to increase the security of the West. And if this is the way to do that, I'm more than ready to support that proposal. I think it's wise what the proposal says, by permission of a president: ▪ In view of experience and Icelandic flight history, it is hardly wise to give money to action unless modern requirements for flight and flight can be met, as well as the demand for safety and prevention. When choosing the location of the airport, such an option must always be expected. Over the years, flights at the West have been under difficult conditions. The conditions for traditional international airports that meet all the requirements for management may be difficult to deal with inland weather, and it is suggested that conditions be carefully investigated and options be set up in those materials. This makes me feel very wise to approach, to examine things before going further. Really, we should always be in such a process, and in some respects we are. We are considering possible projects into the future and how we will do so. The government has stressed that the arrangements for flight management will be changed, that the international airports will all be under the hat of Istavia; with Keflavour airports will be Akureyri, Reykjavík, and Egil places. The plans for business will be changed and more money will be available to us. I find this proposal of full interest and will be eager to monitor its progress at the council and in the process here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u30	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a local screening proposal for a new airport at the Westlands, where carriers are low. People of the assembly, Guðjón the son of Brjánsson Bruján, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Halla Kristjánsdóttir, the daughter of Christiann, all at once. Councilmen from the Northwestern district. I come straight from the airport into this discussion. I'm very happy that this proposal has come out, since it has been adopted by the Westerns and has observed very carefully there, has flown extensively through these airports, and is familiar with the circumstances very well. I must commend the paper. She's really good. She's really good at it. I'm just gonna run through a few points that show up in it. It is as it turns out, that the fields, which were up to 25 in their time, were laid and built wide throughout the West. It was depending on the availability of materials and where to build roads, such as fun runways in the Shugan Bay, and some interesting conditions, but they were never decent blind-flying airports. Since these fields needed visual signalings, most of them were not making good use of them. That is why the next verse in the matter is how we can make sure that our flight into a gap if we find a good location for an airport on the West Coast. Truly, there has been much discussion over this in recent years, such as with Ishafjörður airports, where there are difficult conditions and small space. There, you need to enter your Skull fun and often in difficult circumstances. As shown in the report, the north side of the woods is suggested to make weather probes. What I would suggest in this case is that we Icelanders need to become members of the European Space Science Institute, ESA, and the EGNOOS satellite history. You see, I think the Westerners could make a lot of money if we got in with a drift, a satellite guide, over the West. Today we're gonna get this on the east side of the country. We can't take it all to the ground, but before a month ago, at the beginning of January, it was decided to fly to Húsavík, which is based on the satellite route. There's Akureyri, Eglish, Hornland. This easter part of the country needs to be examined, but the range does not cover the western side of the country. These are 26 satellites based on the Galileo system. We're just this way, when we were going to go into the 2008 NASA Institute, just before the collapse, we pulled back our application to get into it. At the same time, the Norwegians entered it, and now a satellite guide has been developed over all Norway. In recent years they have done so through the Arctic Council, put great emphasis on these matters, and over the past few years have been able to add a satellite guide to the system. It's got a lot to say, but we're a little bit behind, and this would benefit us from science and research and a lot of other developments in technology, the fourth industrial revolution and such things. Here again, in the case discussed here, what could be done much like on the Westland and only generally for safety in the country where we can set up an approach like that in the Marine Corps. The new helicopters will be equipped with such devices that could benefit from the satellite route. Then some security issues change in the community where the helicopters could move far and wide throughout the country where there is no flight today. Only satellites are upstairs, the flights are based on them, there is no equipment on the ground. This will be a much simpler process, and less expensive. That's kind of what I think is a big deal for Vestfjörður. If local choice was taken up, I would feel that it would be necessary to include in that discussion so that we could open up the matter. I've been talking about it here since I started at the Generals and told a long time before that we needed to get into the European Space Research Institute so that we could build on this technology. I haven't really looked at it with a Vestur or heard anything about what we could do with the Tingey Airport and Alphastone, considering that we had the satellite route. The flights will be completely different. It's possible to fly squares in corners and a different line between mountains and dollars and on the shores of the country. It would be very interesting, as if with the Thornies just getting it out in this context. Of course, we know that the Tingeys Airport is the best mountain range in the West, the Caldbak, and what is there. This would be the big thing I'd like to see added to this council resolution because I'm very impressed with the suggestion that this is going to be done well. I think this is really important - I'm so prepared for this discussion directly from the airport that I could e.g. the number of hospital flights on the West did not berth in recent years. I made a graphic document about it 2015, but I can just say I can't quite remember it. There are quite a few of them. All the most serious cases of the country go to Reykjavík, to the Hospital. The land hospital has 10% of the most serious cases in the country, whether it is serious heart attacks, heart problems, brain and neurosurgery, serious trauma, or premature babies. That's why we have to make sure that this is the best thing to do, so I think that the satellite tour is one of the things we need to take a good look at in this context. In terms of the size of airplanes, we speak of a 70 to 100 engine, I think, as the situation today, no matter what our future technology tells us, people should only examine average jets, 150 cute machines, what would have to happen in order to land such machines. Because of the freight transport that would be due to marine farming on the South Coast, there would have to be machines similar in size to those of a 150-sized international aircraft, a machine that will then be at least 1 50. that in this case, you may be able to carry some 1,6520 tons of fresh fish, salmon. Such carriers should then be available. When we are dealing with the airports, the ability of trains has often been missing. It is important in this case and how all of it is. Then there are tremendous opportunities in our tourism, and we need to see what possibilities there are. I don't think we're flying three, four, five-hour flights with 70 to 100 motors. I think that's a bit unrealistic. We'd have to look at bigger machines, and I guess we'd need to take a look at them in relation to the trajectory. This would likely require some 2,200,2200,500 feet [200,2500 m] of roads that we would be looking at in this proportion. So I take my heart to suggest that the three stations suggested in the motion make a good examination of the region's innovation rate. The absolute bioavailability rate is always the key to air traffic. I see time is getting shorter. I'd like to talk to you about the Faeroe Islands, about the satellite route. As a result, Atlantic Airways, the 5th airline, 2012 when using new machines, was adopted by a satellite guide. The Society may have had 90% use on the field, but at the time of the satellite tour, this is the latest news you're hearing about, the innovation of 99% at Wavigga Airport, a difficult airport, which is a good example of how important the satellite tour is and how to get it into this discussion. It has grown to such an extent that the SAS, the competitor, began to compete with Atlantic Airways in the Faeroe Islands during the winter, chose to go the same way and set up these equipment, their pilots to perform the same flights because the Society could never have any competition with the local community, Atlantic Airways, unless that was all right. This is an enormous and important factor in the overall context, and I think there's a huge amount of possibilities in this satellite account. That's what I'm most inclined to introduce to the proposal. Right at the end, I have to say, there has never been such a lot of air traffic done by the government or the Senate as it has been during the past two years. I just had a report, and I was in the lead for a group of people looking at the situation on Icelandic flights. They're working a flight date for Iceland. It's new. And the Government Treaty describes the shape of a owner's policy for Istavia. I have to get back to the speaker if I have any answers, I see time is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I must admit that I had not intended to address this point, but I think I have nothing especially to add. But already it is. A senator began discussing the European Institute of Space Science only woke me to life, for I have been very interested in our being involved in it. In October 2016, a Parliamentary decree came from the Piranha to hide foreign ministers from applying for the membership of the European Space Institute for NASA in Iceland, with a closer look at commitments associated with membership. I was curious about their situation shortly after I arrived at a council in the fall of 2016 and spoke with a representative of the Ministry who claimed to be pushing them. I also know that the Commissioner for the ESA arrived here in July 2017 and was interested in meeting with people from the government. I have to admit that. A senator is much better on flight than ever with me and what link it has to be made to a location selection at the Westland airport I don't realize, but I think it's a big interest in Iceland to become a member of that institution. I've been thinking more about it from innovation and technology, but I have no doubt that it can be from flying security as well as that. It might be nice to have the senator's view of those factors. And then I think we should unite in making this synonym come true in order for Iceland to become a member of the European NASA of Astronomy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u32	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. As I mentioned earlier, I'm an amateur with Europe's Space Institute and the language under which I hear it and, in particular, a satellite guide, which I believe is a huge deal for Iceland. This is much bigger than I think people in general realize and therefore use every opportunity to remind them of the importance of matters involved. I had a request just after starting a council on where these matters were in the administrative system and other matters. I wasn't very satisfied with the answer. It wasn't good enough. The problem with this may be some way in which three agencies are involved. We need to keep moving in the way we are going to solve it. I think there's a great deal of desire for us to become a member of the European NASA of Astronomy. But the matter goes down to some extent by the Ministry of State, by the Department of Transport and by the Ministry of State. It is the possession of property today, the letter, Istavia. Somehow we need to reach that conclusion. But this is the situation. There was also a lot of discussion about this at the Arctic Circle of it. A fall. There were seminars on that subject. I was overseas because of the NATO program so I couldn't get that discussion. But as I came in earlier, we are extremely important in many areas to get in there. I believe in the fourth industrial revolution, technology and science - I have held three, four conferences in the State Department on the issues involving the scientific community and various technology institutions in the country in an effort to promote this. At our last meeting, about 30 people were present, where the scientific community in Iceland had reached the table. This is interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u33	A respectable president. I'm going to speak fast. Every second is so precious in a pita. I welcome the debate on the European Space Agency and the possible involvement in Iceland into ESAs. During an ideal week, we went to Piratar, including To Húsavík. We looked at the local space collection and got a good introduction to it, its history, and its conduct from Örlygur Hnefill - Hnefill? I don't know how to bend the Hnefill. His name is Örlygur Örlygsson, who showed us the museum and told us about it. It was amazing. He traced Neil Armstrong to the country repeatedly when he was being trained by astronauts and showed us things he had, a sweater, and all kinds of things. It was really fun to get to the point of those things and the story, which is amazing. Men went to the moon 1969, but since then there has been advances in space science, and there have been a number of major challenges. I'm Örlygur we're being commended by the Pirates for putting in a pact of membership and saying a sin that the proposal had been taken back ten years ago. I've decided to direct that question to why. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, does not he feel that there is really a transnational support for this at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u34	President wants to point them out. A senator's supposed to be a relief Hnefli.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u35	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I believe that there is a transverse support for this matter during the council and that the importance of becoming part of the European Space Institute has been incorporated into more people. Even if we do not have a party, two and three, we may have a good cooperation. The process and its activities may take time. I think it's a little hidden, but there's a lot of importance. I gave a lecture on the subject at the surveyal museum in Húsavík in the fall, where this fine collection of Hnefill Fists son of Örlygsson is held each year. There was a number of foreign lecturers, and we discussed it. Then I thought it was a pretty good deal. I think we should hurry up and get an application started so we'll be successful. I also think it can have a lot of effect that we are at two systems, one of EGNOOS, the European part and the VAS in the United States. The North Atlantic, north, and beyond Greenland, has nothing to do with this. It's a job. It would take some sort of agreement between how to cross the Atlantic Ocean. But I think there's a lot of international interest in the case. This is also part of marine survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A positive and optimistic answer to Trausti's faithful Trausti Friðbertsson. It may be that while Piratar and I were in Húsavík, there was a meeting at the State Department with ESA. At least I heard it somewhere. I'm going to say something. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir on the connection to innovation and then on the other hand. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, not just of innovation, but of education as well. There is an enormous amount of education in this regard. It's all connected. As I understand it, the entry process is very long and very strict. It's kind of the longest entrance test in the world, and I think it'll take ten years to become a valid member of the relationship, and that's why they have a lot more reason to get going about it. There is much discussion about the fourth industrial revolution, and this could not be related to it better and more. Then there's a three-dimensional printing, but we agreed on a synonym. Spring of digital carpenters for all high school students. It's all connected. Like what? Friðbertsson It's a little hidden from us, and I'm sorry it's real, and the moon is there, and the planets, and we can do so much more as a nation in it than just admit it. I'm asking why. A senator's opinion that this might take a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u37	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. How long is this gonna take? I don't think it takes too long to bring the application. Of course we have to agree in here to shape policy. To me, this is to be part of the flight policy we're building right now, with groups of service, head of group, and three subsets, writing a report that has a flight policy on land and nation. This is one of the major projects I referred to earlier that have been brought forward by the current government. I allow myself to believe that we can produce a satellite guidance for use in Iceland in five or eight years. About six months ago, I talked about ten years ago. I've been trying to speed that up. A status scan for a new airfield on the Westfjords is just an example of how large this is because airport operations are about the new speed I mentioned earlier. We'll find nothing else to achieve better and more efficient use at the airports than this system. It's very safe. Worse, lower altitudes, which increase safety across the country, will be available in smaller locations, in airports all over the country, for the National Guard and for the helicopters. This is the big picture. In five or eight years, I want it ready. I think there's a lot going on in the search and survival of the north in the seas and when there's a cruise order. There's so much going on. I think this is an example of something we can't know where we'll end up if we get it on. I think research, science, and others would benefit greatly if it was accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u38	Mr. President. I felt that I was -- I'm not going to say undesirable - but I thought it was important to come up and celebrate a suggestion. paritaprevir Brjánsson S., Haraldur's son of Benediktsson, and Halla SiglejanSigný Kristjánsdóttir, who is hopefully just the first step in ensuring a safe and secure airport on the West. It is not only that he would be safer and more stable; it is also a matter of such progressive development for the area that, unfortunately, has been too long, both in the air and in the country, referring to demonic transportation, just to be clearly stated. As the report shows, there are also great opportunities to obtain a new airport. You can, for example, do so. Also, it is not the same with increasing salmon farming on the Westlands that might open the way for you to fly the fish directly instead of moving it ashore, thus reducing the pressure on the roads. But most important, and probably just most important, this is the opportunity to ensure improved and safer service to the inhabitants who rely heavily on the flight, as air transport is actually their public transport. While you may be able to fly a skyrocket and in Skull, you can always fly a visual plane, but I thought when I was preparing this talk that it was also a very slight regret of flying in the Skull Show and into the Deep. I especially remember one flight where I flew with a little stranger to fly with, and there was an unusually intense pressure in the Deep, and I've never been so happy to fly with a baby because I had my heart in my stomach while the baby cried out: "Vuhoo! We're in the roller coaster! That helped a lot. But the fact is that flights to Skull are sometimes difficult, and not just due to weather but also due to exposure, especially during wintertime, which are difficult to fly e.g. over the winter, except for a window of three to four hours. And only when it's not boring. This is an enormous amount of security, and as has been achieved by more dogs. Similarly, members of the council are an enormously important factor for emergency flights, the rescue workers, etc. That's why I feel that this is so important to me. I'd like to mention only that as a dog. Þórunn In regard to the practicality of examining the construction of a new airport or an landing site on the West, the Egilsdóttir of Eglún came in. I'd like to remind you that land and air transport are not meant to be either. It should not be excluded from each other but should be looked for safe, air or land. But I'm not gonna say anything. I got it. I got it. Councilmen on the Environment and Transport Committee to work the situation fast and safely. This is not to decide to build a new airport but simply to take the first step and study its practicality, taking the first step in evaluating the possibility. I don't think taking it will hurt anybody to take it, though, surely I hope in my heart that this will only be the first step of many, and soon we'll see a new airport on the West Coast.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved. I'm not too optimistic, and I have to say that I don't think we'll see a new airport on the West soon. I may be too buried and not as loud in clouds as my associates who have discussed these matters. Of course, I do not object to taking a local look at the ideas of a new airport airport in the West, whether they are talking about north or south of the West. I think it's a reason to look at the way things are today. Something that could possibly happen after 20 years or even more after a while, I feel that it is not time for men to pull their feet off to build up what we have today. We've got four airports at the West, at Gjörg, Isafjörður, Thesterial, and Burgundy Valley. Sadly, their maintenance has not been good. For example, the plan is at the airport at Isafjordur, which is, of course, the biggest airport, usually a piece of dirt, not crushed. It's been 60 years since that place was built up. [[Take it up in the parking lot.]] The parking lot. Over 60 years of age, all governments that have been this time have not yet been able to spend enough money together on this blessed plan. That's embarrassing. You may not be able to say that one thing is damaging to another than a local check could cost 20 to 30 million. I thought they had a lot of money to spend on this plan. Of course, it is important to have a vision of the future and to consider all possibilities with regard to the possibility of an airport with blind flights, international flights, support for employment and tourism, and everything we want to see for the future on the West, as well as in other parts of the country. Three years ago, I asked a question about the Þingeys Airport as a spare airport for Icefjörður because I felt that there was no interest in maintaining that airport as a spare airport. Much money has been spent building it up, and it has been possible to fly onto that field in that direction when Isafjörður cannot be picked up. At one point, damage at the airport, freezing elevators occurred on the runway in 2013, causing it to be incorrigibly unacceptable and having had to spend some money to fix it. However, it was never made of any sense, so machines could not land there unless they were very light enough to be used in that airport by a lack of energy and to be drawn together in quite a few years. I don't know if he was pretty used last year, I don't have the latest information about it. I feel very bad about infrastructure, as has been done in the West, that my investments are not new. I feel that we, who speak of improved transport and powerful air, land, and sea transport have to be fixed as much of what is needed to be done, rather than focus on the possibility that in the coming future a new airport on the West could be built that could serve international flights, blind flights, and all that is required for flying bigger machines, for the whole year, and perhaps more weather conditions than today. This is a good prospect for the future, but with this talk, which may seem rather conservative and negative, I remind them of the reality that the Westerners enjoy today. Even though we senators often fly higher clouds, have a basis for optimism, and look for ways to do anything in the Western world, we must also look at reality as it is, and join together in trying to raise the resources needed to make up for the living on the winter coasts today, whether they are Ishafjörður Airports, the Tiger Airport, or the Gigurants Airport. Yet, much good things are being done about the flight, as it were. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson. I hope that the Scottish route will become a reality and that the flight will be viewed as public transportation. I also put my hopes in the formation of Istavia's operation, where I may be set free of funds to build a smaller airport around the country, a special society of the large airports that are present today, and that international flights will be trusted. This could mean that there would be an ever - increasing amount of money in the smaller airports around the country. It is an enormous interest in the entire country that effective air transport can be provided, not just for tourists, but also for the inhabitants of that area. That chain is not to be broken, and we are to protect it. What governments and members of Congress are working on in these matters, I believe I am on the right track and I am exemplary. Of course, I will not lie against this council-sounding proposal for a local screening for a new airport at the Westland because I know that the senators who make the proposal do so with good intentions alone and want to see what possibilities are at hand. We need to be alert to the possibilities we have but not to forget today's situation in these matters, not to forget what we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u40	President. I've got blood for the duty that's a special flyer. We've listened here to several members of the council, whom I'd like to call Air Parliament, speak with intense experience, and, of course, I'm referring to the local council members who live in the West, on the north side of the country, and in the north, use flights immensely and have this experience. But anyway, I'm sure, if you've been tracking the development of your flight, both your navigation techniques, what's going on in energy exchange for air traffic and various developments in flights, we can talk about the machines, even the airships and other things, that, in the future, are going to be much more about flying than we're getting used to today. This is simply because time is precious and flight becomes increasingly safe and will likely be less expensive over time. Very likely, we will see a completely different situation after 30, 40, 50 years, but we are now getting used to it. I would like to find out what has only been spoken about here that are the changes that the transport program brings on the flying issues. When Istavia is now required to cost the country's backup airport, it will be with services that will result in substantial pay. What follows is simply that these three airports, in turn, will be improved, and the flight security will be increased to more than that. However, there is a subjugation effect that has only been introduced by humans. The money that is now placed in e.g. is in a way released. It can be carried to airports like those that are widely used today, the base of the country, whether in Húsavík, or in Isavour, the Western Islands, or whatever. And other airports get their share too. So there will be considerable development, improvement, and improvement in the entire air system, even the airports that are used solely for flying lessons. We must not forget that flight training in Iceland is a major factor. I'd like to make this clear as an explanation, reminding you that this is an approved transport program. This does not refer to the implementation of taxpayers or such. This refers to a transport program adopted in this situation. This is so, of course, the ideologies of public transportation, flights as public transportation, subsidies, and other things that I consider to be self-sustained community service, like many other subsidies. I used to give a talk earlier today about garbage matters that are essentially subsidized services with society. It is just the same with transportation, either land, air, or sea, that makes the whole country more or less inhabited. I would like to conclude that we, on the Environment and Transport Committee, will accept this proposal very well -- I think it is completely transpolitic - and make sure that she receives a worthy political treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u41	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorof, no. 95/2000, with subsequent changes. Artists are down. Councilmen Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigurður Sigmundsson Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. After Section V of the Law, there's a new chapter, chapter V. A., birth strength due to adoption, with two new articles, 17. a and 17th pars. b, along with headlines. The first headline is this: A mother's birth strength, which gives birth to her child for adoption. A mother who gives her child birth to adopt at the time of birth, the required conditions for adoption, deserves birth strength for six months from the birth of her baby. The mother's birth concentration due to adoption should be 135,525 k. per month. The mother should have a legal home in this country at the birth of a child and have had a legal home here in the country in the last 12 months before that time. If a mother had a legal home in this country at least At any time during the last month before the birth of a child, the labour agency, to the extent necessary, should take into account the mother's period in another Member State, the European Economic Area, the Northern Community Convention on Public Security, the European Free Trade Association or a contract between the Governments of Iceland and the Denmark and the Home Governments of the Faeroe Islands, when evaluating whether a mother will satisfy a legal condition according to 2 mg. if she had remained faithful at the same time in that state, and not more than a month has passed since the completion of the insurance period under the law of that Kingdom. A mother should leave the required period of residence and insurance proof in another state in accordance with the terms of the contract, with the application for pay. In view of the development of pay, prices, and economics, a review of the budget is made on the budget each year. However, a minister of government approval is permitted to change the budget to an increase if there are significant changes in pay development and national interests from financial contributions. When the above conditions result in an increase in the amount of birth volume, a minister should change the amount of money into the Regulation. The second headline is this: An application to the labour oce. The mother should, as it were, be it 1 mgr. 17th par. a, regularly apply for birth strength as a result of adoption to the labour agency three weeks before the expected date of the baby's birth. The secretary is permitted to issue in more detail the proposal for the payment of the labour oce. Mr. President. The purpose of this bill is especially twofold. First, there is an endeavor to open up the discussion of adoption within the country, that adoption can be a practical option in the event of an unwanted pregnancy. People's outlook on life differs from that of others. Some women simply do not tolerate abortion, whether for religious reasons or for others, but they cannot care for the child. Another situation is that a woman may not discover pregnancy until it is too late for pregnancy, and then abortion is not an option. Second, the purpose of the bill is to support those women who decide to give their child birth to adopt them financially, but so far they have not been helped by the government. Here, adopted children and their adopted parents are well cared for. According to Article 7, marriage parents are encouraged to make a birth - torn home to get to know and care for their child. Law on birth and parent'sorof, No. 95/2000. We also take care of couples after miscarriages and stillbirths. According to Article 12. the previously mentioned songs for the loss of an unborn baby after 18 weeks of pregnancy are for delivery. However, the discussion of the well - being and needs of women who give birth to a child to adopt the country. They have no right or financial support. I feel the need to meet the many physical and mental expenses of the pregnant woman. The cost of mental - health services, exercise, and physical therapy is considered to mention just one thing. In this regard, it should be noted that in Denmark, birth parents have the right to adopt their child to vacations and combustures at birth vacations for 14 weeks from the birth of the baby. In the United States, a mother gives her child a number of practical assistance. It is different from the state of the country, and may include direct financial support, paying all medical expenses, during pregnancy and for a certain period of time after birth, all legal expenses are paid for adoption, all advice services such as psychologist service, free of charge, and offered all day to the woman, as well as for some intensities of living, such as rents, travel expenses, and purchases. Therefore, it is clear from the above that in the United States, women who give birth to their offspring for adoption are generally well - cared for and may we take these nations as a pattern in this regard. According to Icelandic adoption, about 50 couples are now waiting to adopt a child and are increasing each year. From abroad, there are a long, costly, and difficult process. Last year, only six children were adopted abroad, and the number of international adoptions has decreased. In recent years, on average one Icelandic child has been adopted here on the country. Adoption has been described in the following words, with the permission of a president: ▪ When I held this child in my arms, and it was my child that I was to take care of and support them, I realized that I had now gained a new purpose for my being on earth and had a new relationship with mankind. The rest of them was just as concerned to me as I was connected with the human race deep within myself. This was written by Andri Thorsson, who wrote it today. In 1999, for example, a senator, a birthday edition of the Icelandic adoption. The title was a good deed and a good deed. This beautiful text of the writer captures the strong emotions behind the marvelous gift of bringing a child into the hands and becoming a parent. Mr. President. Today, the birth of a child is essentially a protection form for the child. Adoption is a way to ensure that a child who has no family will be able to care for the possibility of growing up in a family that has the circumstances to provide good arrangements and training according to the child's needs. A report published by the Hrefna's daughter Friðriksdóttir, who worked for the Ministry of Internal Affairs a few years ago on adoption in Iceland, points out that Iceland is an authority in the limited structure of the adoption system, primarily in the context of the number, education and expertise of professionals who have roles in adoptions and the scope of the work being carried out. The report also shows that it is important to be alert to the pressures of adoption usually brings to the parents'parents. In a study conducted in the North countries, it appears that the onset of depression appears to be e.g. To the extent that depression occurs after birth, it occurs. It has also been noted that additional pressures that may be carried out, such as due to infertility, possibly non-compliant grief, high expectations and uncertainty, and an assessment of parental ability and other steps in the adoption process. In 2006 the results of a study of the health and well - being of adopted children in Iceland were published. The study was conducted by the Children's Youth Department of the Land Hospital in cooperation with the School of Psychology for the University of Iceland and Icelandic adoption. The objective was to enhance the understanding of the general well - being of adopted children and their circumstances, informing them whether adopted children and ideal parents would receive the appropriate service. Mr. President. It is evident, therefore, that, according to what I have mentioned here, the policy and implementation of adoption has been emphasised on introducing the subject of child's interests and their adopted parents. As mentioned earlier, the discussion of the well - being and needs of women who give birth to a child in the country has not been addressed. It's important to make things right, and this bill is part of it. To say that, I refer the case to what it says. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u42	President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the difference between the idea in the bill he puts forth and e.g. A local tunnel. How can he tell the difference? This is likely to involve women in a very delicate position and difficult social situations that want to give their child - why. A senator speaks of giving a child as a wonderful gift. The gift is the most important word, and I ask: What kind of motivation is being created, incentives for women who are even in a very difficult situation and who have to make very difficult decisions when offering money for it, when it is being mixed up with money, to give away the child? [[The president calls.]] Is it not similar to a surrogate? If I didn't, I'd be happy to hear what. A senator describes the difference in his mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen counter. First, I want to make it clear that there's not even money here. It's being backed up by women who haven't been supported by the government in situations that are certainly difficult, I don't detract from it at all. They are being enabled to seek help. As I mentioned in the preceding talk, there may be many reasons why a woman who has an unwanted pregnancy cannot imagine having an abortion, wanting to give birth but unable to have a baby, as I mentioned in the talk. [[The president calls.]] To meet these costs, strength is primarily thought to be involved. I can cut into the standard conversation in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u44	The president asks why. The members of the council, please, show respect for the counter-resurrection period.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u45	President. I can understand that, and I can imagine that. A senator means well when he proposes this. It is a real desire to help women who make the difficult decision to give up a child. I don't think it's dangerous, though. Has a what? A senator, e.g. Ask yourself: " Is it possible for me to see women who are in some kind of distress and in a very difficult social situation, to be in a more sensitive position, possibly there to be paid to have a child, and to give it away? Isn't this a bit careful approach? I'm really asking who. A senator would have wondered about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. By the 14th paragraph. Adoptions are material gains, so to speak, and why. A senator was undoubtedly hinting at that, forbidden. Besides, it's forbidden by the Hague deal we're on. Furthermore, the amount of power is not dependent on it. I think most of them see it. In my opinion, it's just absurd that women in this country are going to make it money. I'm not going to have any Icelandic women get involved in that kind of operation. Hv. A senator mentioned the difference between local passage and the idea of this bill. He is great, and we know that there is a danger of being economically intended, but this bill is entirely different; it is simply a matter of strengthening women in difficult circumstances to seek help in various ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u47	Mr. President. I'd like to look for some position. For example, when it comes to births and breaks of pregnancy, or the abortion, a member of the council for a certain opinion. A senator mentions it. First of all, I wanted to ask you what. A senator about this bill, but also in general, just whether or not. A senator feels normal that women wishing to be pregnant will be obliged to accept advice from a social worker, which includes: This strategy is presented to them. Second, I'd like to ask what. A member of Congress whether he generally feels that women who are unable to bear, or who have a child, are not, but are still pregnant, should carry it and give it to other people or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the counter-sponsore. As I mentioned in the talk earlier, the purpose of this bill is twofold, including opening up the discussion on adoption. I think it's important that we do. We know that the subject of adoption has been a shy subject in Iceland, i.e. National adoption, and I hope that in the future there will be a certain change of viewpoint. We know that in years past, national adoptions were much more common and, of course, social situations. The resources available today are not the same, i.e. abortion was not then, but most of all I wanted to draw attention to these options. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u49	Mr. President. I feel compelled to repeat the question because I realize it as fast as possible. In his talk, a senator said, but I am looking for his position in these two basic questions. We're having another bill at the same time, and we can put this case in context of that, the pregnancy breaker bill. This bill is submitted at the same time, so I'd like to repeat the question anyway. A senator feels that if women wish to have a pregnancy break, they should be obliged to be educated, including the option of giving birth to a child for adoption. Is it convincing? A senator that women who are unable to have a baby but who are still pregnant should take the child more seriously than wear a pregnancy break? If I have exactly five seconds left, I'd like to ask what. The senator's reason for believing that no woman was available to bring this bill with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to first say about the last question that I'm very surprised that no woman ever wanted to be with me on this bill because it's a good option for women in this situation. Let us see that in Denmark this is an option. A woman who gives birth to her child in Denmark receives a 14 - week - old baby's ordinary, which has given me a great deal of experience, so I'm surprised that women don't want to be on that bill. Let them now see that there's some good advice here for women. About a woman who's pregnant - I understood why. So a senator wondered if that woman would be forced to take advantage of this arrangement. That's certainly not the case with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u51	...forced to be educated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u52	Yes, I've been following today's law that this information is there, and I'm sorry it's not part of a pregnancy crisis bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u53	A respectable president. Here's this bill for a song brought by nine men. The only woman on the bill ran away right after I got my first copy, and it was reprinted. It's just fine. Somehow I feel that it's being a catalyst for a surrogate artery, and I think it's very sensitive. We're talking about a woman looking at her child in the grave getting only two or three months in a maternity room. Why should we go ahead of it? Then we watch, for example. Now on the bill, we're going to pay the price of psychotherapy. Rather, should we not go this way, for these women are naturally entitled to receive their full support? Rather, should we not make a safer frame around it? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council and rejoice that she believes that women in this situation are entitled to support. Then I expect. A senator supports the bill. As I told you earlier, this is an option that matters so much to these women, and I don't see any difference between them and those parents who face the terrible conditions of having a dead baby. Both groups should be supported and maternity broken. I see no sense in the fact that a woman who gives her child for adoption will not have that strength, for both individuals involved are having trouble and need support in my mind. As I say, it's primarily about this support that is in my mind very important, and that's why the bill is played by men. [[The president calls.]] If anyone feels that it is inappropriate, likely it would be for the women who support the bill in a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u55	A respectable president. We're talking about a good strength. We're talking about 800,000, which this makes a total, and I think it's important that we build a basis in a different way than this to support women who make the decisions they have to make. Other countries, such as the United States, are viewed on television the other day as bringing back children. We don't want to go there. Counts 'em out. The senator did not need another way to strengthen women, whether in this situation or in other matters of pregnancy and birth, that we may open up other ways to strengthen these women?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Only in terms of the strength and the amount, of course, can it be considered within the Committee whether it is a reason to move this down to perhaps four months or less, as in Denmark. To me, there is nothing wrong with an examination within the committee. The actual amount is the same as the student's received in a month's or so, and it can be considered within the committee. I am open to other ways of strengthening women in this situation and in all the ways that can be done. It'd be nice to have ideas from what happened. A senator on this matter. The basis is that these women are at the same level as other women when it comes to maternity payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u57	Mr. President. I have to admit that I feel that I am here a strange way to support women in self - determination about their own health. Somehow I don't see how this is the way men fall because I see it as nothing more than a certain danger of creating a situation where women can be bought with children, women with them usually in difficult circumstances, and, much more often, in some other social way. All I want to do is ask the senator to ask me if he would have thought into the moral accelerator that was created there by this method.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad that a man's husband is involved in this discussion. I'd like to say what I told you earlier that I'm not a moral, like a dilly. A senator put it, in this. I'm just putting aside what I said earlier, and I'm totally rejecting the ideas of buying women, and I just don't feel that it's part of the discussion. First of all, as I mentioned earlier, it is illegal to do so by law, and I think it is absurd to expect any Icelandic woman to do so. I see no reason to answer this in any other way. This is an important factor. A medical authority knows that it is very important to be able to seek help like psychological assistance, etc. [[The president calls.]] This is a part of their helping them to do so by providing them with funds to pay for such service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u59	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm not entirely convinced of the facts. I've watched very closely the discussion of surrogateism over the years. The warning spells that rose in this discussion of all volleyballes all over this bill, and I'm asking the carriers of this bill to consider at least... And like it, because I expect this case to happen. The welfare committee, to the members of the committee, took a special look at the matter, since we simply cannot allow ourselves to make decisions on the grounds that we could be putting women at risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who is happy to hear it. It is important that this should be carefully examined within the committee. I encourage the committee to do so here and now to examine Dana's experience in this regard. What is suggested in the bill is no reputed statement, this is being done in Denmark, and it has proved to be a blessing to support such financial support for women who give their child for adoption. I strongly encourage the committee to see what the experience of this is in Denmark. Because of what? In addition, I would like to correct what I said earlier, that the amount of money presented here is in my opinion by no means contribute to any financial gain. I think they're all what they are. Senators who have participated in this discussion I thank for must agree with me on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u61	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion, and I agree with the comments of the biller Þórarinsson, the son of Thorrin, that it has been perfunctory and just deep. It's fun when we make it in this room. I have things to do with this bill, but I also have things to say in support of it. I'm gonna start with the positive, bring the good news first. I think this really is something that should have been taken before quite a long time ago that's coming into it as a member of my team, huh? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, came in. It's the timing that makes this a little bit bad, and I think that's a little bit of a reason why women haven't moved into the matter. About the link to local transportation and the discussion that has been two things I would like to say. Perhaps it is a little obvious and set up that there is no point in linking this together and in many respects in logical ways. On the other hand, I would like to say that the tone of local passage that has been in these discussions has been somewhat judgmental and negative. I am the daughter of an obstetrician and a drink - fertilization doctor, and I have many things to say about seditization and such things because when I was growing up, there was much talk at home about the terrible sorrow they feel when they cannot have their own children. There are many health problems, and it is medical for you not to walk with your own child. We lived in Britain, and Father was there a doctor. There's a surrogate barrier where I best know legal and allowed. However, there are regulations around her that I'm not going to pretend to know exactly which are exactly, but it reminds me that there are all kinds of things that I'm trying to deal with. Take it, for example. Sisters, there are times when commuting is no more than a person helping a sibling. I'm not gonna get stuck in this, though. Since this was evident, it is often in families, but there is also some kind of payment, strength, to them women too because they are going through the whole process. There's nothing to buy and sell children between families. This is a second period. I'm going back to the bill. In my report, I thought the first part was very nice and nice. In the second part, it is set in comparison to pregnancy, and I also see that the term abortion is used, which may have become a bit ancient in this context. It is usually a break in pregnancy and a pregnancy has to be completed, not an abortion. Pregnancy breach is a much more accurate word for it, and I just think it's a very positive thing that the language is taking root. In the second part of the report, this is arranged together again, perhaps setting up red flags that make not many women on this bill. The only one on it or on it. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir reports a last - minute danger. It's a heat matter. I think I'm quite qualified to express myself on this bill, so the content of it is because I have four children of whom I have conceived and thought about. I was very young when I had my first child, and it wasn't exactly planned. Without my planning to solve the discussion, I was faced with a considerable social situation at the age of 18 and saw the need to become a parent within a year. I did, however, and now my boy is 18 years old, so I have three daughters of different ages. Again, I want to call attention to the second part of the report. As I say, from four times I've had experience carrying children all the way, giving birth to them. To compare it with the most unusual medical process of pregnancy rupture. It's so physical that it can't be described, and I don't think that the majority of women who have walked with a child know how much pressure it is to do this thing, mentally and physically in every possible way and even to people around the mother. It's not just a man or a woman herself, it's really the whole environment. This can affect job opportunities, job and study ability, social issues, etc. This is intense pressure, no matter how you look at it, and then these blessed children must be brought into the world somehow. There are two ways, and both are physically demanding, to say the least. It's a long time to recover from such things, whether it's a natural birth - I've often put one on the list as normal births as the other is unnatural. It is both equally natural to bring a healthy child into the world, not the way it was done, but just the way it was done. I would have liked to see this bill a long time ago, and it would have been out of the question in my mind, a respectable president, that the bill's carrier means nothing but good in this context. I think he speaks beautifully of women who are in this situation and with understanding and concern for their well - being. And a good sign, I think it's okay to count it. paritaprevir To get it done, Birgir's Þórarinsson gave a very strong speech about the # I like the revolution, #metoo, the other day. I think it's all right to point out only the man who is representing this case and maybe pay attention to this. We all know that there are children, and surely even those without children, that nothing is more delicate in life than what is about your children. There's no sacred thing at least That's how it is in my life. That is why, both in all the treatments of this matter and in the other cases that have been involved in breaking a pregnancy, I want to direct it to a controversy of the United States to realize that everything that has to do with your children, everything that has to do with their coming into the world and health, is very sensitive. I urge everyone to speak respectfully and tactfully of these and all these matters. It is our duty to work at the High Council to guard our words and try to keep the discussion from being turned up in the moods of the people, that it will not result in difficult, painful feelings in the community. I'm not going to keep it all any further, but it says that women's circumstances are very different. I like to see it there. I encourage people to remember that they differ greatly, and we usually have very limited access to them. Those of us who are employed here are not in a position to necessarily weigh or judge such matters. It's just meditation. I'm going to finish this now with a word that may not be heard too often: Be careful with the presence of the soul.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. It was emotional, illuminating, and very meaningful. I also thank you for the reason. A senator for good words to me. I'd like to say that it wasn't my intention to, as it were, perhaps to promote, women by linking the case with statistical information on abortion. This was primarily to call attention to these facts. As the situation is today, as I say, an average of only one Icelandic child a year adopted here in the country. I don't expect the numbers I put out primarily for information to change a lot with this bill. I hope that the bill and the discussion that has been successful here will open up the discussion on the adoption of Icelandic children and become more open and positive than it has ever been. Hv. A senator rightly mentioned the tremendous pressures women face when it comes to abortions or those associated with births, still births, etc. [[The president calls.]] It also exists in women who want to have a child adopted but cannot for some reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Just as the lord of the Birgir of Þórarinsson humbly answers and kindly, so I want to reiterate this as a boy. A senator came on at the end, that indeed there is no difference between physical and mental, I think, for women. So, as I noted, I follow that it is accepted in the very law and that it is cherished by women following such a decision and change in their lives. There's another point. A senator came on about - unpleasant when you can't remember like this. No, I'm sorry I'm stolen. I have to try to remember it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again. As we know and see, it's an emotional discussion, and I won't slow it down. Then, at times, people say things they may not remember exactly at that point. Thank you. A senator for her approach to the matter in a professional and emotional way. That's the best part. It's an emotional matter, and I'm not gonna detract from it at all. I finally want to take this opportunity and wish to go. The welfare committee examined this matter from all sides, examined the project as it is in Denmark, and has given good results, as I have mentioned here, to back up women who give their children for adoption in Denmark. I don't see any reason why we can do the same thing here. It is important to me that we understand what I've said here and is natural, as I mentioned, the main purpose of this bill, that there are women out there who are certainly few but who really need this help. If any of them are wrong. Because of the statistical information I had regarding abortion, pregnancy breakers, members of the council have become alienated from this issue. Senators to overlook that. It was like I'm just saying information, and I'm looking into it in a positive way. [[The president calls.]] It is very important in my mind that we open this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for this answer. I now remember what I was going to do before, just because I agree that it's a good thing to open up this discussion in society and society. There's been a taboo around these cases, and that's not good for society. Nor is it good for children who later learn that they have been adopted. Indeed, it is healthy if society can talk about this on positive terms and without judgmental and unprecedented judgments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u66	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill that I don't feel can be discussed without putting it in the context of things. The context of the section is in my mind the Central Class attitude toward the pregnancy crisis bill that is for the treatment of this council and its link to the current case, that women who walk with children and give them away at birth are open for up to six months. I ask and discuss this context, and it's not from loose air, but I watched very carefully and closely how I was doing. The members of the Central Party spoke to the 1st. the current treatment discontinuation factor. So I noticed any approach at least. Some members of the Middle Class and especially aggressive. The merchant of this proposal, my ass. paritaprevir A Birgir of Þórarinsson's son, and a what. paritaprevir Sæmundsson talked about this bill and put it in perspective in my mind. I'm going to give a quote. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, of the pregnancy break. I'll kill down the part that turns to this bill. Just before this chunk is. A senator who speaks of the baby's right to life asks what is the right of a mature embryo. That's what it says. A senator in his speech on pregnancy break, with permission of the president: ▪ Never forget that there is always the possibility of turning an unwanted pregnancy into a source of joy to those who cannot bear. Adoption is an advantage that is important in this situation. Support applies to women who decide to give their child at birth and the middle class has provided a bill of material, but women who give their child at birth have no government support. Hv. By permission of the president, a senator continues to respect the woman's voluntary right to make a decision about her own body to end the life of an unborn child. Whether a decision is made regarding birth defects, disease, or unwanted pregnancy, it is far from easy. Later in the talk, the comment continues. A senator believes that a woman can make an informed decision after counseling professionals. I couldn't help but say what. A senator named after his letter of transportation asked him if he felt that women who were pregnant and who did not want to have a child or walk with a child should still do so and give away the child, whether it was his view that it was what women should do rather than break their pregnancy. I didn't get the answer to that question, but I think it's very important to get an answer to that question in this context. I also asked why. A senator whether he felt that women should be obliged to receive counselling on their options, including those available to him. Also pregnancy breakes, whether to oblige all women who qualify for pregnancy break up in order to be instructed to give their child to adopt and to receive 130,000 K. six months after the end of the pregnancy. I got half the answer. Sounds like it. A senator wants women to have this interview. I heard that too during the debate by the Middle Class. I also hear what you're saying. Middle class members say that they feel that pregnancy must be extremely difficult for all women its uses, that the fetus has the right to life, and that it is right, I understand the language. Councilmen were right, and before the 22nd week of pregnancy, there would be a lot of pregnancy. paritaprevir Þórarinsson has mentioned that the fetus has grown to maturity and discussed the child's rights in this context. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson spoke extensively about his feelings for those who cannot have children. The reason I mention all of these things, all this background, is because I think certain dogs are running with the Middle Class. I don't feel that they can come completely clean, and they just say, "We're against women breaking up. We feel that they cannot make decisions about themselves and their bodies, and we feel that the child's right to childless parents is more important than the woman's self - determination. This they do not say out loud, but they speak of compassion for those who cannot have children, talking about the woman's self - determination by counseling professionals who should be spoken of the right of a child to life still in the womb and who is not considered viable outside the womb by specialists but is still known as a full - grown infant. A senator in the same air as he would discuss the right of a child, the right of an embryo to life, and at the same time, he speaks of the emotional decisions of women who have abortions. What do I mean, "poo-poo"? I mean, I like it. Councilmen may suggest that women should walk with children and give them more freely to those who want to have children. I just want to make it clear that we all have an inborn right to life, but we don't have the right to have children. He's not there. Not everyone can have children. I find it quite ugly to put pressure on even women who seek medical help to break their pregnancy so that they are obliged to talk to social workers who tell them that it is certainly possible for them to have a baby and to have a baby, and that they should think of all the people who cannot have children before they make the decisions they are likely to make when they go to health care professionals, to break their pregnancy, that they should also consider that they cannot have children. I have a bad taste in my mouth in this context. I find it important if a woman decides that she can't go to pregnancy, that it's not something that her conscience allows her to have some kind of support for her, but I don't see that it's the goal of this bill; it's so that the middle-class members are opposed to pregnancy break and want to find ways to let a woman walk with children that they don't want to go with and give them even a financial impulse to do that. The feeling I get is that women are some sort of hatchery machines, that they should consider the needs of any other person in the community because these other people desire to have children, that women should consider themselves at all serious financial motivations to stake their lives, turn them upside down, change their lifestyle completely for nine months, because they must not forget that they can make their unwanted pregnancy a source of joy for other people they do not know. If I didn't think that this exact thinking is behind, that women are not self-involved, they're going to take some kind of positive pregnancy loss decision, they're not trustworthy to make decisions about it themselves, I might be interested in supporting the bill, but unfortunately I don't think that's the motivation behind it. I'm sorry, but I don't think we're going to have a clear answer about the real survival of the Central Class for pregnancy and whether they feel that women should be more likely to have an abortion than to give birth to the children and whether they are pregnant or not. Perhaps it is because of this feeling that it is difficult to get women to take the matter through with difficulty. Councilmen. It could be, not that I know, but I myself can't imagine supporting the case in this form with reference to a number of abortions by all the speeches and comments that have fallen on the part of the pregnancy breaker. The members of the Central Party. I can't see that the only purpose of this bill is to support, apparently according to the bill's report, this one woman a year who decides to give his child for adoption.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir's fine speech. She quoted my talk about pregnancy breaking. I'd like to first correct what I said before, that's like a what. A member of the body stresss that women are being pressured into making the decision to give up their child for adoption. I completely disagree, that's not the point of this bill, and I've been through it in this discussion. In my speech, I said that there are many differences in people's viewpoints. Some women simply do not tolerate abortion, whether for religious reasons or for others. It's just that way. However, if they are not able to care for their child, there is an alternative that does not have any government support today. We support parents and mothers in other ways than those women have no support. I've been over it, and that's what it's all about. I expect people to separate the main points from the secondary issues in this regard. It's important to get counseling, to mention why. A senator earlier. I follow counseling because in many cases those who seek advice are trying to make a decision and in need of assistance. We know that the counseling given to women in this situation and wanting counseling is not to direct them in a specific course or to make a decision that is not acceptable to them. [[The president calls.]] It's important to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I didn't exactly explain a question in the counter, but I noticed that there was a question. A senator repeated that women were not pressured into walking with children whom they would not. I haven't heard from a word. A senator and has not read it out of this bill that somehow women could be forced to walk with children. However, I feel that I am putting an abnormal pressure on women in the context that I have mentioned. I kind of hoped that it would. A senator would be coming up to answer if. A senator feels that women should have a pregnancy break up if they do not want to walk with a child or if they feel that they are pregnant, or if they are pregnant as a result. A senator expresses such interest, in his view of a moral obligation to walk with the child and give it to people who want to have children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u69	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks me if it is a moral obligation for the women to wear the baby and then give it as adoption. This, of course, is the woman's decision. I'm not gonna slow it down. But so that I step into what I have mentioned here, the woman is under great pressure at this point, and I believe she should seek the help she can get to help her make a decision that is acceptable to her. I'm not following this new pregnancy bill myself. I don't think there's any reason to change the current abortion legislation, and I'm opposed to the pregnancy bill, so that's the case here. On the other hand, I would like to support the women we've talked about here who are in different situations, who are not interested in abortion or pregnancy break, who can't care for their child, but who need help, and that's what this is all about. Hv. A senator has associated it with a slight discussion of pregnancy break and what I said there. I'm holding what I said and I've declared it. In these subjects, however, I wish to do so and hope that the discussion of adoption will be somewhat higher than it has been and will not become the case mentioned in the discussion that is today. I think there's a lot of need for us to open up the discussion and hope that this bill will be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u70	Mr. President. Hv. A senator says that the decision is the woman, but it is not in the current law. This is not the woman's decision in the current law. This is the decision made by two members of the state. Hv. While a senator does not want to change that arrangement, he speaks of the decision as a woman. But I'll ask them, first why. A senator feels that he is the woman's decision, whether he feels that he is not also aware of the woman's decision to accept instruction, including her. about adoption. Or do adult women need to be instructed about themselves and their bodies and the resources available to them? It's what it is. A senator that women who choose not to go that way cannot read for their benefit?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u71	Mr. President. I still know what to say. A senator I thank for the speech had the same intolerance to the opinions of others, and I explained earlier at the council when an abortion was discussed. I wondered why this is, and I also wondered, because I remember the time when the Pirats were starting to set foot at the council and generally did not vote for anything, did not take sides in any matter, that they would like to say, "It's because we lack information to make informed decisions. I really appreciate it. But now it's sayin'. A senator that she prefers rather not that a woman who is pregnant and is faced with a difficult decision, which she has, in fact, told from this platform that is as hard as nothing - now I don't know if she has experience in it or not, but I do remember that she said to me, if I remember correctly, said in a talk later in that discussion, that I had nothing to do with this conversation because I didn't know this problem. Now I wondered, " Is Pirata's new direction that a discussion at the General Assembly is usually genderd? ' Then I wondered, " Is there anything that women should not participate in discussions about at the council, which is naturally far away, and I don't understand? ' I'd like to ask you what. In such situations, a woman who is confronted with the possibility of having a child under her belt or whether she wants to have it deleted is given advice that she is fully informed to make this big decision. I can't agree with that with what. A senator says that the decision that women are faced with is minor. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u72	Mr. President. My tolerance does not turn to what you think. Councilmen think what I think is the dishonesty I sense in the Middle Party's lawsuit that he does not treat the real Šmotivativaview in the back of the bill and that there's little to do with the much concern he has for the women whom the media feel they need more support and much more by making them opposed to pregnancy break and not to accept it accurately. Hv. One senator noted that I spoke of pregnancy breaking as difficult and drawing my personal experience into it too - which was particularly tasteful to me. I may have to adjust this comment, as well as comment. A senator says that I said that men, or rather, are men. A senator should not discuss this matter because he was a man. I asked why. A senator whether he felt that he had a prerogative to argue that the decision to break a pregnancy was burdensome for women. I didn't talk about any hard work or a good deal, or some ◯gay tour, such as the dog. A senator seems to be implying, but I asked. A senator what basis does he consider himself to be a man to insist that the decision to break a pregnancy is difficult for all women. I can see that I didn't like it, but I don't know what it was. Let's hope we get back to that in later answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u73	Mr. President. That may well be the problem. A senator finds it beneficial to try to make our Middle Class stand in this matter and the language discussed here in some way that was once hard to believe. I don't know why she can do that. You see, in the discussion of the second bill referred to here, my position, and it wasn't at all. A senator argues here that I declared that I was opposed to that bill. On the contrary, I did not. On the other hand, I made comments to the bill as such, thinking that of course I had the right to do so. What basis does the senator ask again? I have as a man to believe that this decision is difficult. I answered that question exactly at the time of my discussion because I said that I had seen what I had been doing, that this decision was burdensome to women. It may be as tasteless as asking why. A senator whether she is personally experienced in this same matter. It may well be. I didn't take it that way. However, I replied as best I could, making myself fully capable of doing so. As I said in this discussion, life has taught a lot of things. However, I ask again, What is the reason? A member of the council to question the comments made by the Middle Class and the rest of the matter? We have been perfectly honest in both of these matters. I'm sorry, but I just want a good explanation of what the senator believes is so dishonest in our language on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u74	Mr. President. The context that I'm trying to put this bill in and what I find dishonest in the presentation of the pros and cons. First, what has been reported is, to the point. A senator feels sorry for people who cannot have children and somehow wants to put them in the head of women who are considering pregnancy break - ups that they should consider all the poor people who cannot have children, a relationship that cannot Birgir. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children put this bill in their own letter about pregnancy breaking, the right of every child in the womb to life, and the happiness of children. I read that context in the middle of the question. Congress doesn't support the right of women to break up pregnancy, but they don't have the courage to say so and to be involved in the exercise of a dog bottle. Hv. A senator thinks that I don't taste good at him asking if I've had a pregnancy break. I'm asking why. A senator objects, " Do I make it a habit to ask someone else? ' Councilmen in their medical history, whether he feels that it is normal for them to ask if the person might have had a sterilization procedure or something like that, whether he or she feels defending or tasteful. Hv. A senator was wrong that I had said that he had no right to discuss this matter because he was a man. I corrected it, I told you. A senator would not have a basis to determine how every woman feels about having an abortion and whether it was difficult for them to do so, always for all women. I'll tell you what. A senator just - I told you just now. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u75	I said...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u76	No, but what? However, a senator spoke like that, and we are not in a conversation here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u77	A respectable president. We're going to discuss a full-scale bill to correct a change in the law on maternity and parentoroft. I find the discussion is becoming too much about another bill being discussed at the council, a pregnancy breaker bill. It is likely that this is the reason. Councilmen who submit this bill link these issues in the report. I'm going to tell you that when this bill came up at the council, I just kind of got mad. That was the least of it. I'm going to say, though, 1st transporter, w. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's daughter, gave a speech far better than the one with the bill. If so, it would have been desirable to conclude more about what the senator discussed in his talk. But I don't think these two cases are completely connected, except for the pregnancy and the birth of children. It has been mixed in the discussion of pregnancy breakes, just giving to adoption, and then a surrogate. To me, these three are completely offline, and one thing is not a substitute for another. The good news about this bill is that it made me examine the rights of mothers giving birth to their children. It seems to me that a tour of the law that they're not very good at, and I think there's a reason to look at it. We're here talking about maternity and a large part of maternity graffiti turns toward the rights of a child in the first few months to enjoy association with their parents. There is not the situation when a mother gives birth to a child, nor is there when the tragic event occurs when a woman gives birth to a stillborn child. Nevertheless, the rights of parents in that position are guaranteed in the law. I simply wondered if it would be wise to do so. The welfare committee, which receives this bill for consideration, agreed to put aside the bill and further considered a change in the law, which involves a legal adjustment for the women who give birth to a child for adoption. Like what? The speaker's presentation is part of a health problem. The body is affected by the birth of a baby, and it is normal for a woman to have some room for her baby regardless of whether she gives birth to or gives birth to the baby. That said, I feel that there's good reason to be examined, so I'm referring to it. The welfare committee is reviewing that position. I'm kind of sorry when we start messing up, that my knowledge is a discussion about these three cases, including a break in pregnancy, which is a very special discussion. In this chair, I have said that I support a bill available to the council on that subject. The rest of the matter is to ensure in some way that a mother's rights are in place, who decides to give to a child for adoption and then a surrogate. As a matter of fact, I'm in favor of surrogacy. That bill was submitted, and then it couldn't go any further. In fact, a church resolution proposal was introduced first, then called at work, followed by a bill on what included putting a frame around it. As I say, these three are completely unrelated and I think it's normal that the discussion is in a way that we're not mixing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u78	Mr. President. Listening to this discussion has been fascinating. I don't doubt that the purpose was good, I'm going to believe it, but when I read over both the bill and the report, I did not see this double purpose referred to earlier, but I saw the purpose of this bill that I don't think so, and it's the purpose to discourage women from pregnancy in the eye of raising children for adoption. I know that wasn't the end of the bill at first, but this is what I read out of it, and that's why I think it needs to be changed and adjusted. The report says: ▪ Strategies are difficult and, in many cases, difficult decisions for women. Is it the opinion of the transporters that it is easier, less difficult, to take a child for nine months, to feed it, and then to give it away? There's a lot of physical and mental stress, and I have to say that I don't think that it's an easier way, just not at all, and therefore I wonder if these transporters are just against pregnancy breakers. It would have made me feel much more clean to present a pregnancy - breaking bill. There was a talk earlier about the counseling. I've had experience having a baby here at home and then in Britain. It is very difficult to ensure that neutral advice is provided for pregnant women who need to seek advice. It's very difficult, and I didn't have such neutral advice in Iceland. I did so in Britain, the British may have more experience with this than we do, but there it will really be a challenge if it is to be a duty to female counselees. Then there is the need to ensure that the counseling is objective and professional and that no one is pushed into something he does not eventually want. That's very difficult. In Iceland there is almost complete freedom both to break and to give birth to a child for adoption. Both may be, and I am very open to the fact that women who choose to give birth to their children for adoption are born with birth leaves. I wouldn't want to talk about birthal strength to anyone. I'd like to talk about birthstorm and then I'd like to take everyone with me, not only women who choose to give their children for adoption, not just parents who choose to have their baby, but also those women and girls who choose to break their pregnancy. The importance of psychological counseling and the benefits of adoption were referred to here. I don't think girls and women who prefer pregnancy break out are in any less need than others. If we're going to expand maternity or birth strength, I don't think we should tie it to women and girls who prefer to give their children for adoption, but also to give the girls and women who choose to break the same amount of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u79	Mr. President. The following issue is needed because it is suggested to support the women who are in a position to give away children at birth and that they have social and financial strength available to them. You might say that this bill is partly transferred, as mentioned earlier, by Mr. President's permission, for the people who cannot have children. That's right, we feel sorry for people who can't have children, we can, even though we're men, and we think we can do both things for them, i.e. Also, a woman who decides to walk with a child and give it as a adoption, to support her so that she can do so without also experiencing economic damage, not just emotional damage, so this bill is presented here. As we have seen, it has been said that much of what was discussed here in earlier discussions at the council, where the words, by the permission of presidents, have been discussed by the President's permission of a terrible beat-up line, were observed. Before, but I have called it an intolerance to the opinions of others. We, on this bill, have striven to do so in a very honest way. We expected that, just as we talked about the second bill earlier in the winter, the discussion on this subject would be emotional, for it is a matter that affects many people's feelings. That doesn't change, though, because I have to say that I don't think there's much need to try to make this case suspicious in some way. I also don't feel like it's necessary to give people opinions. This biller has already declared that he was opposed to the abortion bill that appeared earlier at the council. On the other hand, I declared support for that matter in the General Assembly chair, and I don't know why should it be credible rather than something else I say here in this chair. I declared it there, but I declared doubt about the timing, I immediately described it, so I must admit that I find myself bored with trying to make our approach, which is here, irrefutable in some way. I don't see any grounds for that. That's why we put this bill forward, and we just want to pay the streets of the women who want to walk this path that's not easy. We also want to give a route to people who want to adopt here in a country that is not too much of a country. It can be called, by President, the people who cannot have children, but I'm sure it's very difficult for many not to be able to. It is not right to have a baby, and no one has the right to have it, and some are, in effect, unable to do so. Therefore, wherever this case comes from, the carriers of this bill want to do this process that is difficult for everyone to do better than it would be. The only one is the purpose of this bill. Therefore, I hope that when the bill goes to a committee at its time, it will receive a careful passage and be called to a professional who can say yes and fall on the case, so that after making an informed decision in this hall, we will be able to pay the street of this bill forward and make it a law or not. That's what it's all about. It's so simple. Then you can just stop asking if someone like me has any right to make any statements, as mentioned earlier. Yes, I do. Although I am biologically different from some in this room, I feel that I should be there and I should have no right to stand up as if what we have here for the treatment, and I hope, as I say, this case is going to get a walk in the council and that it should be a clear way through a committee, after a careful review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u80	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym to denounce the response of the Spanish government to a vote on the independence of Catalonia, including the arrest of Catalonian politicians. This decree of action is made by the Parliament to denounce the response of the government in Spain at a vote held in Catalonia on October 1, 2017, on the matter of independence. On September 6, 2017, the Council of Catalonia adopted legislation allowing a vote on the Declaration of Independence to Spain, which Catalonia is a veritable government body of its own. On September 7, the European Court of Justice invalidated the law of law. Nevertheless, on October 1, 2017, despite repeated efforts by the Spanish government, often violent, to prevent its implementation, the vote took place. The result was clear, however, because 92.01% of the voters said yes to the voters' question: 'Do you know that Catalonia will become an independent state with a republic? On November 8, 2017, the government's declaration of independence was reimbursed by the European Court of Justice on the grounds that it had violated the Constitution and therefore was meaningless. Since the vote has been issued, warrants have been issued for the arrest of many politicians in Catalonia, and have at least Nine of them spent months in prison in Spain without being accused. Among them is the former president of the Catalonian Council. Still others are exiled, and if they return home, they are in danger of being arrested. I'm going to list these people, they're going to be against the Catalonian politicians. Oriol Junqueras, vice president and economic minister, has been in custody without charge since November 2017. Jordi Turull, president of the President, has been in custody without charge since March 2018. Since November 2017, Joaquim of Forn Ministers has been in custody without charge. Secretary Raül Romeva has been in custody without charge since November 2017. Dolors Bassa, pro-consuling minister, has been in custody without charge since November 2017. Josep Rull, SOS, has been in custody without a charge since November 2017. Since November 2017, Secretary - General Borràs Borràs has been in custody without charge. Minister Mundó Mundo has been in custody without charge since November 2017. Santi Santi Vila, of course, was in custody without a charge for nine months, but now bail is available. Carles Puigdemont, president of Catalonia, is in exile to avoid arrest and accusations. The Secretary of Health Comín Comin is in exile to avoid arrest and charges. Ponsatí Ponsati is in exile to avoid arrest and prosecution. Serret Serret is in exile to avoid arrest and prosecution. The Secretary of Culture Lluís Puig is in exile to avoid arrests and charges. They're just politicians at the Catalonian Parliament. Feared are leaders of union parties and groups of action that have been taken into custody, accused, or exiled. Let us now imagine that we were still under Dana's rule and that we were at the highest level. Iceland's ministers would have proposed the independence of Iceland from Dana. That would be the best. Ministers; secretary of finance and economics, Bjarni Benediktsson, Minister of the Foreign Affairs of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson and Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen in prison. V.E.G. Secretary of Health, Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, chief. Minister of Education and Culture, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, and president of the Republic, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, may well be in exile in continental Europe. It's an attack on politicians. This is an attack on democracy. It is an attack on freedom of expression, freedom of thought, and freedom of movement. These are political prisoners, conscientious prisoners in a European democracy, our fellow union. I want to emphasize special importance, and I want it to be very clear that this body of Congress motion is not a subsidiary declaration of independence in Catalonia but a serious reminder to the Spanish government to provide the right to volunteer for voters without the risk of being deprived of freedom. The foreign minister of Catalonia, Alfred Bosch, is scheduled for Iceland in March. I encourage the secretary of state, State Department, and all non-contract members and members of Congress to meet with him in their case and receive first - hand descriptions of the violence of the Spanish authorities. Over 300,000 Catalons marquee in the streets of Barcelona. Saturday to protest the trial of nine Catalonian politicians and three representatives of a community organization that began on February 12th, and last November, some 350,000 Catalons protested imprisonment and the exile of Catalonian politicians. Spanish courts accuse these people of opposition and rebellion against the Spanish State. It is up to 25 years in prison. Most of them have been in custody for 12 months without a charge. These are political prisoners, and it is obvious that the Spanish authorities are criminalizing freedom of opinion and freedom of opinion. This will be a trial of democracy, a trial of freedom of thought and expression. Politicians in Catalonia do not have the right to promote their views, and they are charged with this. However, it has been suggested that according to the Spanish constitution, it is forbidden to accuse political dissidents. Spanish courts intend to give a witness in the case of the former prime minister of Spain, but they have rejected the Puigdemont of the court of Catalonia, Lillidemont. The Spanish government has also denied representatives of international research, surveillance, and human rights institutions to attend the trial. Various UN institutions, the European Council and the SCC, together with 57 member states on security and cooperation in Europe, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, universal political experts and MCT, which are an international anti - torture organization, various human rights organizations, lawyers and judges have condemned these unprecedented actions by the Spanish government. Therefore, I would like to encourage the United Nations to give our support to our colleagues in Catalonia and accept this synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u81	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir for bringing attention to Catalonia and other transporters on this council decree that we shall discuss here. I'd like to discuss the trial as a matter of course. A senator spoke about in his talk. Council proposals were submitted in November. and since then we have experienced this trial. In his talk, a candidate discussed the matter. I had a meeting in Madrid last week with the Catalonian politicians, including Alfred Bosch, the minister of the foreign office of Catalonia. These political leaders were there to observe the trial over 12 Catholic independence leaders, free members of a community, and politically elected people. The 12 men have already been imprisoned without a trial for 12 in the past 14 months. Indeed, their imprisonment is distressing. The trial began last week, but the case is due to a vote on the Declaration of Independence in the fall of 2017, as is the case here in the paper. To give a clearer picture of the case, the president of the Catalonian Congress is among those who are now on trial, and she is accused simply because she had raised a discussion on the Catholic matter at the council. Like a snooze. A senator here also identified a group of free partners who are, in fact, accused simply because they have an opinion of the issue of independence. The issue is whether they've violated the Constitution. It's about this, but unfortunately, there's a number of factors that suggest that already a decision has been made to punish them, just the question of which punishment will be chosen. It is also sobering to think seriously that among people who come to take the matter against the independence of Catalonia, the right extreme class, Vox, which, unfortunately, grows to the point of Spanish politics and takes full advantage of Catalo's independence struggle for that purpose. This is the class requiring the greatest penalty for the Orool Junqueras, leader of the ECR Party, which requires 74 years in prison for including Rebellion and organized crime. The other accusers, district attorney, and the state themselves, require decades of penalties against the defendant. This requirement, Mr. President, is quite remarkable, for it was indeed a sad and dramatic moment when I sat with fellow ECR members of the Junqueras council when they looked at their leader in a tent, since access to the trial was not permitted, held their first defense. Tears fell, and it was an emotional moment for the elected representatives to observe the effective defenses of their companions and presidents. It is unlikely that this will take place in Europe in 2019 because it is seen from our view of the independence struggle between Catalonia that this trial is a political prison of political leaders who have been peacefully fighting for their convictions and opinions simply disturbing. Political situation is complex in Spain. We also face the fact that the decision of the Treaty in October 2017 regarding the independent struggle for Catalonia was not decisive. About half of Catalou is not supposed to be independent, so the situation in Spain in general is both delicate and complex. The Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced last week to election after the council rejected a financial bill of the Socialist Party. Catholic Independenceist members of the Spanish Parliament supported the government but voted against the bill, since Sánchez did not agree to their claim to attend a further discussion on Cataloman's suicide rights. The election in April. Thus, Spanish politics is under great pressure. Then the trial will be still ongoing, as well as elections for the European Parliament and for the countryside in several provinces. But what is complicated and becomes even more complicated for Spain and Europe is dealing with the rise of nationalism and extremeism that foster hatred against foreigners, homosexuals, and openly speaks against women. This class uses this independence campaign for its advancement. It should not be difficult to speak and to resist the rise of extreme, rightish catch in Spain, especially Franco's history, but it is for Spanish politicians. In that struggle, all of us must be in the same boat and speak for human rights and democracy and freedom of expression. Therefore, I would also like to report that as a member of the Council of the European Parliament, I have discussed Catalonia's issues with other European Parliaments. There are senators who are cautious, especially members of the European Union, understandably, but, in my opinion, we must focus on it and keep in mind that this trial is not just about the Constitution of Spain, not on the legal issue of Catalonia's independence but on human rights and freedom of expression. We have to protect it. Never can you agree that politicians who have battled peacefully for their convictions and opinions are imprisoned, locked, and knocked without trial and law for many months, with decades of imprisonment. So I want to reiterate what I said in the beginning: I rejoice at it. paritaprevir Here Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir calls attention to the peace of independence and the response of Spain. We, as democracies targeted in international cooperation, are to support human rights, democracy, legal states, and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-20-68.u82	Mr. President. At first, I want to thank you. paritaprevir For taking the initiative in this matter, Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir for volunteering, and for encouraging all of us to condemn the response of the Spanish government following a vote on the independence of Catalonia, especially the arrest of Catalonian politicians. This is important to me, and I support the concierge proposal for a whole mind ending up with her. I want to thank you too. A senator for a very good, very bad speech just before, as well. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. I don't think I have to go back to the material we're discussing here. I think that's what. Senators have handled this situation very well and how complex it is, but what the point is. He is seeing out from our opinions on the independence of Catalonia, away from our opinions on whether the Catalonias have the right of self - determination to go beyond the sovereignty of the Spanish state, we must condemn this political trial, condemn custody for this long period of time and so strong a charge for having been members of the council who expressed their own opinions, for having fought for their ideals at the council. As members of Congress, we must see the dangers of democracy and how serious it is that such is taking place in a democracy like Spain. We were particularly careful about the implementation of this proposal to avoid taking sides with the Catalonia self - determination rights because, as we know, the national rights is a bit complex when it comes to national self - determination. If it is a sovereign state, a national offense or part of that state may not separate itself from the State unless everyone votes for it, except in certain exceptional circumstances that include. when it is particularly damaging to the national or regional part of the world, when there is much human rights violations and when there is a very serious violation of human rights or even ethnic cleansing. I would not necessarily say that the situation has come to that place, but to me, the Spanish authorities feel that they are creating the situation through their conduct. I'm very sorry and very strange. I just wanted to introduce it because, of course, a national offense has its own rights, and it is important that we respect it, but there may be some difference of opinion as to whether these conditions are met or not. Therefore, the procedure in this proposal was to focus on just the violations of human rights, this serious threat to the democracy that will be tolerated in Spain with these political trials, incarcerated by political agents, elected agents, and also through the Interpol and Eurostat to pursue a political representative outside of Spain's landstones. Being a member of the European Union, not our neighboring states in Europe, but certainly our friendly European states, we must want to be the friend that comes out of the picture. Iceland is a small country, but it can have a lot to do with brave indications like this, with brave reproofs like this. We can set a global example and show that we really care about the Kingdom, democracy, and human rights. paritaprevir That was how Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir came to be spoken of earlier.
