ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u1	President. There have been a number of interesting scenes in this discussion and, with follow-up, have been doing research on things that the government had not had to present to us. Hv. A senator has been particularly diligent in searching for originals, examining the regulations and everything related to them, thus drawing his logical conclusions. Although many interesting facts were evident at all times during the discussion, I was told that this was the case. A senator just introduced us here is a bomb. Hv. A senator laid the basis for what he went over with us earlier. But given that it's a lot of touchy stuff, how these dates play into drafting, play into the introduction, I want to pray. A senator about to review it again, considering the basics he once laid, let us use a teaspoon. Because it sounds like something that the government cannot avoid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u2	It was an answer from the oar. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u3	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u4	Then the books have got a little mixed up with the President, but we'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'll work hard to do that. In my first speech tonight, I reviewed the Senate resolution and what it involves. However, it says that decisions made by the joint EEA Member States under the EEA Convention to national rights immediately after they have been taken, unless one of them is authorized according to 103.g. to warn that the decision cannot be binding immediately because of the administrative conditions at home. The Member State has a period of six months since the decision to the joint committee is taken to lift the warning. We've put this government on notice. - And now I need time. - We've got some controlling orders. That's why it's at 103. The European Economic Convention at hand. However, the decisions taken in this EU joint committee in these cases and the terms of the contract should be binding on an employee's contract from time to time unless prescribed otherwise and should be made necessary to ensure their implementation and application, i.e. ... fromtheinstitution. The value is May 5, 2017, and the text of the Regulation is considered valid. There are no warnings against him. The scope of the Regulation is considered valid from May 5. The only thing to wait for is the removal of the administrative notice. It is in order that the Council of Congress recommend an arrangement at the highest level. Secretary of State: Yes, introduce a pack of three. As soon as it is done, when a vote is complete here at the General Assembly, a three - pack of energy is introduced in the sense of law and has full value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u6	Mr. President. Now I understand why. A senator earlier tonight put so much emphasis on the warning, there should be some support in it, they needed to contain dates. You cannot help but wonder after reading this: What value have those imaginary warnings had they not even become an idea in 2017 when this took on the form to which to introduce it, if a three - pack of energy is approved? As far as I'm understood, if the council now agrees with this synopsis on the reduction of administrative plans, the induction of a three - pack of energy, it will take effect as it was walked in 2017 when no one had thought, apparently now, trying to mislead the discussion with some reference to a warning. Now I can better understand the words of the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, former prime minister and prime minister of the Independence Party, when he spoke of deception. In fact, he called the advance deception, but he may have calculated it in a way that he did. A senator has now done so. Now I understand even better the scholars who said that the models were only for home bridges. I get it. Is it true that if the Council approves a pack of three energy, it will only be introduced as it was 2017, when no one had thought of talking about a warning in this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u7	Mr. President. Yes, that is the short answer. And that is why scholars speak of the need for the warnings to be seen before the introduction. If they come in after induction, they have no value. Homemade premonitions are, as noted, to home bridges and have no value. They will not bind us to a higher level of national rights and national rights in terms of law and law. This also explains what Professor Carl Baudenbacher's opinion is about Iceland's making comments on the joint EEA committee before the decision was published. There, the Icelandic Convention Committee was concerned about the opposition in Iceland at the source of the energy package, but particularly with the Regulation No. 713/2009 about ACER, of the surveillance facility. Iceland thus held a view where we would adopt the case in the joint EEA committee with the intention of negotiating other adaptations or results for Iceland due to the third energy package, and particularly this Regulation. The conclusion of this metaphysicist was that it was unmistakably, because the legal way is that way. She's right, the other way's wrong. But it seems very difficult to get senators, executives, presidents of the bill, the highest. Minister, to come here and discuss it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u8	Mr. President. I had planned to give my speech over issues that are in many ways closely linked to the European Union energy directives that we address here and the government are now planning to introduce in Iceland. In 2008, I refer to matters legalized in this country as a joint EEA committee. This is reflected in the European Union Directive No. 77/2001 and it's about promoting renewable energy use in the European Economic Area, but the legislation deals with the primary responsibility for electricity and is No. 30/2001. The Law included the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 29/2009 to encourage energy use from renewable energy sources. The laws are designed to create the conditions for business with so - called the source of electricity produced by renewable energy sources. Mr. President. Extensive responsibility is the title of a form of written proof of the source of energy produced in the region, i.e. The European Economic Area, started. Electricity, as we know, can originate from different sources of energy, e.g. coal, nuclear energy, gas, or fallwater activation, as is most common in this country. The law defines the origin of electrical energy as cohesive. It is defined as a confirmation that electricity is produced through cohesion, which has good energy efficiency according to the criteria set by Power Institute. The definition of electricity produced by renewable energy donors under these laws is therefore electrical energy from power plants that use only renewable energy, as well as electricity produced by renewable energy sources in the environment by mixed technology using nonrenewable energy sources as well as renewable energy sources. The law says it's Landsnet Corp. who are responsible for the publication of these primary responsibilities, and who are monitoring that electricity, confirmed by the release of responsibilities, is actually produced by renewable energy sources, and will do so according to the request of the manufacturer of the electrical energy that generates this renewable electricity. Witnessing on source responsibilities can be written or electronic but should be in accordance with European Parliament and Council Directive No. 28/2009, of April 23, 2009. The form of this certificate is confirmed by the Power Institute. The responsibility can be extended only back in time, not in advance, and each individual responsibility should be made up for every minute produced. Landsnet shall remain faithful. That's an important point. The law says that the Landsnet should keep confidential about all the information on business interests and other information that is fair and normal to be secreted. A national network is authorized to demand pay for the printing of the responsibilities or certificates and should keep a record of the given origins under the law and provide the Power Institute with information on the given origins each year. These responsibilities should be provided with information including Depending on the power plant, with what power source power source is produced, the share of renewable energy in total electricity production in the power plant, the power plant's efficiency, if changing, information about the number of responsibilities, and what is more involved in the responsibilities and more precise information. Then the Landsnet is obliged to provide governments, customers and the public with information necessary to evaluate whether the company meets its obligations under the law but is permitted to keep business information that affects e.g. Business interests, and other information fair and natural to conceal, as they say, unless customers grant written consent. I'm just starting to go over this. This is an interesting subject on the origin of electricity responsibilities and has to do with the interests of energy users and buyers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u9	Mr. President. In my last speech, I studied only a brief interview with Friðrik Árni Hirst from April, but what I was going to do with them was to put a little more into reference to the Foreign Affairs Committee from The Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson of a lawyer. In short, he, as I have come in before, has made very significant comments to the induction of the third energy package as he is now thought of. In a sense, there is also a harmony between him and the Frideks of Friðrik Árni. This interview with Friðrik Árni was taken, if I recall correctly, only after he sent this letter to the Ministry of State. But as I told you before, when I cut down only the information on Eyjólfur's account, he says that the legal arrangement that is made, as it is now, involves ◯-proven legal stability and uncertainty concerning the follow-up of the EEA Convention, while the warning is that by induction Iceland can become part of the internal energy market. This includes a hall for government and administrative applications and at the General Assembly to demand further information on the induction. That's what we were trying to do tonight. Actually, we asked for information and we didn't get it. Then there were quoted words above that he interprets as that are vaguely the legal agent, so we might look for the lost warning as we do. He also says: Therefore, it would have been expected to introduce the correct national commitment to Iceland's key natural resource by a Regulation but to review later - if a cable is to be laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and also to consider whether the induction conforms to Iceland's Constitution. It's a question of the future, and then it says here, by permission of the president, that the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights and if it conforms to a constitution. In other words, he claims that the government groups are not prepared for whether this is going to work. I felt that it only came to light today because I have to admit that I felt the highest. The minister of foreign affairs sounds as if he were not quite sure what he had in his hands. I'll probably say that to him myself when I meet him next time, because he's not here, so he doesn't think I'm speaking back. I got that bad feeling, I'm sorry. In his review, the Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson says a little later: To introduce national rules that do not have value in Iceland leads to legal uncertainty and conflict with national interests. Fear of losing control of natural resources is one reason why Iceland is not part of the European Union. That authority is intertwined with independence and prosperity for the nation. The Conspiracy proposal is submitted to the General Assembly, with reference to Article 21. The constitution. This article states that if treaties include extenuating or landways, or if they look to a change in government regulations, the approval of the Generals is due. - He so hatches in saying, "It's clear that in the nation's most important natural resources the nation should seek its approval. He proposes that this type be paid nationally. In itself, Mr. President, I can agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. With regard to this warning, they have presented themselves at various levels in this discussion, especially at the beginning of the second, but not in any context with the synonym, which directly states that this section will break up on the 21st floor. The constitution. On the one hand, I would like to grab here in text from the mouth. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, from the second. May 15th, 2019. He is a member of the House of Independence, and thus he is well versed in. Hv. A senator says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses is the legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses in your country. A legal advance is not something you find a model in a legal foreword book. However, it is very clear in the rule of order, i.e. in the Act on the European Economic Area Convention, how to address and determine the date and date of the warning. I'd say it was a foreword book. That's why, chief. Mr President, it is important that the members of Congress who have claimed this kind of order come in here, explain their words and explain what we're getting at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u11	Mr. President. We have called very much for this matter to be spoken to. We've called very hard to believe that the people who follow this case are here and that we have a place to speak to us, asking where we've been, and trying to convince us, and the 62% of the people who are opposed to this phenomenon, about why we should take this assignment, what is so great that we don't see. Maybe we're just so weak, that may be, and then it's good to get intelligent people to help us out and get laid. I've always said that if someone else offers a solution that's a better solution than we have, of course, we've heard, but nobody's coming. First of all, no one comes and talks to us, and second, the people you try to get something out of no solution. They have no solution that's so great, which hit the nail so completely, that you can say, "Yes, of course, we do it this way. It's just not like that. The more you read, the more you become convinced that the Constitution is - so that you are polite - swollen to the limit. I think it's safe to say. Authority is being delivered to a greater extent than ever before. It may well be that we're all wrong about this, and I've said that before I hope I'm wrong about this, but I just don't see it yet, unfortunately, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to go on from what I came in earlier on the counter. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargian, of Dr Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzoff. Senator, May 15th. I'll continue to read directly from the counterweight of what. Senator, with permission from the President: It has been proposed that by means of the induction of these regulations and decisions, we are implementing in a conventional way. --in a traditional way, which means fully - ◯Hins, it is clear that the greater part of the council that will resolve this legal issue will be taken into account in terms of the legal requirement for linking between countries, through the cables, will be revised and reviewed and reviewed by the administrative factors before making decisions about this connection. At the decision of the joint EEA Committee, the President says: The European Commission is considered to be validated. This decision will have a value on May 6, 2017, or the day following the last announcement, as per Article 1. 103. g. The EEA Convention has been conducted based on the date of the second, i.e. May 6, or the signing, May 5, 2017. Words go. Congress needs explanations. Ain't that right, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u13	Mr. President. Yes, indeed, and it's not of nothing that we've asked these fine people to stay here with us all the time, all this week. It's not like these people haven't had enough time to come and look at us. We've been here more and less, like Aggress 24/7. There was enough time, and if people had been busy sometime during the day or the day, they could have walked us here all the time. I just don't understand how much longer my worm's staying. I just don't understand why these nice people don't come here. They can just snatch us in a chair and tell us that we are underappreciative and that we do not know anything about what we are doing. It would just be an escape for such an appeal, i.e. If she were quick to reason, and to take care of her. But no such thing will happen, not any creature thing. Then I tried to have a place to say. A senator left green earlier and saw beneath him when I quoted his words a year ago. There was no boring thing in it, not any creature, there was no rudeness in it. There was just an explanation for what he said a year ago. Now he's in a circle, and I didn't find it unusual to ask for an explanation. Maybe he figured something I didn't know, so he changed his mind. It would also have been a gain to know, but men don't allow an interview, that's just the way it is. That is why we keep on trying to get this information out and share it with others. It is natural to know that there are still people out here and within them eager to hear what they are getting together, whatever information, etc. In that case, we will continue, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u14	President. I'd like to take some advice. A senator's reaction to their amazingly embalmed illuminating light. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson went over early. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, to what he had already diagnosed. Hv. paritaprevir In 2017, Þorvaldsson Thorddsson clearly explained that if the third energy package is approved here at the council, it will take effect exactly as it appeared to the joint EEA committee, long before talking about this warning that has been called praiseworthy deception. In other words, the warnings have exactly nothing to say. This also raises questions about the Norwegian warning, although they may have looked considerably more reliable than they used to be in Icelandic. All of a sudden you see why the board had no idea where the warning was, when you first asked for it, and you referred in all directions. It comes on the day when they have absolutely no value. If the energy package is approved, it will be introduced as it looked in 2017, long before someone had the idea of trying to sell it in advance. Doesn't mean that, in the light of the night. A senator went over here before, that there's only one way? That's actually just one thing to do, and that's to return the case to the EEA joint committee. It does not mean that we try to make warnings, even better warnings than those imagined government warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u15	Mr. President. If I were to say that this was informative, I'd be, in effect, taking it down quite a bit because it's kind of striking information. I don't know why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppé knew about it last year, when he was opposed to the introduction of the package, that he looked exactly like that. It would be nice to have an answer at some point. So you're saying that again, all the time we've been discussing this matter, new information has been published all the time. We've always been looking for information that makes things better and more appealing. No. Sadly, only information on this situation has been presented so far that it makes it even worse and less likable than it ever was. To tell you the truth, I've kind of stopped trying to figure out what the living forms of government can think of making this impression the way it looks now. I just don't understand it for my little life. I also don't understand why they don't deal with what we've been asking for many times before - we've already asked that these plans be put aside for a while and we'll take care of the situation. In view of these last data, it is not only desirable, it is necessary, absolutely necessary. [[The president calls.]] - And I still have two seconds left, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u16	The president asks why. The senator accidentally hit the hammer on the bell, but very gently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u17	I noticed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u18	I don't think it's been that bad, but that's what was untimely on the top. A president, two seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u19	President. After the whistle-blowns. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, earlier, puts so many other factors in perspective. In a new light, you see statements about this, to form what I mentioned earlier about the so - called praiseworthy deception, the scholar's claims that these warnings existed in the home bridges, reports such as Stefán Már and Friðrik of Árni. This will have a whole new, clearer meaning when you realize the basic facts brought on here that as soon as you accept the third energy package, it will be introduced as it looked in 2017, long before anyone thought to talk about this so-called advance. That is why, when such a big fact can lie in silence, not just for days, but for weeks, because these ideas have been discussed for a very long time, how many other things will come out of the weather. In fact, we've been talking here about something, but how many more things are going to come up with the third energy package? This brings us to our attention. A senator came in from earlier on about the legal uncertainty and the legal uncertainty of the politics. Do we look forward to the fact that it is impossible to say how far this third energy package is going to go when people are available - hopefully not - to agree with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to witness, by permission of the President, to what the Eyjólfur of the Ármannsson's son says about the advance. He says on page 8. 2 of his report, by permission of the President: The review of the synopsis of the European Commission Directive on the implementation of the EU species into national dishes is of little but interesting interest, cr. This proposal will be agreed with the Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009... introduced in Icelandic properly but under legal notice that the infrastructure which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation and the implementation of its cross-border connections laws will not be carried out until the revision is completed. It will also be considered even further and specifically at the Generals field whether its introduction in these circumstances harmonizes with the Icelandic constitution. Listen, this is just what we've been asking for. No one answers, and it is no wonder that Ármannsson Eyolfállsson concludes that the legal court I read at the moment contains questionable legal delinquency and uncertainty. He says: ▪ The program includes the promotion of sovereignty and administrative matters and the Council to demand further information on the induction. That's what I read earlier. We haven't demanded, we've asked for this, but we don't get any answers. This fine lawyer, who lives in Norway and knows the Norwegian story quite out and in, points out to do this, using our right to ask for information. We do, but we don't get any answers. All we get is a stinky minister in the area that has turned on us and a bad word. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President, I went through eight seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u21	The President doesn't know which level. A minister is totally worthy of this comment, but in any case, it is clear that there is a problem. The members of the Central Party do not appreciate it. A minister came here and referred to them for three and a half hours and tried to answer questions as had been requested. Hv. Senators may disagree with the answers, but I don't think it's a good reason to keep wearing the highest outlets. Secretary of State for coming to the council and granting the members of Congress a meeting. That's what a clean, sincere president says. Senators. I would also like to inform you that this discussion has been going on for 80 hours. Of these, the members of the Central Party have spoken in an up - to - date 70 C.E. At the end of a meeting this morning, the president directed protests to members of the Central Party, but he does not know that this was a major factor. So it is not to conceal that it would be most desirable if this discussion could begin to end. For instance, the staff of the Generalis would accept not having to stay up one more night. In some way, the president has a feeling that soon it will be, or has already been said, in this matter. Hv. The members of the Central Party complain that other members of Parliament are not available for the discussion, but the closest thing is to conclude that they feel that they have already finished saying what they have to say and that they have nothing to do with taking care of the case. Senators are self - controlled on the extent to which they need to express themselves and when they feel that they no longer have to add anything else. That's the way it goes. So I think that's why. The members of the Central Party are not improving by repeating their wishes that members of Congress who know well because this discussion is being conducted. They will not be forced to do so. Now there are three men on the rosary, each with a five - minute talk period, which means that this discussion could end in 15 minutes if it was. The members of the Central Party, the same people, did not repeatedly ask for the word, or did not argue with themselves. But keep going, the meeting will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u22	President. I'll use my speech lesson to respond to the protests. President on comments at the very moment. Secretary of state here. But I find it very strange to hear how much it is. The President's setting things up. It's the highest. A president who has been assigned here at the council. We've been calling many times to let every subject on this program as high as possible. The president would like to discuss, but rather than accept it, the president has beat all the previous records in making the council work at night and until tomorrow. I am deeply concerned that the Generals' staff will have to work in this situation and therefore encourage a president to consider his methods in the opposite way to what he is planning, apparently, by means of such conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u23	Mr. President. I'd like to stay only with what the president once said about various people whom we've called for them to say. Just as he asks us to respect the fact that various members of the council do not want to come here to meet us because they think they have said everything they need to say. It has been shown, both tonight and before, that there are still new information on this huge case and we don't think that it's allowed to be handled, but this case is presented in our opinion. That is why we want to continue to discuss it, because new information is constantly being developed that strengthens what we have said on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to pray to the highest. A president's sincere concern, and it really has nothing to do with politics, taking advantage of his program to postpone this case, allowing important matters that actually need to be learned over time, and allowing us to discuss this in a good way, where everyone will hear, and where experts can be considered as to the facts presented here. I know it's the highest. The president has been here carefully observing the discussion and has heard what we have been doing here. It's real opinion. I want to pray to the highest. A president of a clean, sincere faith that he can use the program in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u25	The president has shown abundant understanding of the cause. Councilmen, especially sharp. The members of the Central Party have had to express themselves extensively on this matter. He has met their wishes for this by holding here for a long time, and he is still doing so. The members of the Central Party, who have to express themselves so richly. While it has certainly been a major burden on the staff of the General Assembly, this and the situation are dedicated to the fact that few of the Generals' work days are now being carried out, and superfluous projects are waiting to be taken care of. A normal schedule is to take this matter and discuss it when it comes out of the committee. To remind us that the matter is settled and recommended by its approval by eight of the nine members of the foreign committee. As a result, it can be assumed that there is great support, and little smaller things cannot force a program authority and will not take it from the President of the General Assembly here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u26	Mr. President. I'm going to state here and now that we members of the Central Party appreciate the fact that the President has extended the meeting time here. However, this long meeting period has not in itself interrupted another General Assembly meeting because, like tonight and yesterday, we are meeting on a date in which a meeting was not expected. Of the 80 hours mentioned earlier by the President, I would expect to estimate, outside of the traditional meeting period, so we have not in itself been disturbing the kind of meeting period that the General Assembly has. But I just wanted to come up here and tell you that we appreciate it for President that he has given us the opportunity to make abundant comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u27	It is good for a president to hear, but it does not change his wish and attitude that it would be very good if this discussion were to be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u28	President. It's been some time since I pointed out to the president the fact that he and his other friends from the left movement were ◯ green supply, the United States, and other groups would often have felt that they had a lot to discuss. Nevertheless, none of the former presidents of the World Congress thought it would be best to resolve these matters by trying to hide the discussion, even to silence it, by leaving meetings up until the end. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 in the morning. That's why I'm at the highest. The president to consider the staff of the Generals and the Times Management Board with the objective, as has happened in the past, that discussion takes place until a relatively short time, and therefore hopefully yields a good result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u29	President. In view of the words given earlier by the president, I cannot afford to mention only at the beginning of my talk, though basically another, they are illuminated at the same time. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson brought you here, which, by my opinion, runs at least. a completely new light on the matter, but I've been watching it for a long time. Thus, we have not had any reactions, any more than any other discoveries, other indications that have occurred during this discussion. It is therefore peculiar, in my opinion, to the highest degree. The president would seek to silence members of the council, ask them to stop speaking, at the same time that not one of the members of the Council, or other groups who want to force this proposal to answer these findings. V.E.G. The minister of state showed up earlier tonight, as the president of the past did. But the problem with that visit was that first of all, he answered virtually no questions. He reassigned his points from the Ministry of State, which everyone had heard at the beginning of this case, did not seem to have observed the discussion, failed to react to anything that had been discussed during the discussion, and in fact did not react to questions at any given time. Councilmen, different from those of the people with pure gladiatores. So I don't think it necessary for the president to make a statement about this very special procedure. Secretary of state today. One of the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was mentioned the position of the application on involvement in the European Union. Comments highest. Ministers, though they were to be part of the smoke bombs he tried to throw to avoid discussion about the matter, were still very revealing in view of this matter that we are discussing here. Because there was nothing else to hear at the highest. Minister, but that he would suggest that Iceland might be Iceland. An application state on involvement in the European Union. Of course, he wanted to blame others, as he did. In fact, he did not feel that the independent party was responsible if that was true. In other words, when the application procedure was terminated, strong words could have been taken. Not least was it to make atonement for the Independence Party, which at that time was fearful of the political party that later set up the revere, a three - year - old birthday tonight, that was a mild - tempered choice of words. However, it was quite clear that Iceland's application for membership in the European Union had been rejected, Iceland was no longer an applicant country. Why do I mention this in the context of my third energy package? Yeah, count tops. Minister of State to Iceland is still an applicant state of involvement in the European Union because it does not want to escape, unless it agrees with the U.S. government's decision that Iceland is no longer an applicant, we can imagine what it would be like to deal with the relationship when it comes to defending Icelandic energy interests, this third energy package is created. We can only imagine, then, whether the European Union's position would be that we had already made it, and we must have followed our previous induction. It's so different that if it's the highest. Secretary of State believes that Iceland is still a member country of the European Union where the question of why is the highest. Ministers have not permanently ended the course of enforcation? But there is also a question that should be associated with the questions raised about this third energy package and the strange interest of the highest. Ministers should get him through, with good or evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I sat and listened to the talk and meditated on the discussion that has taken place during the previous session of the council arrangement and then during the hearing of the members of the board and the members of the entry, participated in it, which was the last meeting yesterday, where it was. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was still in answer. Then I began to think that there have been many calls for warnings or examples of warnings that have been held. And whether they know the example. I have not yet been told that men know that the prefects were put in this way and thought. However, there have been cases of temporary and temporary replacements, or preconceived in national rights and not held; and the ruling authority in Europe, the EFTA Court, was regarded as being wrong. As a result, Member States who have taken that way have been sentenced to follow the introduction as they were supposed to, and then maintain the agreement accordingly. Often it has created countries to be damaged, such as in the raw meat business. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Does he know the example of the agreements what these watchers look like if they are properly introduced and then what they look like after they have been introduced into the European Economic Area Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u31	President. First of all, I can tell you what. The senator said that those who asked a similar question to the State Department said that they did not know any examples of setting up a one - sided priority in the above way, as it is clear in the EEA Convention how to obtain an exception or, in other words, a warning is made. You're right. One senator says, people have tried one thing and another in this regard. But then it has been returned. It has been interpreted as, and, naturally, by the words of the agreement, that when they make them, they will be made complete. Whatever it is. This is emphasized in a very clear way by a senator who studied earlier this evening. Adding what is involved in the date and version that really takes effect. Nevertheless, the so - called warnings of the third energy package, and Norway with other warnings, continue to try. Then there is hope. A senator wondered why. In view of your experience, however, you see no other reason for that, no meaningful explanation, but that it is done to get the case through, to see if the Assembly itself and then to the members of Congress might be a little more inclined to vote with it. But they know that if there is no action and there is a disagreement, it is full of meaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u32	V.E.G. President. The reason I ask is that it is clearly stated how to introduce the actions. Seven. The European Economic Convention says, with permission of the President: • Factors referred to or found in addition to this agreement, or decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee, binding parties, and being or being recorded in the national rights as follows: a) The type corresponding to the EU Regulation shall be recorded in the national accordance of the Treaty; b) Type corresponding to the Council Directive EBE◯ - which we have here, Directive 72/2009, 73/2009 - both give parties a choice of shape and method of implementation. That is a very clear form of how things are done when regulations and regulations are introduced into the national rights and how they come into effect. What I have in mind is, how would the document have looked when we received an exception to fishing and fishing? How would we have done this then? Shouldn't this look the way it was then?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u33	President. Yeah, I'll agree to an interpretation. Senator, that's all I can do. He simply points in the rules and draws conclusions from them. It is strange, however, that they were. Councilmen speaking this matter should not agree with this interpretation. The senator, or they actually trust themselves at least not to report it. But with regard to the question of fishing, fishing, fishing, and the EEA contract, it is the case taken up by the parties. However, for example, a very intimate question can be answered. Senator. Close, I say, because it's about energy issues. It even deals with this third energy package and turns to natural gas. You see, Iceland has received an exception to natural gas from this energy package, does not have gas lines from Iceland to Europe, and Iceland is not exporting gas. Of course, the solution to the electricity is obvious. It's not a sea cable, we don't export electricity. So why don't we get out of it in the same way as we do with the gas? Unless you think there will be a change in Iceland and it will be linked and can begin to export pure renewable energy and sell to the European Union as part of the huge aim of getting more energy, and especially renewable energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u34	Mr. President. Now, I just want to take a look at these warnings and how they seem to be introduced from the European Economic Area Convention and the article I referred to earlier, which is 7. Gr., and in fact, more articles are involved. But then I come to the joint decision of the EEA committee that we have discussed here, it is the real basis for providing a well-declared Congress proposal. Then I am included, judging, Regulation No. 014/2009 printed in Icelandic. In the conclusion of the joint decision made by the EEA Committee it is spoken of by the Icelandic and Norwegian text of regulations, as it appears here, and is the letter of the Parliament's resolution to be valid. In the case of the joint EEA committee it is actually taking the European legislation, the third energy package, from the European Union, and enforcing cooperation on the European Economic Area. It may not be surprising that the joint EEA Commission says that they will make their decision on the European Economic Convention (EEC) in particular 98th paragraph - I intend to connect with that article, by permission of the President: The agreement can be added, as well as in the books 117, 9◯11, 19◯27, 30◯32, 37, 39, 41, and 47, as appropriate, by decision made by the joint EEA committee in accordance with 93. Why? mg), 99, 100, 102, and 103. gt. Then comes the following: The European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 of July 13, 2009, to establish the energy market's Cooperative Management Board's Cooperative Management Board. - It's ACER, it has to be cashed into the contract. This is done by means of these regulations. Since wording changes and there is talk of the EFTA and the EEA, it is specifically determined what needs to be changed into this European legislation. This is in the document, which is the joint decision of the EEA Committee. Once this joint decision has been made by the EEA Committee, the completed document will look like this - Regulation. [[A senator waving a blade.]] Here we look at how the process is. For judgment: If this were set up as an extension, we would, for example, be put in. to present the authority to use or processing of energy resources, regardless of how it would be, would be included in the Annex to the European Economic Area Convention in the same way as it does for the Icelanders where we first warned about the water supply and fishing our resources. There you can find, in the European Economic Area Convention, Section 4, Annex 1. ▪ Despite 40th par. The agreement and the content of this Annex is permitted to continue using the seas in force to sign the foreign rights of property and/or possession rights of non-fished persons in Iceland. These seas should not prevent the investment of foreign citizens or citizens who do not have legal homes in Iceland, who are only indirectly involved in fishing or fishing. However, national authorities have the right to commit enterprises that have been bought in part or in part by foreign or state citizens who do not have legal homes in Iceland to dispose of investments in fish industry or in fishing vessels. [[The president calls.]] This is indeed a time for the free flow. But this is what it looks like after it's been introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u35	Mr. President. It's admirable how you're doing. A senator can identify this text and draw sound conclusions from it. It would be wish for the great work to be done. A senator would have been worked by the government before the matter was resolved. This is very illuminating, and of course another example of the importance of this discussion. That's right, as a matter of course. According to a senator, European legislation is being adopted and introduced into the European Economic Area Convention, in this case legislation from 2009, which has been used in the European Union for ten years. There is experience there as to what it means to adopt these laws, especially in terms of what is right. A senator explained to us earlier on the full induction process that the role of the ACER, this common energy agency, will be very rich in this country. In fact, it is remarkable that relatively few discussions have been made about that fact. As a result, I wanted to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether he believes that the induction of this principle changes in the basic nature of the energy agency, which would be subject to an invitation from the ACER. It is not for good reason that I ask, Mr. President, for some executives, some of them, have allowed themselves to claim that this is really a slight change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. If I understood the inquiry correctly, the question is, Will the induction change the role of the Power Institute? Do you understand?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u38	- Yes, she sure will. There is a basis for this introduction to the establishment of the Icelandic government of a surveillance agency - it is called, not Power Institute in the Agency, but a surveillance agency - which would be the source of the Power Institute because it is comparable to a member of the country to be received. We see evidence that the authorities feel that they are in the best interests of this by changing the environment of the Power Agency, taking the first steps in this induction, to form with this increased budget to be set up for the Power Agency. The energy agency will remain after this induction, and must be, that monitoring authority. Even if the government might desire to do so, it would actually be a violation of the induction process. It would be necessary on the part of the European Union that we would make the necessary changes to the legislation so that Power Institute would become the independent control authority that it is not the same as the legislation today. However, it must be replaced by the European Commission so that it is completely independent, so that it can serve its role in the European Union and ESA or the European Economic Area Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u39	Mr. President. Yes, it is surprising that the government gives a bill about the changes in the nature of the Power Institute, which, as it puts it, is now no longer under democratic authority in Iceland. However, it is not entirely independent; it will be subject to incorrigibly foreign authority. But I understood why. A senator correctly stated that whatever brings up this program on the Power Institute, and however far as it alone may go, on the day, after the induction of the third energy package, that Power Institute is not equipped to carry out its role according to the third energy package, a role as any kind of subsystem of ACER, could require negotiations and that the Icelandic government would have further changes in the nature of the Power Institute to ensure that it played this role? What I mean with this question, Mr. President, is that it may well be that the Power Institute bill, as it seems now, is enough to give her this role, in line with the third energy package. However, if there is a lack of a problem in these matters, it is not a requirement for the Icelandic government to make further adjustments in the laws needed for the Agency to perform this role.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u40	Mr. President. Unfortunately, as the energy agency's environment is today it doesn't meet the rules of Directive 72/2009, which I have here in front of me. This stipulates the obligation and authority of the government. Thirty-five. IX. The section on national monitoring states that each Member State should mention one national surveillance authority. It discusses planning of systems, market openings and mutuality, appeals and the independence of the government. It is, in fact, the strength that the Power Institute should be placed. It's part of the directive. We'll see the changes in the laws here if this is going to be introduced into this thing. After all, the Power Institute law will appear in relation to this document. That's how it looks to me, it's all happening. This is normal because the European Union has a declared objective, the European Union knows exactly what it wants and where it wants to go, and although there are some minor obstacles to living up to. Hence, it is said to remove barriers, political or commercial, whatever they may be. That's the very part of this institution, but it has to be independent of the political whims at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u41	Mr. President. I was going to calm down a point similar to the previous one. Thank you. paritaprevir For his sake, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson was an excellent review of the rules of ACER and the EFTA Monitoring Institute. I was wondering about the two supporting systems and energy monitoring agencies, as this is thought to follow the implementation of the energy directive No. Three, which we are talking about right now. There are regulations in the Regulation, in particular 713, that have been found largely in which ACER's extraordinary impact is on the ESA's decisions, which is the institution built on the two supporting systems, which is the basis under exactly the European economy and our living conditions there. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator on this patrol and the Power Institute and its role in this. There is now a bill about changes in the activities of the Power Agency. It's done as much as possible regardless of the Minister's authority here in Iceland. Based on the claims of the directors in this case, they are going to introduce it, but they still keep these facts outside the introduction, i.e. what could be a threat to the constitution problem. What, then, is the position of the Power Agency in this regard? [[The president calls.]] Is she in thin air?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In this regard, if it's the real will of any man I seem to be, at least. On the basis of the wording, they want to introduce the third energy package, but they want to put in advance how far you can go in power. We want to keep controlling the resources. We'd like to continue the practicality. We'd like to continue custody. If that is the case, I have to say that the perfect harmony is in this room, that people really want to take less steps than a full supply of a three-pack of energy. But if it is to do so by the methods described here, it will be so that he will be fully introduced, the rule we intended to take into account this which I mentioned earlier will not be held, and we will be reproved that we have misinvolved in the wrong way if an issue arises. Why do I say, "Why can't you just sit down and look at it better?" How can it be that even well - respected scholars find out that there is a legal means that does not depend on uncertainty and may be possible? But we choose the other way. Is it not, then, more honest to say: We want to join the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thordddsson for his meditation I was asking about the position of the Power Institute when the design is completed. This is where the Energy Agency has a role as a monitoring agency in Iceland according to this European Commission directive. When you look at the Power Institute bill, you can see in part that the Energy Agency will still be under the Icelandic Minister, but in part it has a specific monitoring obligation to follow the European Union's energy directive, i.e. a certain feature, perhaps before noon, but after noon he will be assigned to the office of the Icelandic Minister. My question was, would they be out of the air before noon? If the directive is implemented only with notice or with any requirement for postponement that it would apply later or so, do they look at themselves in front of noon? It's a pleasure to see what's happened. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér, attended the Assembly Hall and listened to these questions. [[Up front.]] I hope he learns something from this and learns some lesson, and hopefully he gets involved in the discussion. That would be the best, would it? But have a why. A senator will answer any questions as to what kind of staff position and director of the Power Institute will be after implementing these rules? Since the Power Institute is entrusted with a measure of responsibility by the European Union's energy directive, regardless of the Minister, while at the same time working under the Minister, and if they need to divide the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u44	Mr. President. It's an interesting procedure, and I apologize for not quite reaching the point of the previous answer. It may be possible that for a time, people look into date and then perform surveillance duties for ESAs or cooperate with other national monitoring authorities under ESAs. It may well be. But the other thing, I know with the EEA and the EFTA countries, it's official. By permission of the President, the opinion of the most widely referred scholars is here, including the Regulation. is a formal power to make legal binding decisions on the basis of cross-border structures. The Council has placed in the hands of ESAs. ACER still has a lot to say about the decisions that ESAs take on the basis of the Regulation. Such determinations should therefore be made on the basis of ACER sources. It comes from the European Union to the EFTA Monitoring Agency on its own or on the request of ESA. If the ESAs aren't absolutely sure how to do it, then they can ask for it, otherwise it just comes to ACER. If a request for a review of the decision is made, the ESA shall send this request to the ACER, and it shall be considered by ACER to prepare a new schedule for ESA, which would provide a comparable basis for the new ESA decision. The decision is of particular interest that the treatment of the case is never reverse in this regard, i.e. that ESA agree that a decision proposed by the ACER. Therefore, the effect of ACER is greater than that of ESAs in this respect. And the two pillars of the system are, of course, underneath. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u45	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has left the conference hall because I planned on this talk to go even further into the source of a highly interesting form of electricity, which has been asked many times. Many wonder how we feel about the fact that electricity used in big companies is a large part of coal - processing plants or nuclear plants. That's very interesting. So on November 7, I sent in an inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of travel, industrial and innovation, for sale of these responsibilities, for both quantity and prices and who sold and who bought and then forged the impact of that sale, what possible effects this sale might have. Very interesting and, of course, is related to this matter, especially the use of electrical energy and the potential for increasing electricity to consumers in Iceland. This is closely linked to future future changes. Closed. I asked how many of the responsibilities of electrical energy were sold. The minister in part answered how many responsibilities were sold within the country and how many responsibilities were sold abroad. The answer was in teravatics, but 1 hour is the same as 1,000 giga hours, but 1 gigarant hour is the same as 1,000 megahours. So it takes a million megahours to make 1 hour, to put the answer in a context. In answer to a minister who received me at the end of April last year - it took the highest. A minister nearly six months to answer that request, so it must have been a success - says that in 2017, 14.8 terawatt hours were sold abroad, which reported from Iceland to foreign parties while in Iceland were sold 3.6. This has increased rapidly over the last few years. Extensive responsibilities sold abroad during 2016 were 13.1. The year before that was 5.4 terava hours, which has increased rapidly over the past few years. This is based on the information of the Power Agency. We were discussing Power Institute earlier, so they have a wide range of fields of activity. But sales of national responsibilities are much smaller and have increased much less, from 1.1 terava hours 2015 to 3.6 terawatts 2017. The minister's response indicates that there is no official information, as it puts it, about the overall value of the sold originated value of Icelandic energy companies, not total value. To estimate the overall value, the minister's response is that last year 2018, the overall sale of these responsibilities is estimated to be a token of some kind that the electricity we use comes from renewable sources, which may not be the case. But you can have proof that you have paid to prove that you use such energy. In 2018, however, the Icelandic electric companies, which say, 800,850 million for sale on these responsibilities, are making significant financial contributions, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason speaking well. Some have described this constant lettering system in terms of sources of pure energy in which the energy systems of various countries are in, in their adaptation process to the final objective of EU energy policy, i.e. that all the energy of the relationship goes into one pot that is then sold back. It was interesting to hear that summary. I don't remember hearing that kind of conversation and acting like a dog. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason did the right thing. It is obvious that there are significant financial benefits, for according to the knowledge I have on this system, energy companies are not spent on the amount of money they have earned so far. In other words, the system that has been developing and trudging lately is a kind of whale crisis for the energy companies. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason whether I'm wrong in describing this experience, that is, in fact, the energy systems of the European Union's countries in semi-fiction camps or training camps for the next step in the EU target, i.e. that the energy all goes into one pot, that there has been a numbing of human and corporate perception to the true origin of energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór, the Bergeth Ólason for the question. What I have and was interested in knowing about the electrical price. I'm going to review it in the next talk, and maybe it'll take longer because the answer is thorough, although that may not be much of a matter, compared to what I was fishing for. But let it go. I'm gonna go over this. What I was interested in was the electrical price. How does this affect the future electrical prices? Of course, if the energy companies here sell these original responsibilities and responsibilities for Icelandic corporations, they have become unclean because they have sold away the clean source of their energy use, so if they are competing with foreign large companies, which may produce the same products that are imagined, their competition may not be effective. For what? Because their customers naturally ask, "Where did you get your electricity from? I'm just getting it out of wonderful water and it's very clean and here's the certificate, so go ahead. Then they ask the Icelandic people: Where do you get your energy from? Then they have no proof of where the power came from. What, then, do they have to do, the Icelandic people who are competing with foreign parties, who have already bought this certificate of origin? Of course, they need to buy it too. What does that mean? Increase power prices. Isn't that obvious? I will discuss this further in the next talk. There's plenty to take. This is a very interesting subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. In itself, the cost of this can only be said to the clients of the energy companies. It's just like other business expenses. I think it must be clear to everyone. But saying that then this must be a concern for us Icelanders who know that all energy production that matters here in Iceland is based on renewable energy production. It has been said that this is the world's most environmentally friendly aluminum and so forth. Now we are in that position, with increasing emphasis on green impacts on the production of the world's enterprises, that the competition will slip us a little, as suddenly, e.g. The plant in Straumsvík, an example of randomity, all of a sudden, according to all witnesses, began to produce aluminiums of nuclear energy, coal and other more contaminated energy sources, instead of producing the greenest aluminium in the world, so to speak. When it becomes the new line, I'm afraid that the competitive prelude that the Icelandic company has had on the basis of pure energy will be ebbed out. [[The president calls.]] How does this look to you? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u49	Thank you. A senator for the questions. This is a very interesting subject and is strongly related to the subject discussed here. The idea is good, and the point is good. The purpose, of course, is that energy manufacturers in the European Union are more likely to produce and sell renewable energy from renewable sources. This is obvious because they get the higher price for it, and also because consumers and customers are seeking to buy something that is produced in a way but not in a dirty way, if I may say so, Mr. President. So this is very interesting. But where does it lead in Iceland that has clean energy if the companies see the benefits of selling these responsibilities abroad because the demand is great and they get high prices for it? The Icelandic companies, which may be competing with foreign parties, as mentioned earlier, will then have to pay these responsibilities of expensive competition because prices will rise. In my next talk, I will see how much money is paid for every minute of my life. How does that have anything to do with us in Iceland? What happens then? Is it possible that we are talking about subsidies? That's interesting, because the income grows in your left hand, and we're going to do the right thing. What do the European Union's competitive rules say about such conduct? That's where we're very close to the third energy package directive. Very close. If we're going to sell electricity out of the country at any future time, the price may be higher here. So are we talking about subsidies to make it up to consumers? [[The president calls.]] What, then, do the European Union's competitive rules say about this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u50	Butts are over. The president makes it interesting that soon the clock will be short in about 15 minutes to two. Last night is young, Icelandic, all-nighted. In any case, events lie ahead of landmarks. That's the 30th question of the senator. To answer that question, what do you think? U.S. Marshal Riv. This is the 30th speech we have called the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u51	Mr. President. Thanks for that. I thought I'd get a piece of tertus here in the pit, I'll leave it alone. It has been said that our young people may not be very interested in the language we address here despite the fact that they are the ones who come to bear the weight of what we now decide. But there are happy exceptions. A young woman, Hildur Sulf Thorarensen, wrote a brief article in the Morning newspaper that week covering the current record. A third energy pack has been discussed since early April, and she feels that there has been one sign of the discussion, i.e. How complicated it is. The rules are tangled, the debate goes south, and the frags are snarled. I'm sure it was the most in the beginning. She says, so I witness now only to this young woman, by permission of the president: ▪ How should ordinary people come to understand this matter that seems to be an issue of great interest for the nation? It points out that in the discussion it may have been a risk that land activation would be divided and/or voluntarily divided and that in the context of the view that land activation is an enormously important treasure and that it has paid 11 billion dollars in income to the nation 2017. We now see the need for land activation to return real estate. Hildur Sif also says, with president's permission: When we also consider that in Iceland we have one of the lowest energy prices in the world, it is reasonable to wonder why the energy subs are being rocking. We earn a lot of land resurgence, which is all we can afford in our country. We pay low energy prices. What reason do we have to generate an energy package that is unlikely to benefit us Icelanders? She goes on saying: The government has used a number of reasons for its conduct. These include the reasons why the energy package doesn't matter, that the EEA contract will upset if we refuse to do so, that we are late. As mentioned in the discussion, especially by the government itself, Iceland is an unplugged European energy market. So if the energy package is not important to us, it should not be relevant to the European Union but, therefore, it should be easily introduced. Then she quotes Stefánsson, who has often been quoted, and has previously said that he is not worried that rejecting the energy package will cause EEA to upset. Of course, as it points out, this can have difficult political consequences for us. That's right. But then it says here, and this may be the point, with the permission of a president: ▪ Meeting is a good word. Everyone should be aware that the energy package has not been reached by an agreement. The people are unhappy. There have been protests. A group working to introduce the energy package and to warn people of the consequences of its induction has been established. Ununity is at the General Assembly, holding back those who want to drive the case through at a light speed and stamp it and witnesses before the end of the council so that the government can go smiling into the summer vacation. She says here, by permission of the President: ▪ I've been following the discussion carefully, reading a good deal about this complex matter, and in fact, I feel that the conclusion is simple. If it doesn't matter, if we can turn it down and we have a great situation in energy, we're going to have no reason to turn down the energy package. I would not sign an adverse agreement for myself, and I expect the General will not do so on behalf of the people. We are good at energy, why should we wish to make it worse? So many were words. Here was a voice from a group of young people in the country, the people who come to the soup of what we're doing here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She was good because she made me think and her mind wander. I know how I've felt about this. I came in here as a relief officer with a short notice, and in the past discussion, I was indiving directly into this energy package case, using proben. We Middleclassmen got counseling and counseling from specialists. I sat at the table with my companions, and I thought, "Jesús is good. " How are you supposed to put yourself in this? I can only imagine how normal people feel trying to get involved in this big business of interest. Therefore, I believe that it is, of course, the responsibility of the government to introduce it normally so that it can be understood. Although evidence is available on the II Parliamentis website via committees or links, it is difficult to go through it, finding out what is involved, what is the evidence, and how much it is relevant and how much it is. Thus, it is very difficult for ordinary people, someone like me in town, to realize exactly what is being discussed. That's why it's very simple to come here, hanging out that it's just zero, it doesn't matter, everything at the top, let's go through it, so just take over the next one. They may have been trying, and they're trying. Or what would a senator wonder about that? Is it possible that people just didn't get to know what the problem is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u53	Mr. President. At one time, when one energy package was introduced in Iceland, some man I met came and was here at the time, as if it had run through without anyone noticing it. This may be the energy package in which we should have nailed our foot and said, "No, this is not what we want. Because it was the first time that this real transition between distribution and production and that, as a result of a pack No, we were being teased by the middle class because we had introduced some of these ourselves. Two. I always get bored when politicians say that the other and this case is so complicated that people can't be trusted to make a decision or something like that. This case is now being run through in the scapegoat of 62% of the people who do not want this case. Who's to blame if people outside the house don't understand? It's our fault that we're in here. They're the ones who are going to continue driving this case, and they haven't fully identified it. Therefore, we cannot in politics say that some opinion is too complex for the common people. That's rude. We are to examine ourselves. If we cannot explain to the public the matters we are running through the Council, as some say, some say, at the speed of light, really, what these matters are about and why we should do this but not see, then we are not grown. That's why I say yes, and that's why I was so happy to see an article from a young well - educated woman, and I thought it best to bring up the article to a counterweight with all that would be said of you being a mossy man as you are always told and not getting a fresh breath.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, most of those sitting in that hall actually introduced it to people in a very simple way, called a pack of three energy. It's about control of resources. We're turning him down. The matter had been presented by political parties. A number of magazine articles are about this, and interviews testifying to the fact that the officials of the administrations had already introduced these to their own people, the grass root, that is what they are. They had studied this and told the people, "What's the energy package about? This is only the European Union reaching out but now beyond what it has done. Control the resources. What are we going to do about it? Hey, over here and no more. That was how this case had been introduced. The matter had not been introduced by the means I've been standing in here by reading lyrics and quotations of numbers and paragraphs, and no one would listen to it, not an unwise man. But the other is that the subject was already presented on such grounds. On those grounds, the people chose. Then there's the highest. The president here in a speech chair, talking about making the democracy work. The Middle Class is spoken to us as opposed to democracy. There were democratic elections in this country, and people chose - not these. You see, the people didn't choose this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u55	President. It was a thunder talk by reason of reason. A senator, quite true. It has been observed that all the governmental groups have gone behind their last elections. A panel and an independent group each had their agreement that the European Union will not be connected further with energy. VG did not have a special approval, as some people might hear about my speech here tonight, where I quoted earlier. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, an interviewer of VG's opinion in this language, used proben a year ago. The union groups were natural and flamme to, as I have said before, Mr. President, to join the cold arms of the European Union, and to be there. That's where they want to be. But the other three companies, who rule the land, the mergers, the VGs, and the Independence Party, who are now bound together, have joined themselves to one child of divorce, have all gone backward in this matter. All of them. I know they won't accept it, but I think it's the next thing certain - and then what. paritaprevir Árnason, who is now in the hall, and welcome to him, can certainly confirm that the Independence Party did not enter the election in the first, or 18 months ago, under the preordained that three energy packages from the European Union should be introduced and given to foreigners, because, over time, control of the Icelandic energy market. And it is almost certain that left greens were not advertising that they would run the market of Iceland's energy resources after 18 months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I cut by the fact that he said when he was discussing a pack of energy one and two, they slipped through here. Then we will enjoy reviewing a talk from this time, January 30, 2003. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur is on the platform and here, by permission of the President, says: ▪ It was not taken, and here they voted with this more and less asleep, apparently. In time, some people have woke up to an evil dream and started asking: "Wait, why didn't Iceland just get a release from this? ... I don't think the facts have been tested in this regard. ◯ Here's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who gave one of his best talks, has, at the very least, given many of the good talks here, ended up with a good speaker. But one of his best talks comes from the time he was a firm opponent of a energy package one and two. It was a good time to think about it because of what happened. That's exactly what a senator did. It seems to have slipped through. That's exactly what the executives are trying to do here, trying to drive it through, trusting that the senators are more and less asleep. That's why they were completely surprised, I think the Central Party would have reacted to this and seen what mismanagement would be for the nation to produce a pack of three. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. A Senator - and Congratulations on a Sermon on the Mount No. 30 of this class, well spoken - it would be nice to hear your opinion of this conversion, e.g. for the left green, on this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's another senator here, huh? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. I'd love to have him on the discussion. Maybe he could just say the same thing about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u57	Wait a minute. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline. There is no danger but that it allows time for a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u58	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir For Birgir, when I pointed my words to the point of the day, Þórarinsson was present earlier this evening. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. He did not do so well to come up here and explain to us why he so thoroughly changed his mind in 12 months, as did his other associates in the left movement, who have walked so close to someone else's well. The former member of the Party, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, now calls the party the movement ▪ offering, saying: "You can't take everything else because they're neither left nor green anymore. This is by the fusion of the Independence Party that I've described here before and that naturally, you lose your party, as you say. I wish I knew. A senator, what has led to this conversion. Actually, there are just two, three, four, ten reasons behind me. Other than that, I don't completely understand what this is. In the case of the left green, there have been talks here, as I have said before in this discussion, e.g. in the first round. by senators of the left green, which I thought I wouldn't live to hear. There's talks that could have worked out on the opening day of the Independence Party meeting every day. That's something that's important to the politicians. I, however, see no reasonable reason, and I do not usually see any reason for this conversion that could make land and nation well. I can't see that. I see about ten reasons behind me that are possible. I don't see other reasons quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker and the counter. I have to say what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér's complimentary that he, one of the few members of the council and the members of this pack of three energy, has observed a conference. He can keep it. Therefore, if he had participated in the discussion with us and answered the questions we have raised, and are trying to distinguish ourselves between us, why the left green have changed our mind in this matter. There's something else I would have really wanted to hear about from what happened. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson Kolbeinn Proppér, which is the environmental element in this matter. Now the left green have spread out to be an environmental class, and they are. If so, ask: Why are they not concerned that this matter will be of interest to those who are taking on increased initiatives? We're paying a street to sell energy out of the country, the pure energy we have. That means natural one, there will be more interest in activation. We're already seeing it, so this is a very important point in my mind, and it's strange, for example. The secretary of the environment should not have entered this discussion. It would be nice to have a point of view. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund to see if she's not crying, this absence of environmental minister in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u60	Mr. President. I'll take my heart to compliment you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. Like what? paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson said that he's been here for quite a while and so long that we should, at this moment, have convinced him that he's supposed to be with us and turn this package down. Then there's another reason why here in the hall is newly-born Árnason Arnamson, a young, exhilarating provincial senator. Because it is now that day, it is best to congratulate him on the 90th anniversary of the Independence Party. On the other hand, I cannot congratulate independents on the package they receive from their council group, a pack of three, for a 90 - year birthday birthday. Who would have thought that the Independence Party themselves, who has been fighting for all his history of independence and activity, would fall through some kind of crisis and make it their own? The head of the Middle Party, what? paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson is clear, and he sometimes sees things ahead of others. I was at a meeting with him and others earlier this year or whether it was in the fall, and then he said, with President permission: The suicide party today has become like the Continental ten years ago. Then he was talking about his views. Well, I'd love to if it wasn't all happening. Besides, I didn't expect to live to see the union of an independent party and the left green. I didn't expect to see the left green market for Iceland's resources. Also, I did not expect to see the Independence Party participate in the Marxic Health Organization. [[The president calls.]] As long as you live, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u61	Same amount as quality...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u62	Mr. President. I've been giving talks on the most diverse issues related to this third energy package, and it's a little boring to always be putting off a discussion about these issues, but there's so much going on in the meantime. Here tonight and before today, we have heard new information, data have been introduced to us who had not been part of this discussion before, which makes it necessary that I still have to postpone a discussion about some of the subjects I had been discussing, all of which are connected to this third energy package. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson is one of those who have presented new major factors, including Enlarged production here, showing that if this third energy package is approved, we are accepting the total third energy package as it appeared in 2017. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Þorvaldsson Thorðddsson said just before then that no one would listen to his intelligent list. I hope this isn't right, because I've been following with great interest and actually been fascinated by his conduct here and to the mind has created a picture of a Hollywood film with a lawyer struggling with superpower power, but by looking into the evidence, by looking into the evidence, by using his intelligence to lead out the true conclusion, the victory has finally. In view of how this discussion has developed, and we better figure out the overall picture, I'm going to talk out a little bit of the picture right now. I think it's time we start talking about the effects of the third energy package as they'll be if it's created. For the time being, we can stop thinking about the absence of a warning, we can focus on the effects of the energy package once it is under way, if and hopefully not, it is under construction. I have received considerable encouragement from people in my district, especially people who have been in the labor movement for a long time and who had long learned the basics of this energy package and its effects, to talk about the effects to the public, the overall effects of the package induction. I'm going to do this talk, and I'm going to try to make it a little better. In fact, I had discussed compared with the Norwegian report on the effects of the energy package in that country where the induction would result in significant damage to rural areas, especially the national community in Norway, tens of thousands of jobs would be lost, and substantial income of rural communities and countries in that country. And I have reasoned that the impact in Iceland would be relatively significantly higher. But what does this mean for the everyday lives of people in Iceland if that energy package comes through? That means a low price. This means that people will lose their jobs that would otherwise have been done. This means that jobs that would otherwise not have occurred. It means that rural society will lose income, and I also think the state will lose income. This means reverse development in rural areas, for energy has been a fundamental factor in maintaining and strengthening the inhabited earth around the country. In other words, Mr. President, the effect will be negative, so that in all matters of which we politicians should be most concerned. For good reason, then, the members of the Central Party and I believe that there are reasons to continue to discuss this matter and to hope that the members of Congress, and even more members, will be prepared to reconsider the matter, at least. notice again, even to hear some of the things that we have had in this discussion, for this is not a matter to go through at night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason was a great man for his speech. It was interesting for many reasons. But as for my comments in the Sermon on the Mount earlier this evening, I recall that my words were here - it is recorded and will be written after me, but I may not remember quite correctly, but I think I used the expression that no ordinary man would deny to listen to such an uninformed thing. But comfort is what it is. A senator is that he is not an ordinary man, and he has shown this and has proved many opportunities when it comes to politics and even politics. in this discussion in which he has launched the ball and understands exactly where it is going when perhaps more complex matters are used and has actually raised extremely important questions to those who have wanted to continue driving the case, as shown. What I want to do is to get in there. The senator remains on the effects of a pack of three energy. They've been described here as zero, that this is a complete zero, has no effect, which is the opposite to that. The speaker described his speech. How does it get out of here? A senator to that conclusion? Maybe you need to look at a bigger picture, but you just show up in a pack of three? Is there anything more to follow, like when an energy package came with a two energy package and a pack of two comes with an energy package three, and the evidence for accepting a pack of three is that we were so successful in implementing a two-pack of energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u64	Mr. President. I've never claimed that I was completely normal in such a way that I'll agree with this definition. Senator. You see, though, things need to be looked at in context. The overall effect of the induction of this third pack of energy needs to be examined, but the result should also be considered. Like what? In fact, a senator only stated his own history when the government claims that we have to introduce this third energy package because the first energy directive was introduced and the other electrical directives and this will lead to it, and then we'll add that even if we're not working on it, we're upset by the EEA. So that we can imagine whether this reasoning will not be used against the Icelandic government if they think of opposing the fourth energy package after this induction. And speaking of the fourth energy package. This is now one of the issues we have been considering in this discussion, since it has not been identified in the context of the third energy package, which is, of course, amazing because the European Union sets it up as a direct sequel, a natural consequence of the third. It goes quite far, this fourth energy package, as far as we can reach it, but incomprehensible that the Icelandic government should expect the General approval of the third energy package on the basis of the first and second but to keep the Council from the fourth energy package, which, according to their own reasoning, is a direct continuation. Then we'll hear that a few months ago, we've had a presentation on the fourth energy pack for some partners in town, for organizations and individuals, but we're here at the council to accept the third energy package and at night, if ever. The president is given his will, which he will not achieve, cannot find out what is contained in the fourth energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, was deeply moved by the answer. We discussed earlier tonight whether it was wrong to introduce to the public a three - pack of energy in human language, and this has to do with a direct speech. A senator, introduce to the people what's in a pack of three energy. I argued that it had actually been presented in a very simple way by the category of elections, that in a pack of three sources of power, and this incessant need of the European Union, it was actually introduced to more and more and more into the domains of the sovereign states, and to include the samurai method of authority and involvement in energy resources and their provision. The people chose and the democracy ruled, as I went in. Would it not be wise for men to tell the truth about it, and then the political parties as such, what is involved in a pack of four and even no energy? five that's under construction? So people are fully informed whether any political parties at the Council today will continue to submit to the European Union's invitations and stand on their feet as if they wanted to decorate themselves on merry days, or are they already trying to get up with what they have given in their policy and what policy groups have suggested in years and decades?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u66	Mr. President. Yes, I can agree with this conclusion. She's right. This is all part of the system's function, so to speak, where the gears always turn in the same direction but not back. But this has been discussed before. There was another man who had described the same concern and made it very clear and clearly over a year ago, and it was the chairman of the Independence Party, the highest. The minister of finance, who interviewed Britain's Daily Telegraph and here in the Allegorium's symposium, put things in a very similar way. A senator and warned of the European Union's greed for power, especially in energy matters. The occasion was the third energy pack. Therefore, I still hope that the members of the Independence Party will now, on the birthday of that party, the members of the Party will be fully convinced that, like others, may be desirable in this matter, to follow the best of their policy, things such as independence policy, i.e. Protecting the independence of the land. Of course, the same can be said of the other categories of government. Over the years, they have had very strong national nerves and have appreciated the importance of sovereignty. I hope, of course, that their supporters will do the same, using their members to remove this incomprehensible decision to implement the EU's third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson gave the speech. I think you're right about what you're eating. A senator that now is the time in the discussion that we must stress the real situation that the third energy package will be introduced. I think we should even take the step further and try to set up a stage view of the situation that will be up here at the end of this country's link with a sea cable, since, of course, all the guards are down, under the recommendation of the foreign minister, and Iceland is fully under the overnational surveillance authority of the ACER Institute. I criticized it here today during the time of the highest. A minister of foreign affairs kept us informed that these staged films had not been removed, for the political climate quickly set in. I'm telling you, we could find ourselves in a situation where sea cables for power transport between countries will be connected to this country within not very long time. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to develop a picture of what the situation will be, what part of energy markets will be, and the management of energy markets will then be subject to the monitoring and direct effects of this over-the-national organisation. I want to hear what's going on. A senator to see if it is not necessary because governments do not take the initiative to set up this scene. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u68	Mr. President. I believe I have every reason to set up this scene, i.e. The scene as it will already be if a cable came. This is because the energy package is designed to contribute to the sea cable repair and, as a result, it is only natural to examine its effect in the light of its effect. It is enough to include the director of national activation, which has made much of the priority of the company's enterprise and is now a major way of speaking about the introduction of a third energy package. There is also reason to remember, talking about the system's mechanism of action, that it seems to be working, very hard to see that this transpiration is taking place. And with the induction of the third energy package, they get weapons to push them into action. In fact, when there are very extensive changes in the third energy package, which are hard to see that the government is going to resist the introduction of the third energy package, on the grounds that it is a normal continuation of what has happened before. These changes are notably intended to have the authority of the former ACER institution to force a link between countries, and specifically stated that it should be looked forward to connecting so-called isolated areas, including islands. I think, in view of what has been presented in the discussion until now, it is good reason for us to discuss the matter from the position that has come up when the energy package has concluded that Iceland is linked by an ocean cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer was Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I think this is a thing that we have to take in one way or another, the senators who are actually involved in discussing the effects of the so-called third energy package, because this role has the government, with the highest power. Secretary of state, neglected entirely. Of course, it is unannounced that this so-called third energy package is required to be introduced in accordance with the rise of the minister of foreign countries, but all discussion of a real effect after the country is connected, to be postponed until the time when the connection becomes real. They push in front of the administrative agendas and plan to cross that bridge when they get to it, as with the tip of the bill of the first Icesave deal. I don't think it's acceptable to be placed in a position that put the matter on the assembly line and into a single-way terminal where the conclusion cannot go in many directions, without setting up a full pattern of how the situation will end. I was surprised to learn that. The minister of the State was to avoid giving up this point today, and he was quick to comment very lightly on the question related. It caused me to understand the situation, so in the Ministry, there would have been no stage shots that these were drawn up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u70	Mr. President. I hope the President doesn't take it badly, but I can't resist first. A senator made this comparison with the payment crew so-called in the Icezave debate, to mention that there's something else, and, in fact, quite a number, which is similar to these issues. Now it may not be right to ask questions because of reason. A senator cannot come back to the straight following, but perhaps he can answer that in a talk later. Mano. A senator, e.g. as I think it was called the Emorandum of Understanding, which was supposed to be some kind of common understanding in Britain and the Netherlands, in Iceland, perhaps beyond, that it would be all right? Undeniably, something like a common sense. Secretary of state and energy of the European Union, good if it wasn't just called memorandum of understatement too. And then there were the warnings. Mano. A senator according to the decision made by the General to make one - side notice of the Icesave deal as soon as it approved him? In fact, I thought it would be very good for the Council to give these warnings, for you knew that they would be ignored, that they would not be accepted. Unfortunately, the same is true of warnings in this energy package. They don't matter. And, actually, there is a why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson had explained this in his most basic form, although he had to look in originals and dates and other statements to confirm. He simply explains that if the third energy package is approved by the energy package as it appears in 2017, the joint EEA committee will be long before the highest level. A minister of foreign affairs or someone else thought of making the praiseworthy warning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u71	A respectable president. In view of the second response, why? Gunnlaugsson Just in this case, I am forced to change some of the points of my speech. In the context of the parts, I would like to introduce what was discussed in the comments presented here by the senator before my discussion. It seems so pleasant, when the Icesave case is reviewed, that I remember a common memo that was designed to frame our precise position in the case, called the Memorandum of Understanding, and also, quite well, remember the warnings of the one side which were made here at the General Assembly in connection with the beginning of the Council of the matter. It is most noticeable that, on the basis of that warning, nothing was done, and if I remember correctly, they just slipped into the sand on the ground of a bill. Hv. A senator may correct me if I am mistaken, but I think it was that way in that the British respected the warning in exactly the same way as you suspect that the European Union will respect the local warnings of the Red Sea River, so I think, what to say, is predictable in these matters. But only to this Memorandum of Understanding, who said a memo on common understanding. In connection with Icesave at the time, this memo had in part to ensure our position and to stress that these developers or our data providers in these talks would have an understanding of Iceland's unprecedented position. What comes during the day of testing? On the day it appeared that the memo, this so - called Memorandum of Understanding, appeared to be primarily used as a stretch of the Icelandic agent when the common understanding was basically the common understanding of the Icelandic interests in the matter, which, on the length of chapters, seemed to have no objection. So I think, in many ways, there are similar scenes in this energy package. There is no indication that, considering how the European Union has taken a hard look at the Norwegian warning in this case, where there has been no response for over 14 months, the response to one - sided warnings from Iceland will be different from the response to the North and the British and Dutch response to the one - sided warnings in the Icesave case ten years ago. I don't think we should approach this case with childlike sincerity, and trust this to be all right, and that it's the best thing to do, and that we should just bring it in as far as we're concerned, we can face some of the more important issues, such as sexual autonomy and some of the things that are waiting for us on the government's list of interest. I think we've got plenty of time to do this. We're getting unlimited, apparently, extra meetings, overnight meetings, at President's invitation, Saturday meetings. I think we'll just dissect this, try to get to the bottom of this so that we can, at any rate, be prepared with our voters and say: "We tried to show the right thing in this material, so that people don't move asleep with some childish sincerity and credulity that the home-made defences would have something important, and that all the world's memos mapped long-term interest in EU energy policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u72	Mr. President. Yes, there seems to be an independent goal at the highest level. The president of a conference record, so that there seems to be some interest in being with the President on this discussion. In fact, I've pointed him out that if he really wants the discussion to end, this may not be the wisest way. Speaking of earlier times and cases that have occurred in the past, I've lived with left men in my position of government and left men having a bit of talk, that's their way. But we never thought it would help to make them talk to 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 in the morning. But anyway, the President has it as he pleases. But to a question why. Senator. First about Icesave and the warnings. In fact, I recall that the British and the Dutch said, as expected, that they would not accept it with a warning, thus destroying the case and that they would have to return to the council. However, it brings to mind the Norwegian warnings of the third energy package because they are a little alike. There the Norwegian government decided that she would give the council or try to get the council to accept the third energy pack in that country with eight warnings. It was the Norwegian Labour Party's condition for allowing the matter to go through. It was done. The matter will be settled in that way. However, for 14 months the European Union has not answered whether it will take place in advance. Counts 'em out. A member of the council is likely to get a positive answer from the European Union? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u73	A respectable president. I can answer it as honestly as I can. I have no idea that the story will be considered, that nothing will be done with the Norse's warning of the European Union. It is somehow that when the European Union's system is as structured as the European Union's governance system, it has not respected the view of 14 months in the second year, there is little chance that there will be any change. And these matters are not made this way by mistake. Without a doubt, they have applied for any response, regularly, and firmly. So I do not believe that the situation of the Norwegian advance will improve from what is now anticipated in the future. Only warnings about Icesave. Of course, it was the right thing to remember. paritaprevir If Gunnlaugsson the Davíð of Gunnledsson said that the British and the Dutch, shaped by the language, only clearly said that nothing would be done with this warning, but the sunset plan was in the law, so that it would have -- I think it was right that the idea was that if the British and the Dutch responses to the first law would be comparable to those of the European Union showing the Norwegian warning, then there would be a sunset law that would actually break down its whole or basically in force.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u74	President. That's right, that's right. A senator, I think, we made it together. This is how it can be beneficial, Mr. President, to have an answer for the sermons. This will help you to get closer to the core of the situation, and it has been very helpful for us to examine the contents of this third energy package. Tonight we have been realizing new things and pointing them out, but not yet we have received a reaction from the supporters of this package. But to finish the Norwegian warning, I'd like to teach you a theory. Senator: The European Union may be waiting for Iceland's Iceland to complete its third energy package to send a message to the Norwegians, if they consider it to be a concern, and say: No, you see now. Now all the countries have been introduced, and as you are supposed to know, there is no such thing as a one-sided prole of EEA regulations? Because if the European Union had responded this way to the Norwegians before Iceland introduced the third energy package, it is expected that the Norwegians would have realized what some of them might do, that their main hope is just that the Iceland should bring it back to the joint EEA committee, where the Norwegians will also have the opportunity to know if something will be taken to their notice, whether or not they will be brought back to the actual reserves. But once all the countries are instigated, this is simply in the laws of all these countries, and nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It's just that it has to be said as it is that this theory has gone. A senator sounds pretty credible. Of course, once the energy package has been adopted in a traditional way, as the wording in the State Department's data, the package as it stood in 2017 has been introduced into Icelandic correctly, and first, the position of the Northmen's warning, to be spoken of as being mild. I think this sounds very unlikely, that this is the European Union given that at some point there will be some reaction to these northern one-sided warnings, waiting for everyone else to complete its induction completely. This reminds me of the last paragraph of the State Department's press release on the common understanding of the EFTA states that the European Union's representative has read a declaration that the trade of countries which were already linked by infrastructure to the transboundary transport of electrical energy would be in complete agitation, but third energy package would not be introduced the fastest in Iceland. I think that this is where we are, in a certain way, the Norwegians, on their own notice, are entering the European Union's single policy block for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u76	V.E.G. President. Now I ask because I don't know, I come in here as a deputy, about the hours of public employees' work and rest. I see that on Iceland's board of directors is talking about rest time. It is now the time to strike the battle on a different day in the House of marathon labor, where members of Congress have not been given rest, have attended a meeting, and have attended committee meetings, followed by a council meeting, and a continuation of it. On the board of directors' Web reports that during the work period of collective agreements there is also a period of rest, i.e. 11 practice a daily minimum rest period and a weekly rest period associated with the daily rest period. There are also exceptions from these minimum rules, e.g. it is permitted to shorten the continuous minimum rest for up to eight hours in an organized shift change. The greeting is about a so-called vacation dish, usually 1.5 hours before a time of rest. [[The president calls.]] A vacation dish is created when an employee is specifically asked to return to work before 11 hours of minimal rest is achieved. [[The president calls.]] I could continue reading, but I would like to go to the top search. President that he will respond as director of the government for how long he will continue a meeting and whether he has studied the rules of the rest period of the general council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u77	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with the viewpoint as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson set out just before, but he would like to put it in the context that this is, of course, unacceptable to the staff of the Generals. I feel sorry for us senators now less than the staff because we choose to be here, and I'd like to remind you in this context that, of course, it's the President of the General Assembly who's directing the program, that's the president who's conducting conferences. Extra meetings, e.g. Thursday and Friday, authorities were authorized to hold an extra meeting at the decision of the Presidency Committee. It wasn't a condition. It is the decision of the president to hold this meeting, and I don't see why the Generals of the Generals are in position to have to stay here day and night to apparently make a decision that the president will decide if he can somehow give up the middle party tired. I think the members of the council who have done a great job in these last days, as usual, deserve better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u78	Mr. President. I hope it's the highest. The president now considered this fabulous staff here at the council and adopted a more reasonable time management. I have previously noted that although large cases have been discussed at the council and that they think they have to discuss them much, we have not before, I just don't think in the history of the council, we have a president who has approached the matter in a way that has tried to hide the discussion by making it go forward in the middle of the night or in the morning or, if a theory arises. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason is right, that an president thinks this is the way, trying to tire men. We Middleclassmen do not tire out talking about this matter in terms of the nation's fundamental interests, as the discussion has helped us to understand the situation better, but the president may take up a more reasonable time management with members of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u79	Mr. President. I agree with members of Congress who have come up here and declared that there is concern about how to handle the staff of the Generals in the discussion that has been conducted here. I don't howl, I did shift work for years, and I think it's nice to be able to talk about something so important until the night. It doesn't affect me. But I'm concerned with the staff of the Generals, Mr. President, and I just want to quote the chairman of one of the largest union members, VR, who recently made this statement. He says, with the permission of a president, here at the General Assembly are totally unacceptable and inhuman conditions, during hours that could hardly be considered acceptable in modern society. [[The president calls.]] Is there anything to add, Mr. President? I think it's urgent to listen to those words. They are indeed spoken at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u80	President. This theater of absurdity has reached new heights here. I think that's what we're talking about. The members of the Central Party who have held the council for the night after day should be ashamed to be draging members of the Generalis, who have had to run after their own whims into this discussion. There's nothing, Mr. President, which better explains why. The members of the Central Party on this matter, but word. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son is here trying to force them to surrender. What sandbox game are we playing, Mr. President? We are at the National Parliament, where we will discuss matters and achieve a democratic will with a vote. It's perfectly in the hands of a dog. The members of the Central Party have to let staff home. It's in their own hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u81	Mr. President. I'll have to make a comment to a word or two. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér, who before me was given a public talk. It is as simple as that. It's not in the hands of members of Congress. Hv. A senator cannot personally arrange or complete a meeting or postpone it. Here, members of the Central Party have massed up solutions, such as. Allowing important things to happen. There's one thing that's very clear, we haven't been here and we've been taking a meeting for another matter. We've been here at night talking about this. Another, at the European Commission's website, it says that it is desirable to account for the Agency's policies on these matters regarding work and rest hours in a staff manual, and I request it, at the highest level. Mr President, to inform us if this manual exists because I don't know about it and if there's a policy in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u82	Mr. President. I always enjoy it as much as I do when people left green get here when others talk about their language and claim to be a bright virgin and a virgin. I always enjoy it because I don't think any political party in Iceland has done more than that category. I'm going to quote a very recent example, that was for the budget debate, not last, but last year, and then a health minister in the middle of the budget said: "It is clear that the left is not in control now because the budget was handled at the right time. Then they bring some sacred things here. It's fun, but it's not credible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u83	A respectable president. It was a total unscrupulous speech. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. Of course, I know that the senator now smiles in his heart knowing that it is not like that. It is absurd to claim that the members of the Central Party operate here. That power is totally in the hands of the President of the General Assembly, with the support of the prime committee, and the responsibility that this will not be given to other matters must be held only where it belongs, with the President of Generals. Let's just talk about things the way they are. I just want it to be said here, because there's a comment on the fact that we're talking about the good staff of the Generalis in this context, that it was the highest. The President of Allallis, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who did so here this morning on Friday morning, so we'll keep all of this together because this will all work out together in these days. [[The president calls.]] So I refer to the Fathers all the maligns that General staff are in a rude manner drawn into this discussion right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u84	It is obvious that there is a great difference between the collective agreements of public employees and the work environment and the conduct of members of Congress. [[Up front.]] The members of the Parliament are subject to the collective agreements of public employees and to those employees, in accordance with the regulations of the public employees. It might also be noted that if you make an effort to shorten your answers and even make a more specific point in your presentation, you might find that the matter has been tore up quite seriously, probably for 70 hours or more, but this discussion could soon be concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u85	Mr. President. Now Pink is shocked. The president's position on this matter is interesting, that he finds it normal to keep men in the regularity of the program, for 42 hours without rest, and that he considers it a natural arrangement for his authority to be seated as president of all members of the council. Anyway. With regard to the pre-warning and induction of the three energy package and the synonym to the one involved in this discussion, I have made the rule in my previous talks, how it works, the Convention on the European Economic Area, the joint decision of the EEA Committee, what it means, the Regulations that follow and the 2009 Directive, no. 72. I would like to give a talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, May 15th, last session. He is one of the senators who has described himself as a skeptic, but he wrote a letter to the highest degree. The Minister and the Ministry for an explanation of how the work is working. In his speech, he says, with the permission of a president: The European Commission concluded its discussion on September 20, 2016, with this review being submitted to the Commission's opinion and monitoring committee from November 2014 and the European Parliament's Employment Committee from October 2014. According to the State Department, the adaptation agreed on by the two support systems of the EEA Convention and is comparable to what is agreed on by the European financial monitoring system. In May 2017, all the states of EFTA within the EEA decided on a administrative notice to implement the three energy directive. Norway and Liechtenstein have already lifted the warning signs. Here it is that Norway lifted the guard's warning but repaired them, that they thought, eight warnings. It is now for the administration court in Norway and a decision in this matter is to expect a 23rd Septemberk. Come on, let's go. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason in his speech: ▪ In our dealings with other nations, like our relationship as individuals, it is so important that we can be consistent so that we act on a project when we take part in molding it, especially when we want to be taken into consideration our individual status, or relative, to a sentence that applies to some guidelines that humans are going to agree with. That it has all that work, especially homework itself, only indicate that there is a full and firm willingness to cooperate with the developer on the basis of the rules that men work together to shape. For this, I'd like to say: The rules of the game are very clear. They are found in the European Economic Area Convention and, depending on these, Iceland has worked until now. But part of the program is to give the government a solemn warning to the Council. On the other hand, if the General decides to refuse to lift the government's orders, the protocol that has been agreed on will continue. It is vital to remember that there seems to have been some misunderstandings. Councilmen. In the conclusion of his talk, there is no comment. Senator: In this regard it is necessary to bear in mind that it is undisputed that Icelanders and Icelandic government, General, have a full and uncircumcised right to refuse to omit administrative warnings regarding the induction of the third energy package as well as other directives as the joint EES committee, where we are seated, have agreed to adopt after the Congress, at least At the General Assembly and then at the Assembly Hall, which, following this discussion, has given green light to implement the directive. It is not the Generals' commission to provide green light to introduce the particular directive. It's the Senate. For Norway, the reduction of governance is more important in Norway in conditions other than in Iceland where their Constitution accounts for a greater proportion of reduction of administrative orders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u86	President. At the end of his talk, there was trouble. A senator with a very interesting point that has been missing in the discussion until now. There is the difference between the removal of administrative warnings in Iceland or Norway. It gives us reason to think that despite the induction of the Norwegian Parliament at the third energy package, in the way the council did, the decision to determine whether the formation is contrary to the Constitution of the United States is now made by the Norwegian Court. This is of interest to many parts of the economy and to all of us obviously, for the introduction must be carried out by all the EFTA countries involved in the European Economic Areas, some of which are available for all and for all, except, of course, when a certain state is given an exception on its terms according to the normal way of the joint EEA committee. This also raises questions about what position the European Commission and the European Commission will have if the Norwegian European Court finds out this fall that the third energy package does not meet the Norwegian constitution, but we will have created the energy package here. For one thing, it is incomprehensible that the Icelandic government is not waiting for the decision of the Norwegian Court. But what position would we be in if the court concluded that the energy package does not pass Norway's constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the conclusion would be that since Norway has actually lifted this administrative notice, even though it would be judged in Norway that it had violated a constitution, it would be viewed as if Iceland had also lifted off, and all the EFTA countries would speak in one voice and would have removed government warnings, since Liechtenstein has made it completely and without comment. And thus, the energy package would be introduced as stated by the rules because comments or conflicts concerning it at that time would be placed under the EFTA Court and he will judge by the European Union's law. So I can see that after such exercises, the induction would simply be wronged than the states that would have misjudged them because they could have been aware of what they were doing. It is hardly a problem with the European Union, although the General Assembly or National Assembly of Independent States decide to violate their own constitution. There is something that the European Union may be responsible for. If I was to draw up a simple picture of this, without knowing it through, I feel that this is in line with the European Economic Area Convention. I hope I have managed to get the case away from me in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u88	Mr. President. That was an interesting point. After hearing such an explanation, the president can hardly say that he is useless. However, this convincing explanation cannot be reasoned. The senator, to the decision of the Icelanders on the induction of the third energy package, defended the mutual interests of these countries, i.e. is the interests of the Icelanders and the Norwegians? If we bring in this pack of energy, like a dog. A senator described that an unconcerned issue in the constitution of this office, that may be added, is Norway's chance to introduce in accordance with its constitution. Therefore, it would be a delight for the Norwegians, whether it be politicians, politicians or other, for Norway to decide whether or not this induction violates the Constitution of the country, but they will miss that opportunity if the Icelandic government introduces the package and countries all, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, will be permanently trapped in the trap, into the cell, or cage that will be started on the European Union's road to energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it might help to intervene in the opinions of their companions, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and the Friðrik of Friðrk's Árni Hirst, as in so many times before. On page 18. 26 says, with permission from the President: The first thing to remember is that the Icelandic Constitution is silent on the privileges of government sales to international institutions. In this regard, she separates from the Constitutions of most other European countries. In particular, the administration and participation of Norway should be referred to the EEA Convention adopted on the basis of a special constitution, found in 115.g. The Norwegian Constitution. This is shown in 1 mg. to ensure international peace and security, etc. The Norwegian Council can agree with a 3/4-part vote... increased part of a vote, not just with simple parts. In fact, in other articles it continues to explain that these are talking about what the Norwegians call an interventional point, or a minor intervention, or something that has a minor impact on a national management order. On that basis, the Norwegians believe that they removed this administrative notice but still put these eight warnings. There was a very strong debate over this matter in Norway, so to speak, and so has it been done, but this is now the case for a administrative court. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator points out that if it happened as I described earlier, the Norwegians have missed the opportunity to correct what might have gone to their induction. And speaking of loyalty then, if it is available, the Icelanders might have an obligation to Norway to wait and see what the decision of a administrative court in Norway will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u90	Mr. President. I thank you for this interesting discussion that has taken place, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Did Davíð, Gunnlaugsson's son, say it's at least We members of the Central Party cannot be accused of repeating things and not answering them because this is a very interesting subject that needs further attention. What the decision of the European Court in Norway will be made is a very interesting matter and how this may affect the cooperation of the Member States and the EEA treaties and the future. I'm glad to see you. Thank you very much. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for bringing this up. I'd like to come in to whatever it's worth if the energy package, i.e. That this body of Congress proposal that we've discussed here would be sent to the European Commission, that would be a covenanting situation that we would achieve. Which would be the right and the right way in view of the growth of the matter. It was shown by the highest. A minister today indirectly admitted that he had spoken with officials, and I specifically asked him if he had examined their reaction if we were to go that way. [[The president calls.]] He did not answer. Doesn't it suggest that it really was just positive? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And taking the case to the EEA joint committee? - Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think everyone is becoming aware that this matter had been decided, how to work, and how to do it quickly, by a flash drive through the council, and by bringing it to its destination with the full input of the third energy package. I don't want the Ministry officials to do, or at least have a minister's will to have arranged for anything else to happen here, except what is a minister's will. And with a dance even. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The President of the Generals who seems to be working here for the Minister or State Department and is helping to commit a violation of the Constitution and drive the case hard and that the few members of Congress who are on their feet for a violation of the Constitution, which is imminent and is specifically accepted in the Congress resolution of the government's decree against Article 21. The constitution - I think it's a rewarding thought. A senator gnarls by this, that there may be a possible driving case through in the power of power. Someone would see it as a mere act of oppression, or perhaps a misuse of power can be used in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is, well thought well, as he is well aware. Thank you. A senator for a highly objective lawsuit in this case on his part has been observed. I think it's a bit of an interesting answer from the highest. Secretary of state today because it's clear, and I'm convinced that this has been felt within the Ministry. Officials have felt how it would be handled if we handled the case for the joint EEA committee. If the conclusion had been that it was taken badly and officials, and those who have the language to do it would have expressed themselves in this way, I think it would be the highest. A minister would have been quick about it, saying from the platform that he was investigating these things and that they were very badly wrong. However, he chooses not to answer the question that indicates that it is, we should tell the politician's way to avoid saying that this is the best way she is and that he has not met any opposition or has received any particular ill reaction in this regard. I think it's very interesting to analyze this and thank you. A senator's contribution in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator later answers. I think that's the case. I'm right next door. A senator that no one has recommended a legal assembly to ensure that this is the legal way. An honest answer to the question of why humans are so alienated from the way we members of the Central Party have proposed. Thus, we have no answers other than political matters, some speculations that this can cause turmoil. This could cause us to be pushed out of the European Economic Area together without a single letter of law to back up when men speak in that way, not alone. No one has ever been able to come here and describe it. They may well cause some political turmoil. I wonder if there was some political turmoil around the Icesave case. Or when we have had to deal with other countries on a global scale? Of course, the resulting political turmoil will be. But finally, the law is the authority. It is amazed at how hard it is to take the road of doubting the ability to resist the law. I'm actually the belief, after studying the evidence, that we're about to go on the road to install a pack of three without any warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u94	Mr. President. I'd like to stop for a second when it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs came to us today. We had repeated reports to the president that we had questions that we wanted to be answered on his part, but unfortunately we were greatly disappointed by the answers made by a minister. He even responded by crying, minimizing the reason. People, some of them, were accused of why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson Essafsson of not reading these relevant opinions, and is not the first time he acts in a way that is completely unacceptable, Mr. President. Actually, I'd like to consider that when a minister presents himself in this way, he's out of control. This reminds me of, as I said earlier tonight, some speech exercise as the highest. A minister must have been in, e.g. in Valhalla. But anyway, I parked here for the highest. A minister of questions that are well - thought - out and justified, but there was no answer. I made a special decision on how he started his speech by evaluating the fine organization in Norway, which is entitled No to the EU and the Norwegian Middle East. V.E.G. A minister in my opinion considered these organizations to be from the General's speakers without any defence. I don't like it, Mr. President. These people have not had any contact with our Orcs like the highest power. Minister wanted the weather up. This is a serious blow for the Secretary of State, and not to improve the communication between Iceland and Norway. I think that's pretty clear, Mr. President, and a strange entrance to the highest level. Minister in this regard. I would also act on what was very interesting to me when I was the highest. Minister began to justify the third energy package, its induction by a total of former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, and Britain's prime minister, David Cameron. That presentation was strange and in the spirit of what was presented here at the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. A minister spent a considerable amount of time in his presence here reading from his point of view, showing that he was not interested in answering any questions asked, which are incontrovertible, and should not be tolerated by the execution of the Commission in this way to the Council. Then I asked the highest. Secretary of the Declarations I have mentioned here, both EFTA and the European Union, on the common understanding of Iceland's position and decisions, whether or not they may be binding on these governments. Why, then, what happens to other lawmakers involved in the contract? They have made no statements in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I did not finish this, Mr. President, and wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now I wasn't at the top of the house. The minister of foreign affairs was here today, but my understanding was that he had come here to explain and explain and have conversations with members of the council. However, even though I was not here in the hall, I was able to observe the discussion with one eye and agree with it as a boy. A senator here says that in a physical sense there was no answer to the questions of members of Congress. Rather, he was reexamined previously prepared and published material in Morfissi style, as it is sometimes called, where the game is often about being more prominent than the person you have in conversation with - has sometimes been referred to as the oratory art of speech, which is not related to the conversation. The art of conversation is the art of politics, to have conversation, to communicate, to study for the benefit of, and to reach a reasonable conclusion. Mr. President. I have to agree with what. A senator tells me that I feel that it is not the intention of this matter but that I am the spirit. I'm sorry. I think there's been a solid argument here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, there is a lack of logic and it is being chosen a course that is not the best way to implement this European Directive. Then you try to go around the world. This is especially evident here today when the highest. Minister came to the Congress Hall. I agree with what. A senator to the highest. A minister spent a lot of time passing through the data available and read to members of the Central Party. However, we had other questions that are important in this, as I mentioned: What did a minister receive when he spoke to officials about perhaps handling the matter before the EEA Committee? Clearly, he admitted to having spoken with these individuals. I couldn't understand him any other way in his answer here. However, he could not tell how the reaction was. This is the key to this. When people are dealing with these committees that are important, they examine the soil. That's the way it is in all such big cases. The soil is first checked, and we need to know what the reaction was. [[The president calls.]] It's an introduction that matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u97	Mr. President. Yeah, it's the thing that surprises me - and I'll say it as soon as I thank you. The senator responds - that these ministers are not the ones to whom the counsel is. I would have understood the interest, the logic even, but not, if for the development of a minister of the revered class, foreign affairs would have been directed at this point. I would have understood that if the United States Minister had guided matters at this point. Both classes are honest in that they want to join the European Union, yet the Union has issued a warning against its declaration that the category wants to keep the resources of national property and control of innovation and provision. In this case, it is the minister of the Independence Party, one of the founders of World Visions, if I recall correctly, and the declared enemy of the European Union, who is acting this way. I think it's very unlikely that he didn't call after the approval of government officials and the most skilled experts, I think he did. What, though, causes him to refuse to give clear answers, and why does he choose not to do the right thing? It's just a little incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u98	Mr. President. Yes, I agree. It's hard to understand why humans are so afraid of taking this legal course. I am quite convinced, however, that if the conclusion had been that, and the highest. A minister indicated that he had spoken to officials, that they were at odds with us as long as we were going this legal way if he had not been here to report it to us for a long time. However, he does not have anything to do with what they've been through, so it seems that once we have a contract right to handle the case for the joint EEA committee, officials cannot resist it. That's what it says. On the other hand, I thought they should have said that this is our legal right and of course and natural, if we chose to go that way, that we would move it. It would've been nice to have it from the highest. Minister. He may not want to share it. They're having something sensitive with them. Therefore, we are not aware of the reason why they refuse to go that way. They indicate that this is because the EEA Convention is in danger. I think it's just a premium. To me, it's clear that there's a premium. There's only a bigger and more interest that drives them to go this way, because deep down they want to keep it completely open, don't want it to be kept out of the way, so we're out of it because there's evidence that people are going into a major structure of wind plants here, and then maybe they've got it all cut off. We know that such interests can have an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u99	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with what. Senator, I thought this visit was the best. Secretary of state last night in many ways strange. But what may have surprised me the most - because I've heard the highest. Ministers respond to people with empty hooks, perhaps it was nothing new. In fact, I was surprised that he did not answer virtually nothing but merely uses such methods. Anyway. But what surprised me most was that the minister came to a game without so much as one new point on the case. He started by reading in half the sounds of his old talk points from the Ministry of State, some of whom, either assistants or officials, have soon met last year. Likely, these were the same points used to explain to the members of the independence that they needed to agree with all of this. But in view of the tremendous amount of debate that has developed since the minister's climax. spoke for the case, and met members of the Board of Staff, in fact at special consultations at the Ministerial Resident to ensure the loyalty of all officials on the case, and in view of the fact that much has been revealed in the meantime, it is not surprising. Senator that the Minister has not made an attempt to bring along like one card, one answer to all these comments, all the discoveries we've seen since the climax. A minister first introduced the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u100	Mr. President. Yes, it was certainly an odd presence here at the highest. Minister. Nothing gets out of the way. I just agree with what. A senator said he had nothing new to offer. In view of this situation, a man would now have felt that we have been discussing this matter, the middle-class members, all this week, at night meetings, and very upbuilding discussions, and a lot of things were found to show that other members had missed because they were sleeping at home. It surprises you to know that he does not respond. The reason may be that he cannot answer this question because he is in a position of helplessness. He lists the same phrases over and over. Read here from the available documents, showing that he has nothing new to make, although we have pointed out that there are many things to discuss, such as Just a down payment for a house warm-up. I asked the highest. Minister to this in particular whether it may not be read out of the 72/2009 Directive included in this package that there may be a risk of refusing to turn electricity down to house heating. No answers other than that we will continue to pay off the house - to - house warming. But what if we get charged? He did not answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u101	Mr. President. In view of the highest. Minister will answer nothing, at least very little, if you'd always had your hopes of trouble. The head of the State Department could correct that. But now I understand that the only contribution she made to this discussion during the past few days was to show up last night at a show her friend's annual taxpayer's expense, a show that friends meet mainly to talk to other people and explain why the friendship group is better than anyone else. When these two come together, you wonder. Councilmen, or one o'clock. A senator and one of the highest. Ministers, and both try as they can to avoid the discussion, except when they participate in it, in the case of the highest. Minister of state by being dragged here to the Assembly Hall and the Supreme Court. The president of the council felt that we should primarily be grateful and delighted to see the minister. On the one hand, in the case of the highest. Minister, when he is brought here at the council hall, let's say it politely, and so in the case of the arraignment. The head of the State Department when they receive a TV program with their friends. In both cases, the energy package is not being explained or reasoned with it, it is just a delicacy, especially with the Middle Class. What does that say? A senator on the chemical status of these two main players of this energy package? I conclude that this is an outstanding indication that people do not rely on reason and therefore use these methods. This is a sign of irreprehensible insecurity. [[The president calls.]] But there's a reason. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u102	Mr. President. Indiscriminate insecurity. Yeah, I think that's where it's at. A senator certainly put things in proper perspective. Hv. A senator here specifically mentioned the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Álauga Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. I personally witnessed this sighting of her miseries, which she has used over and over in her case here. From the beginning, she has been irritated by the need to stand here and reason on her case and that there should be members of the council who do not agree with her, that the council should not be one Hallelujah spider on her case. Evidently, it was at the beginning of the case when she gave her speech here. Since then, as I said, I personally felt this error, because I have repeatedly pointed to it in my language that the electricity prices for homes and companies in this country have risen considerably by a energy package one and two, and it will continue to increase by a energy pack of three. Well, that's what it's got. A senator and the head of the State Department repeatedly said that I was wrong and called it from a Senate Hall. Besides, I was on the national radio program for the week's end at the State Radio, where I had a hard time. A senator was also. There she often said that I was wrong that house - to - house electrical prices and to the public and to the company in the country were increased by the induction of energy packages one and two. I've been refuting these claims. I'm sure the senator here is very thorough. I've shown up in accounts, newspapers reporting a marked rise in electricity, etc. [[The president calls.]] So it's a good thing, Mr. President, that a senator should be made this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u103	Mr. President. I'd like to review the comments of Eyjólfur Ármannsson's annual son and cover a fourth chapter on a dog's pocket and grab him here and there a little bit. This is chapter four of the review: A treatment for the joint EEA committee after Iceland's rejection on the third energy package. The lawyer will present what happens if Iceland rejects the third energy package. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ By references to the above: - i.e. The Magistrate of Iceland is to inform the joint EEA committee at the decision of No. 93/2017 has not been approved at the Allied Parliament. Iceland thus took advantage of the administrative advance and redirected the matter to the committee. This is consistent with the 2 mg per protocol. 103. g. The EEA Convention and the 102rd. The contract.How's it going? This is the one we've been saying for a long time that it's possible to do, but humans haven't trusted in doing it. It says on page 18. Seven, with permission to the highest. President: So, very rich demands are on the European Commission to do their utmost to find a solution that can be accepted by members and is obliged to continue working on an agreement on a solution in order to reassign the first. It is obvious that the above treatments do not correspond to the information of the EEA Convention. Special directives for resignation are found in the 127th st. The contract, which says, can reveal its involvement in the contract provided that the contract is granted at least twelve months in writing. As soon as the planned resignation has been announced, the remaining parties should be invited to a government conference to assess the necessary changes to the contract. The General Assembly of the existing Parliamentary Directive, thereby confirming the decision of the joint EEA committee, does not include the resignation of the EEA Convention. A reference to the joint EEA committee cannot be interpreted as resignation. If Generalis believes that the above treatments, according to the 102nd and 103thres. The EEA Treaty is not a practical treatment for finding a solution that Member States can accept when they refer to a case again to the Joint EEA Commission and when there are problems with areas falling under their authority and that such equivalents to the agreement or its resignations, the General Parliament is to acknowledge that the administrative committee is not relevant and that legislation regarding the implementation of EU types is actually in place for the joint EEA committee but not for the International Assembly of Iceland. He concludes his discussion with the following words, this fine lawyer, with the permission of a president: The Council must support the minister of the state's legal rights to implement national regulations, which do not have any significance or value for Iceland. Acting in laws that do not have significance or value for society reduces respect for laws and rules within them and can undermine them. Within the national rights, this is an interesting subject of opinion that should be prompted for a more thorough examination in Iceland. If the Allied Parliament of Iceland and the government so that Iceland must agree with the existing Parliamentary proposals due to political pressure from the EU, larger EU or Norway countries, or that Iceland has already agreed to a political agreement to do so, the General shall inform the public about this. Democratic governance and transparency require this. The key point is that the nation is always informed about the state of the country in the EEA community. So many words, Mr. President. I see my time is running out, but I thought it was a very interesting reading about what happens if the Icelanders reject the energy package as it is currently available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u104	Mr. President. Yes, it's very informative and important inputs into the discussion. What happens if we refer the case to the EEA joint committee? It doesn't really happen at all. That's what I'm talking about. It's just a path, it's a legal path, and things aren't gonna get upset. Nobody's gonna get upset here because nobody in the contract says they're gonna upset if we choose this way we have. Something has been said of emergency in this regard, that this should only be used in emergencies. No one's pointed it out, except for Baudenbacher, who's made it. I think it is perfectly clear, Mr. President, that if there were any emergency where you could refer to the joint EEA committee, it should only be part of the deal. There should then be an article in the contract that says that it is only allowed to represent the committee in emergencies. Then, naturally, they should be listed and explained as to what is an emergency. To me, the government's hearing is that everything here is cooling off and that we are definitely not allowed to take advantage of this law, just fear propaganda. But the big issue, perhaps the most serious, is why they are being maintained. It needs to be revealed, and we need to be examined and discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u105	Mr. President. It says on page six of the review, when Iceland announces to the EEA that the Commission's decision was not approved, says, by permission of the President: Back in 102 C.E. it is made clear that the joint EEA committee should do its utmost to resolve a solution that people can accept when there are serious problems in areas that fall under the authority of the Lawgiver in the EFTA State, as per Article 3. It is the obligation of the parties to do their utmost to negotiate the terms of the agreement, as per Article 3. 102st It is clear that this right to refer a three - pack of energy to the EEA joint committee is completely unambiguous. It's so interesting that I noticed today when it was the highest. The minister of the State was here unaware that he had read this report. He did not recognize her, and he did not recognize this lawyer, so he spoke to him, saying, "Well, we had our most skilled experts work for us on this matter. " But as far as I can see, the results of this fine man, the Eyjólfur Ármannsson of Aarhus, fall very well, in most cases, on the results of what the Second Age of Friðriksson Hirst found in his report, even after sending her back to the State Ministry of State. But it does show a similar tone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for making this clear to us and to those at home. Because it is only very important to show the data that are there and the ways that are to go. I'm here with 102 st. of the EEA Convention. It makes it clear, by permission of the President, that the EEA joint committee, like what. A senator mentioned, should do his utmost to resolve a solution that may be accepted by members. Simple couldn't be that, Mr. President. That's why I say, "It's totally incomprehensible why the government doesn't want to go that way." The solution is to be found, and the committee is to do their utmost to resolve such a solution because there is a difference in the matter and there is a great difference in the community. We see that seven reviews out of every ten who received the matter to the State Department are negative about this. The labor unions, the labor movement, the work market is against the case, the majority of the people, and many former ministers who know well about the seminary. There are all reasons to recommend the case for the joint EEA committee to do so, according to this article, to their utmost capacity to resolve the solutions. [[The president calls.]] Simpleer could not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u107	Mr. President. Some mud storms that we are not permitted - or, yes, we are allowed to refer this conflict to the joint committee, then all become fanciful, and some horrible political nuns will be aware of it. But I don't think it's gonna be. As soon as it goes to 102. ..... 4. mg, says, by permission of the President: If it is not possible to agree on changes to the Annex to this agreement, despite the application of a previous paragraph, to be read earlier -- which I read at the same time as the EEA joint committee will examine all the additional possibilities of ensuring continued good implementation of the contract and making the necessary decisions, including acknowledging that legislation is comparable. When you read how it goes and what happens, and like what happens. A senator briefly stated that nothing will happen unless the case is referred to this joint committee. And the committee has two steps to agree with each other. When we look at it, Mr. President, turning down the package and sending it into this process - there is one widespread misunderstanding, there is not being rejected so that we do not pick it up, it is being rejected, in accordance with these suggestions, in the present form. However, it will be adopted in our legislation and here with legal warnings made by the European Union itself, so that there will be no disagreement later on on because of some faulty warnings that humans do not even know where they are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u108	President. Hv. A senator mentioned something that I found very interesting and made me think. Although that was not the main part of a talk. The senator identified the peculiarity of bringing something into law that was not intended to be passed as law. When you suddenly realize the simplicity of absurdity, in many of these cases, you have thoughts that might follow a few talks. But I'm just gonna start by asking. A senator on the subject. We haven't got any answers from the highest. Secretary of state on this. Why, though, should humans ever bring something into the laws of the land that they do not want to apply? You'd think, for one thing, it was relatively risky. Then they're on notice. We've been good enough for them now, we don't have to assume them anymore. But let us say that those who are doing this actually believe that the guards are holding, just to try to figure out what these good people are about to do. Let us assume that people believe that the officers are holding. Why, then, the law? Why not simply get an exception from things that are not appropriate? I can't get this thing to come together. Finnur it. A senator who has clearly read extensively in well - thought - out, well - thought - out articles some indication of what might be involved when a person becomes involved in a law that he does not want to be legally bound? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u109	Mr. President. You might also ask, " Why bring into law something that does not match the Icelandic constitution? ' There are tools for a three - pack energy package, as it is available, to complete a Icelandic constitution. If we were to say this with caution, we could say that he is holding the constitution to the limit. Then you say, " Why would we do that? ' A Eyjólfur's description of Ármannsson's annual son is a guide, virtually, to that fact. This is a clear description of how to reexamine one Regulation or act from the European Union back to the European Commission, although it has never been done. Now let's remember: I don't know how many years passed until 26. Iceland's constitution was first established, that the President could refer matters to the nation. That article was always there, but it was never used. Here's 102. In this contract. There is a detailed description of how a case should be sent to the Committee, how to process it, and let us note that these are our business associates. The EEA Convention is our client. He's not an enemy. He doesn't want us any harm. He doesn't want to destroy this deal any more than we do. Of course, people want to negotiate, and they want the legislation set up here and the types set in here to be put in the right and legal way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u110	Mr. President. Yeah, these are our business partners. Why should we accept their identification as a dangerous enemy? Why should we view them as a threat? It is very peculiar for someone who has a good business relationship and builds it on a contract that makes it particularly possible and encourages human efforts to resolve matters in a way that everyone can live well with pleasure, as it is said, take the initiative to define that party as dangerous, someone who should have power over us, and who would not dare us to use the terms of the agreement, this positive and, in fact, beautiful provisions. It's very strange. But I was going to ask. A senator's comments about the Constitution: Could it be that there is a relationship between them as fully prepared as they are now, to postpone a decision on the Constitution? Could it be that there is a link between this and the interest that some have described in making changes to the constitution and removing the so - called sovereignty code of the constitution? Is it possible for a person to see that a decision to accept the Constitution can be delayed, which is actually not possible? But could it be that humans feel that they can put it off until the constitution is established that this is no longer a problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u111	Mr. President. I'm almost sure there are those who think exactly that way. But I've had a lot of thought -- when men were putting the package together, i.e. Congress proposal as it enters the council - the possibility of reassigning the package whole in the EEA Committee. I have two men talking, and they say, "Why don't we just send this package back? The other one says, "No, there's so much trouble." The European Union is going to go crazy, and this is so hard. It's gonna take so long and it's going to be in the fan, and it's gonna be something really bad and something we don't want to do. Either people are magnifying it, just as humans had the last impression when we had to face a great international battle, we should not say it that way. Then, too, people were afraid, trembling in their knees for something and practically afraid of their shadow. As you read more, and as we have discussed more, it becomes evident that this fear is unfounded. Although it was never done before. So what? At some point, people have assumed that the day might come when this must be done, and that day is simply now. It is made up that the majority of the people do not want to adopt. So why not make changes in it that it can be adopted properly and legitimately in Icelandic legislation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u112	Mr. President. I need to talk about windmills. They are closely connected with the plans for the induction of a three - pack of energy, as we have already seen, both under the theory and according to the reality of a very sudden interest in building windmill gardens in many parts of the country. But are windmills as promising as many people who call themselves environmentalists seem to think? I'm not so sure that it is, except, of course, that visual pollution caused by such obstacles. For example, regarding this interesting article in Specialator magazine, scholar Matt Ridley has written and calculated the real effects of the milling process, especially in terms of climate issues. Based on how much wind mills are covered, and now also in Iceland, you think they are important to the world's energy supply, at least Europe, as a result, has been given tremendous emphasis on wind milling. The third package, of course, is a major factor in these EU energy plans for which the third package is a flagship to contribute to increased wind milling. What, though, do they bring in much of the energy? What would be the greatest. A president thinks, if we pull it out of the next whole number? Should that be 20%, 10%, 5%? No, Mr. President, 0%, if we roll it off, we'll deliver windmills 0.46% of the energy output. Even if we put solar energy on the ground, we are still below 1%. Most of what has been defined as renewable energy sources in the world's energy supply, i.e. About 14% of the energy production, or 3/4, is produced by burns, in fact, especially wood. But it has been decided to define the growth of trees as renewable energy. The world's energy demand continues to increase, and the third energy package is thought to increase. to meet the increased energy demand in the European Union and to do as much as possible with renewable energy sources, which, of course, is a positive goal in itself. The world's demand for energy grows by 2% per year and has been doing approximately 40 years, about 2% a year. If we are going to respond to this growth with windmills - I mention this because people have made up so much of the possibility in Iceland as a windmill park that provides Europe with energy - if we are just going to answer the greater demand for energy every year with windmills alone, it would take 350,000 large windmills. It is now more than half the number of these windmills built since 2000 when countries, especially Europe, began to strengthen such energy production. Less than 350,000 windmills would require land area bigger than the entire United Kingdom island, bigger than large Britain and Ireland, just to meet the increase one year ago. Remember, Mr President, here we're just talking about the increase, the change from year to year. To meet her with windmills alone, they would have to take possession of areas greater than Britain and Ireland combined. At present, about 80% of the world's energy production has been achieved by burning fossil fuels. Mr. President. I see time goes faster and I'm just starting my review of windmills so I'll have to ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator began his talk about windmills. I have to say, he caught my attention, and I look forward to hearing the rest. The minuteest information. A senator is directly striking. I must admit that I didn't realize that windmills were such a small part of the energy produced. I did not realize that this is the way energy demand would come and that it would really be impossible for us to cope with this growing demand of energy by windmills. One thing I wondered about with these windmills is what I've seen on my travels, including correspondent in the United States There have been great opposition in certain areas that have been constructed by a wind - power garden, not just because of sight pollution, but because of sound pollution as well as the natural tears of birds living. Windmills are naturally clever inventions and can work in some cases for a small isolated system. But in this quantity, hugeity descends from the windmills. I'd kind of like to curious. The reason I come on the platform is primarily because I look forward to and would like to hear more about this and if these aspects of the article are addressed. A senator talks about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u114	Mr. President. It is right to keep it in its place. A senator rightly mentions that, of course, there are times when windmills are relevant in some places and that there are many useful inventions. Windmills such as this have not been new and have been relevant for thousands of years in industrialization. But what I'm worried about in this case is the context of the parts, if Iceland becomes part of this common energy market, and people realize that the country is producing more and more energy. It has specifically pointed to windmills, but as people know, left greens, especially for those traditional, renewable energy sources, hydropower workers, and aquifers, they don't want to increase them much at all. Then there are windmills. That is why I believe it is proper to point out how vast amounts of windmills would be needed to have something to say. But the danger is that people would walk on the track and put pressure on more and more of these windmill gardens in Iceland. You can, for example. compares it with Merian Healing. One day I calculated that in order to produce the same power as the Kaldrum's operation, windmills would need to cover the areas of the highland that were seven times bigger than the neck, which, of course, would not bring in the constant energy produced by the Kárian's disease. I'm concerned that the induction of this third energy package will push for projects I think, from a nature protection point of view, very questionable, and not to give any particular amount of energy, but to look good in the context of the environment, especially if men are out in Europe, far from the wind mills in Iceland, and be able to view them there as clean, Icelandic, Icelandic, windmill parks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Regarding the windmills, I've been thinking about whether they're suitable for land in some particular area. I suppose that is where foreign investors have shown an interest in putting them here. What I'm primarily thinking about is that we think we have enough calm that's going around the country. It's windy in Iceland, but maybe it's a lot that, as I've come next, it's really not possible to operate windmills at the point that the wind passes over a particular line. Like I say, I haven't really studied windmills that well. But with these winds being built here as foreign investors, including From Norway, have shown interest in building here; in what area would the parks preferably rise in the land? Has a what? A senator examines how these winds of wind would be linked to the electrical transport system and how powerful would they be? Is it important for the Icelanders to be able to build wind parks to improve energy on the electrical transport system? Or the effects of nature negative, visual contamination, audio contamination, etc.? Have these things been identified to some extent by the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u116	Mr. President. Yes, very good questions. I agree that there may be an area in Iceland where windmills are relevant. But I'm concerned that if Iceland is to be seen as some kind of energy plant for Europe and it creates enormous pressures on all too much projects in this country. So I'll answer another one of your questions. A senator has this tremendous environmental impact. It's not just sight pollution. It's not just noise pollution as it is. A senator mentioned, and some worry about killing birds. There must also be an enormous overthrow, an immense structure, with the sheer size of these windmills. Just such a traditional cigar can be twice as high as Hallgrim when it's in the top position. To sustain it, you need enormously superior structures. Of course, it takes a road to plant the windmill, and it takes electrical connections from every turban every wind mill on the system. Thus, the overall impact on the environment can be tremendous. True, it is a reversible effect. But when you look at it for decades, at least, or at least a year, after everything and cables and these huge sinks have been built? In this regard, it is remarkable that windmills last quite briefly. I thought that when a cigar was built, it would only last forever. But they have relatively short life spans for energy workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting speech. I believe this discussion has been highly underestimated how the implementation of a energy package three, the European Union Directive on the common market for electricity, could affect this building of windmills. I just agree with what. A senator means that there are areas in the country suitable for windmills, and there is nothing to rule them out as such. But there have to be rules here, and communities have, for example, rules. It is called upon to set rules in this regard. We are very close to that, but at the same time it is obvious that investors are very interested in going to these gardens. You wonder why that interest is there. Hv. A senator expressed great joy in seeing such monuments. A senator has taken a good look at this. It is a big investment, and to make such an investment requires a lot of money. You need something for the money they've put into it. This is not what the situation is today because the market here is so full when it comes to electricity. Isn't it pretty obvious, then, huh? A senator, looking to sell this energy out of the country? Is that not what we see?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u118	Mr. President. I think that's what I'm looking at. I'll explain why we're here. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator points out that there is no demand for which windmills would come in particular in the system today. More interesting, though, the energy derived from windmills is relatively more expensive than the energy we can produce by hydropower activations and geochemists. Therefore, windmills have not been competitive in Iceland as energy prices are available here. As a result, energy prices must be expected to increase. These two things go together. Plans are being made to meet demand that is not present in this country and plans are being made based on increasing prices. In addition, the European Union's logical support for the linking of electronic energy systems to Iceland is defined as a country of renewable energy sources on three terms, that is, hydro-engineers, the geo-tainers, and, in particular, wind gardens. Here, people imagine enough empty space lacking in most parts of Europe, the nature of what they say. And when this connection is established, this could become the third major factor in the production of energy, as I noted earlier, left greens are not particularly impressed by the growth in hydropower activations or geothermal activations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u119	Mr. President. It's one thing to be surprised at this, but it's what seems to be a lack of interest left greener on the environmental effects of what the energy package provides; it opens a way for a much greater production of electricity than has been done. I think it's perfectly clear. Therefore, it would have been very interesting to have a environmental minister's opinion of what he will provide for himself in these areas. We look to the future, and it is clear that the cable will come. He won't be here tomorrow if this energy package is approved today, but within a relatively few years, I think it's safe to say. That's what experts have said, e.g. National and national experts. Technology is a major contributing factor in these matters. The stringlets have become less expensive in production. While such an investment is certainly a major investment, the situation, the climate, etc., is becoming increasingly desirable to the pure energy we have here. Therefore, one would have felt that the Environment Minister would normally have participated in this discussion. That would be, for example. you can ask him about these things, whether there is no evidence of them, and this will lead to an increase in electricity production. And where are we now doing this rule, such as. with the windmills? In case of a moment. Perhaps a member of the council could come up with just a question of whether he had thought it wasn't natural for an environmental minister to come into this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u120	Mr. President. As far as the windmills are concerned, the rule is obviously not ready. Men suddenly face this tremendous interest in windmill gardens and obviously have not anticipated it, perhaps have not realized the connection between the induction of the third energy package and its interest. With regard to the question of getting to the highest level. The Environment Minister is amazed that environmental ministers are not involved in this matter in the view that it is inevitable, if the aim is to sell energy, that it has a considerable environmental impact. That's a question. A senator gives me the opportunity to answer a question. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, whom I couldn't answer earlier, asked him, "Where will these windmills all be placed? Where is the place of the land? The projects that we have already seen in history are already in many parts of the earth, but there must be a bit narrow if people are going to make the highlands all the way to the national park, and they are not about to build windmills there. That is when the windmills are pushing closer to the ground. The beaches and lowlands in Iceland are as beautiful to nature as they are. Thus, although Iceland is a rural country, it is very low that there will be room for what this concept of wind mills would call the third energy supply of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u121	Mr. President. I noticed an article written by the State Radio correspondent. This article is dated May 24, since it is dated then. Rúnar Reynisson, a news writer. He wondered whether a government company should be top priority. A newsmagazine makes energy policy a subject in this article in relation to the way other nations have viewed it, but also what we do here in Iceland. I'm just wondering why Iceland hasn't created a whole-scale energy policy, i.e. A policy aimed at making responsible use of the important natural resource we have here. The main causes are water pollution, but they also affect the earth's quality of high - temperature activations that have yielded good results. It also involves what you have to do at the same time. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson spoke in his first Sermon on the Mount and in what we have not done with, i.e. sun energy, and in the future we may perhaps remember. Enable the waves and currents of the sea. We're also taking our first step in the use of hydropowers through the sewers, which are highly developed. I've studied some kind of continuum transfunctioners and companies that build such amount of juice placed in a torrent and produce electricity. Companies in the Czech Republic and Canada are specialised in this. But the problem with the layer activation is that they produce relatively little electricity, it is difficult to extract very much water. That's when I'm talking about a water main that runs in a lake, which is when a fallrate is not used to power the interruptions or the turbans. Such fortresses could serve well in a manner similar to windmills, i.e. in areas where water flows but is not in a fallen hill for use in more efficient turbins, just as windmills would be used in areas relatively dry and beyond water control. However, the advantage of such activations is that they damage the environment very little or nothing and therefore may be suitable for some extent. However, they are unlikely to be suitable or useful for further access to electrical transport systems. I think I've mentioned the basic advantages that can be used to further energy from nature in a clean way, so clearly, that would be considered here in Iceland despite burning wood could be considered a renewable energy. But the woods haven't been getting in our way here in Iceland. However, in terms of government policy, when we have defined what is to be done, this article aroused my interest because its content is that there is no policy here. I think that's serious. In fact, a team of workers is working to define such a policy and is well qualified. But it's wrong that we actually don't have a energy policy, but we're still creating a three-piece energy pack with a synonym proposal. Now it's time to run away from me. I was going to be further in this talk, but I may be able to give another talk on this subject and ask them to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u122	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. This has been an interesting discussion of the environmental impact of energy induction package three. By means of the induction process, the government and the government have said that we do not have to worry because there is no cable. We've gone over quite well that the cable will come after some year, not in such a long time, I think, we may be talking about 10, 12, 15 years. It is a short time, and then it will be the authority of this whole European network, the common institution called ACER. But what I wanted to say, Mr. President, is that I think the environmental discussion is very important. Clearly, the induction of the energy package will increase the appeal of the national energy resource use by our Icelanders because they will be able to see the opportunity to sell energy at a far greater price than they can get for it in this country. I could see a 50% rise in electrical prices here in Iceland to become a transponder. I think it might even grow up. I'd love to get a diagnosis. A senator's opinion of what he believes in these matters and why the environment has not received more attention in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer, which is very appropriate after the talk I started earlier and also after a talk. paritaprevir The winners of the son of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who spoke before me. About a question why. A member of the Environment Effect Agency, which is very good: Why should this be done in Iceland, which has been tried to market as a clean country, e.g. about tourists? That we are here with clean water, pure air, unnerved nature, pure farms, clime, pure energy, and earthvarding our houses, and all that. Why hasn't this been discussed? I think it was the same reason for interest that led me to the talk I was going to give now, that it is not a course, and it is not appropriate. The discussion is not suitable when the procedure is started and tried to drive the case through quickly, to get involved in something by discussing environmental matters in the same process, because most Icelanders are very interested in environmental matters. V.E.G. Environment Minister has been very interested in protecting nature and even going further than I would personally want to see, because I think we should use natural resources than we should be responsible. But I think that's why. My answer to a senator's question is that the reason is simply that policy does not exist and is not suitable for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u124	Mr. President. Yes, there is no policy, and energy policy does not exist and is not suitable for the ideologies set in motion and the programmes that involve us becoming one market area with Europe when it comes to electricity. I'm asking you, isn't it just starting at the wrong end? Shouldn't the country's energy policy have long been set before people took those steps? I think that's pretty clear. But where this will lead when it comes to nature, I'm afraid we might have to see some major changes. Hv. A senator mentioned, for example. It's the tourist current. These windmills, because they have been mentioned in this discussion, are in many parts of Europe. We'll see, for example. When we arrive in Denmark, we learn that the visual effects of the windmills are very severe. This is something that is natural to shape a policy before rural administration allows for changes in main structure, etc. to pay for the ideas of investments in windmill parks. There is no overall policy in the country. Civil society has called from the government how these matters should be handled because of the increased interest in windmill gardens. So you ask yourself, and maybe you can. One senator made further progress: Not only has it become too urgent to take good care of these investments as such, i.e. no policy, etc.? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. Yes, it can be obvious that too much effort has been made to say, what to say, encourage investments by words or actions, or at least a survey of investments in this energy field. However, it has not been handsome enough to work on energy policies and environmental policies, which must then be referred to as energy policy. It is hardly to remember that we were, at least for a short time - I'm not entirely aware of the fact that our national parks had been placed upon the custody of the same party, but I don't think so. It is inconsistency that we cannot somehow concentrate on these matters in all sincerity and follow-up so well. And at the same time, people are rushing too fast to agree with some giant thing like a pack of energy, in a nonsenseing song, on the grounds that there is so much political uncertainty that comes with doing things well. It's a ideologies that make one simply sound, even though we've been talking about it for eight dozen hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þórðirsson for his speech, hoping that he would not be silent for very long. But this is a point worth entering. A senator mentioned in his talk, i.e. this lack of general energy policy. It is noteworthy, of course, that humans are as deeply involved in the implementation of EU regulations as they are introduced into this third energy package that we address without the existence of personal energy policy. It's, in a mild way, an abundance of instruments in our energy-rich country for further energy sources. The person listed here has appeared to be more closely involved in environmental energy growth and continued to use instruments for these products. But we're out of policy. And as long as you don't know where you're going, you're gonna bounce around like a drift in the ocean. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has the impression that this work is involved in the induction of the third energy package, that man does not have a policy to work out. Does the senator think that this will make the work easier for the Minister because it doesn't have to worry about any of the princes that men have agreed to? Or it's a skunk. A senator even thought that this would cause long - term damage when the prince's penalties are missing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. This is a key question to this big case. If I correctly discern the question, do you think that order prompts, or persuades, men to take such steps and that is to be described? In the big context - this is basically a discussion that needs to be taken on a broad basis - this gets in the way of induction. I think it is quite early to realize that the lower the rules or the lower the marketed policy available, the much easier it is actually to introduce types. What's considered here is number one, two and three is the Constitution, warned. But if we had a complete policy on energy and environment too, which would be indiscriminate and even administrative or legalized, so we thought that it would go against that policy, it would be rather difficult. But then there may be a secondary discussion of the same question, which would be very nice to take here on a talk chair, i.e. where do investors come to invest? Is it in countries where a regular work is established and much in which resources are used? Or is it more convenient to do so, since a rule is loose and easier to walk through resources freely, so that we may not say it more strongly?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u128	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It is not new that much of the easier it is to engage in casual chores than has been prepared for the knots. That caught my attention earlier today or yesterday, but the meeting has gone from day to day, already the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was here, and he tried to turn the question of what is to be held back from finishing the matter now. And the reasoning he made was that there was a hurry to finish it because it would reveal how unnecessary our concern in the Middle Ages had been. This could have been the weakest argument ever made in terms of speeding up this payment. I don't really understand what the minister was up to, maybe it was tired of picking on him. But the minister's approach was completely strange, that it would have to come through so that people could prove that our concern had been unnecessary. I hope that a stronger argument is born as this discussion continues until next week. That's what I'm talking about. A senator of energy policy deficiency would I like to reiterate my question and put it forward in this way: Does the senator think we are wise to put the hatching of this third energy package back to the time of energy policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the second answer. I think it's very important to have complete and developed a course, although, like other policies, it can certainly change over the course of time. I think it's very important that Iceland and I contribute to our policy in the light of the speciality we are in because we have a special situation in so many areas. It's not just that we're islands of the north, that we have resources that are in the quantity of the country's appeal to be very generous and rich, but are different from what is happening in the continent. Nature is also unique, and nature is sensitive, sensitive, and more sensitive than in many other areas. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we contribute to this policy when at the same time contributing to the resource use policies in a responsible and sustainable way and that we do not take irreversible steps beyond what may be necessary, that we use our resources in a profitable and sustainable way, but don't take steps so that, what we should say, we go over nature and destroy both the image of our country and nature around us, because it will probably come back on us for a long time. I think it's very important, though. A senator, having the chronological order correct, not only in this case, but also on whether it should introduce here before a joint EEA committee has been visited.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u130	A respectable president. There was another president in the President's chair earlier that night when we opened up a discussion about the President's conference board. Nevertheless, I would like to mention this now in the context of the fact that it is now five o'clock on Saturday morning. No comments were made during a longer meeting period at the beginning of a meeting, and this is usually because of their approval that a meeting will be held until midnight and just past midnight. In view of this, and in view of our concern that the members of the council are hard driving these days because of the decision of the president on how the meeting board should be conducted and organized, I'd like to ask a president how he makes sure that the conference is carried out and when he plans for it to be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u131	Just a moment, Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. I wondered if there's any particular reason why it's like some sneaker how long a meeting should last each day, whether it can't be published, at any rate with acceptable limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u132	Mr. President. I encourage the highest. A president who now serves to help us senators explain to the president that this may not be the case. The President's acting out the Council's time management as best he can. I think it's beginning to take on the good staff of the Generals. It can't go that way. The president uses it on the staff of the Generals, some of his competitiveness, either to try to silence conversation, to put it in the shelter of the night, or even at the highest level. Let's think that he's running the Parliaments of the Central Party to discuss the issues of the energy package. There must be a greater sense of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u133	Mr. President. I agree with what. Councilmen here. I don't quite understand why it can't be said how long the meeting will last. I can be here until the morning and until noon, if that's the case. I worked shift hours for years before I came here and liked working especially on bright summer nights. But I have also served where organization is very good and important. I feel that there is a great lack of organization at this council, that it can't be said how long the meeting is supposed to be. Is there a secretism behind it? What ideologies are behind the inability to say that the meeting will be 6, 8, 9? I can't quite figure it out. A senator, and in fact, I have never understood it since I arrived at the council. I think it's a very important thing to do something about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u134	Mr. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. I really don't know myself except to do shift work. I'm raised in the country, and they took crusts, which was the most normal thing. But so. Over 20 years, I've been doing irregular shift work, and there's time difference, and there's something else. I'm not afraid of that. On the other hand, the logical conclusion is that, whether you are shoveling a canal or doing something else, you are still planning things. I call forward once again that for the first time, the president will take account of both the people who work at the Council and the reasonable sense of order at a time and will inform us of how long the meeting will be and what arrangements and arrangements will take place below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u135	The president can agree with the question. Councilmen, there's a strain on members of the council. But to some extent, this is a combination of many here. Senators who want to talk it over and there's not much time left for the council. They just have to make the best use of their time. There are five senators on the rosary, and we are here, president and staff, to meet that need, so the president intends to proceed. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u136	A respectable president. Slug. Wednesday was adopted at a meeting of the Presidency Committee to provide an additional meeting on Thursday and Friday at the end of the week. Now that we're in on Saturday, I'd like to read from this context the law on the state of Congress, which says, with the permission of a president: A serious conference according to a work programme shall be held no longer until the end of the year. 8 afternoon. However, if members of the council agree on it or if the council agrees, the crest may be removed. Eighty-one. The proposal for a longer meeting period can be made by the president without any notice. Then the president can decide that a meeting will be held until midnight on Tuesday nights. Men are not expected to be here at night meetings and found until morning, that there is nobility in those rules. It should be obvious to everyone. This is not an unfair requirement for us members of Congress in view of the approval of an additional meeting on Thursday and Friday - now Saturday - to be informed on the basis of the decision of that meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u137	The answer is true. Senator, we're here on Saturday night, not Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u138	Mr. President. That's funny. That's the best song I've ever heard. The president, that when it is specifically expected that one day a meeting can be held for longer than another day would be the highest. The president means that the days of the meeting can be held much longer than the day when a meeting meeting could be held. Long will man try, Mr. President. But I want to take it as the highest. The president said the importance of making good use of the time, and praying to the highest degree. One president wondered if he feels that time will work out well if people need to talk about it, for example. At 2 p.m. 5 In the night, when people don't have the opportunity to follow up here, when members of the management team who continue to run this case clearly do not have the opportunity to follow up, which actually calls for repeating what they have done in these situations when some may have the opportunity to observe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u139	Mr. President. I will only turn to that time when it comes, and it shall not come within so many years, that a sea cable shall be laid upon the land, and from the land. What does that mean? This means that it activates all the ingredients of the third energy package and the following package. And then we have handed over the sovereignty, so to speak, when it comes to the national energy resources because of the institutions involved in it, such as. ACER, this joint organisation that comes to supervise and control this legal class, it will have final words on how much energy can be exported and at what price. We can't change that. We need to accept that despite large resources, the European Union will determine the cost of energy. This means that much of the production and innovation in the country will move closer to markets. After the production and tools, the funds and then the young, they follow these natural opportunities. That is why you have to say that it is not business to be tied up in some of the regulations that buyer of energy determines the price of energy when it arrives. As to this, Viðar Garðarsson has written an article, which is an interesting description of how things develop when the cable is established, the implementation of this energy directive, and thus leading ACER to the energy transport sector in Iceland. This economic consequence is definitely negative, Mr. President. There will be demand for energy into the continent of Europe. This means an increase in electricity prices within the country because it is a fairer market and demand, and the product is looking for the highest price. It will be an inflation, and the provision of the public will be reduced by the decline of business competitiveness and then the rise of electrical prices will result in an increase in public provision. The national consequences of bringing in this energy package, which the government says has no effect - may, in the absence of the cord. But the problem with us Icelanders is that we think too much ahead. The nations, neighboring nations, that we compare with our thinking for decades, and much more so in the future in their decisions. That's exactly what they're doing with them on this common market, knowing that there's a need for this clean energy. So I have to say that a much deeper discussion of this social impact is needed when the cable is in place and the ACER gets power here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u140	Mr. President. I have given this considerable attention, as far as human efforts have been concerned, or have been able to avoid discussing the actual effects of the energy package, when it is fully accomplished and its objectives. It is as if governments felt better about possible warning and what is left out of the streets, rather than discussing their targets with the energy package and the effect on having as the goals that the package meets, to mark, designed to deliver. But I think we're in our discussions at the council, even though it's a long way that we can stop considering the warnings. This has finally been confirmed in the discussions that they do not exist and that they do not matter, have nothing to say. We have also come far enough to see that the final result, when the energy package is created, becomes a link to the joint European electricity market, and as a result, this great power of this foreign agency leads to Iceland. Well, I hope we can look forward to continuing results, that we will always take one more step, from these discussions here at the council, to analyze the effects of ACER taking control, so to speak, the effects of the energy package when it is made up. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that the evidence we have of this effect is very confusing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u141	Mr. President. I totally agree with what. A senator that the impact is disturbing and incredibly broad, that a European institution should have these powers, such a powerful institution can actually have such an important resource, such as energy and control the prices, control energy levels - I think searching is going to happen when this institution is due to work. It has come to work as such today, but it is not yet affecting us. But she'll come to affect us, e.g. Just from a business point of view. We're supposed to do this on our terms. It may well be that it will be practical for us to provide a cable, and it was not in itself wrong to explore it with Britain in its own time. But it should only happen on our terms, not on the basis of the European Union, that it can simply control and control it. We would want to determine exactly what we want to get for our energy and control because it has a major impact on our industry and on our country's natural energy supply. We just want to do it ourselves. We don't have to let any foreign agency control this. This must be understood by politicians and understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u142	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right. A senator mentions the transponder cable. Some may be able to argue that it is wise and may want even that it is simply under attack. But if you think so, you should think that if they are at the same time thinking about Icelandic interests, then they must want such a project to be done on our terms, Icelanders, because otherwise the dangers are many and large. I only mention one, then stop doing this under the direction of the ACER, and I became a foreign company or, for example, a foreign company. A foreign investment fund - a large foreign financial investment fund in the area of energy was buying energy companies here - gives us the fact that a large foreign fund in energy has expressed interest in laying sea cables here and would also be buying water rights and even whole energy companies. ACER would carry out its role in removing obstacles to this project, and these foreign people would receive the source, they put the string, funded it, connected with the Icelandic energy system, activated and took to export both the energy they produced in their own name and the energy purchased by other companies as well. But what would be left here in Iceland for the benefit of having this connection taken place? That's not much. Or it can. A senator eased my concern and pointed out that this would give the Icelanders something to our important resource? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u143	Mr. President. In this, you see, there are always the viewpoints of maximizing the profits, as in that case. A senator said that a large investment fund was involved in all of this. The natural purpose is to maximise the profits, i.e. to sell as much clean energy into markets where there is a shortage of cleaner energy, as in Europe. We look forward to a serious climate situation. We're looking ahead for energy change and all that. The pursuit of clean energy results in multiplying over a few years. Therefore, it is very important that we have full control of this energy resource, this vital resource, this great quality of life for us Icelanders. To accept here, Mr. President, an energy package into the future which includes the introduction of another international authority, the European Union, the recruitment of the costs, etc., natural unexploited data for the future generations of Iceland. It's just so big and big that it's totally incomprehensible that Iceland's government, the government, is going to run things through in this way. [[The president calls.]] That's totally incomprehensible, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. I was pleased with what the senator did regarding the possibility that future conditions might arise that it might be wise to consider that from here a sea cable is a source of energy transport. We do not know the future in that context. Then the senator made it clear that we should approach it on our own terms, not under ACER's hat or under the observation authority given to that institution and have towards the nations that introduce the third energy package. I'd like to ask the senator if I'm remembering that there are several countries that are now selling energy to the European Union, I name Germany as an example, who do not fall under the ACER values and are not part of this joint energy package. I think that's important in a bigger discussion that we've got ahead of us about the state of Iceland. What's the difference between Iceland's stratospherics on our terms, as the senator put it, without falling under the ACER, compared to the fact that Iceland is linked by a sea cable and falls under the ACER on... President, am I in the speech? I thought I was opposed, just so I'm not pointing a question to why. Senator. Now I notice that time... Yes, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u146	I noticed that all of a sudden I had three minutes and 16 seconds left.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u147	That's a lot of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u148	I know. You're generous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u149	President thanks a lot. A senator before and before. A senator is opposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u150	Yes, please. I'll be brief. I see that time goes by fast now that the three minutes went missing all at once. The question is, Has the senator formed an opinion on the comparison of these two scenarios, and does he know an example for Europe to buy energy in countries that do not fall under the ACER?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. That's a very interesting feature. I have to admit, I haven't studied it yet. A senator mentioned, whether they are members, firms to sell energy in a way that he did not describe as being under this common administrative device. However, there is a full need to get the information and to get the views of the unsuspecting members of the community about how they make a living, e.g. This institution, ACER. I think it's just a very good introduction into this discussion, and it describes the need for a deep and informative discussion on this subject to be consulted in order to form an accurate assessment of how this will develop in the future. It is giving the European Union authority that we are to have in my own hands. This is a power room, or it will be when the cable is in place. It's just that this whole thing is being built up with this pack of three energy. Then comes a four-pack of energy. And then we'll all follow this energy package. The source is to accept a pack of three energy, and then the connection comes and the connection will not be reversed. Then we will not be able to give up, and we have already agreed to this commitment. We will not control the amount of electricity that goes out of the country. We don't control the guards, either. Businessly speaking, this is, for example, an example. Very unwise. And then we have the natural factor, which is the power supply, which is naturally the worst. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. This interaction between the energy package and what's beyond the corner, what's waiting in the fourth energy package, and the streets, puts us in the position of my opinion that the uncertainty factors are simply too many to justify driving the case in a way that is now being attempted. I'd like to ask the senator if he can predict how this will affect the EEA deal. It's been said that we're digging under the EEA agreements that have doubts about the induction on the basis of which it is based. I don't think it's a good approach. I'd like to go inside. A member of the Parliament according to his perspective on the effects on Iceland's involvement in the EEA, if the concern of our Middle-class members is tested, even if only part of it is. Does the senator think it will put pressure on the EEA deal? Or does the senator think there is a low risk of such a situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u153	Mr. President. Yeah, it's something that needs to be discussed much better, i.e. how this affects the agreement, this introduction will be approved at the council despite the social opposition to this issue. We only see the many narratives that appear to a foreign - language committee where people are negative about this project. Seven out of ten references, unions, labor movements, more of the nation. If you force this case against this case, I think it's perfectly clear that people are beginning to question the agreement because, of course, they're handing over the authority we have today to a national institution. Then they wonder: " Wait, was this what was set up when the contract was made at the time? A former minister of state, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who now knows this contract very well and his work was done at the time, has simply noted that there should be no mention of energy within the EEA Convention and not, in fact, the agriculture either. So if you're going to agree with something that will eventually become a power service, I think the people will say, "Here and no further," and that this deal has just become a premise, not a two-sided contract that should include four freedoms and opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u154	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate and ask for an answer to a question raised when a meeting board was discussed not long ago. This is the question: On the basis of what decision is the current meeting going on? This question is presented in the light of news published in the general sleep program. Wednesday, which says: Today, the World Council Board decided to change the General Work Programme that a meeting will be completed on Thursday, May 23 and Friday, May 24, but both days were scheduled for a series of committees on a schedule. It is based on the possibility that a meeting meeting can begin in the afternoon of both days. It is now Saturday morning, May 25, so I ask: " On the basis of what decision is the meeting we are participating in today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u155	The President can only answer that as long as possible. A senator entered here, i.e. The decision made by the Presidency Committee to add additional meetings and to attend the days appointed to meet the need to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u156	This is Friday meeting...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u157	He started on Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u158	President. I made earlier comments to the most peculiar songs. President, but it now seems to be the highest. Be starting to interpret the calendar and define Saturday as Friday. There's a rush, like a snooze. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason pointed out that the program was changed so that a meeting could be held on Thursday and Friday. There's no such warrant for a conference on Saturday, and actually I have to reiterate what I've mentioned before, that I think this performance is the highest. President, especially with members of the council, not appropriate. Ideas of the highest. The president sees that this matter can be silenced by having a meeting held at hand. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 in the morning or that the matter can be hidden by trying to make the most of the discussion done at that time? This simply requires that a person repeat his case, repeating what they have discovered in the discussions that occur during times like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u159	Mr. President. There must be a responsibility. The director of meetings of responsibility, guided by the progress of the council, and especially by members of the council. If the president's mind is involved, let me remind him that the middle class has repeatedly offered other matters to come forward. It is more likely that they would be able to move on rather than this matter during the administration process so that they will praise only an election that is absolutely crystalful, completely turn to 180° in the council hall and in the handling of this case, but then it is said that democracy will have its start. The elections were democratic, Mr. President, but now the government groups have decided to put their promises behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u160	The President reiterates that this is a meeting the request to discuss this matter, the 1st part of the program, and the speaker's log is open. A few of them. The members of the Central Party have requested to discuss the matter and are enrolled here in a talk, so the president intends to continue a meeting and meet that need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u161	I made comments to the highest. A president he hasn't answered, including. how bad time management is being run here on account of the highest level. In particular, in view of the fact that it actually claims to be a discussion at a time such as this calls for it to be repeated and done better once people have the opportunity to observe it. Looks like it's beginning to look like the highest. President, maybe not the one now seated but the highest. The president of Generalis, feels that even laws do not apply when members of the Central Party are involved. Could be at the top. The president imagined that the members of the Central Party succumb to corruption? What in relationships with the highest. The President of the Generals of the Central Party gets him to think that they would succumb to corruption?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u162	Mr. President. I would like to direct that question to the highest level. The president, where might be consistent in the decision he is making here, that on the basis that a candidate is on the rosary, a meeting should continue for 24 hours, even on weekends, since it does not appear to be a general rule at meetings of the council? I'd like to come up with a metaphor of a captain who had a crew on his responsibility and time management and would run the crew for 44 straight hours - I'm afraid he would soon find himself somewhere else but upstairs in a bridge if he acted in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u163	A respectable president. Sometimes, questions fall between ships and docks and cannot be answered. That's why I wanted to agree, and I especially wanted to address this question. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, asking if this is the new rule and the new reference, that if a student on the rosary should continue a meeting, this will apply to other matters of the council until the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u164	The president can only repeat what he said earlier, here we are facing the need to discuss this matter. Of course, there is nothing traditional about this discussion. We are here at the end of the council, and there are many issues to be discussed. They're trying to get to the end of this matter so that other subjects that wait on the program will find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u165	Mr. President. We have often pointed out that on our part there is no basis that the discussion on this subject will be launched behind discussion of other and urgent matters. There's nothing to do with this. The foreign minister had more than a few hours yesterday to prove that this case was urgent. His explanation was that - in fact, out of consideration for the Supreme Being. Ministers, I'm not going to repeat it, they were so ignominious, I'll tell you. I have to say, I think that time management and that explanation are the highest. Not fully improving, not of the kind I would have expected from the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u166	No more requests have been made for this team, the President's Conference Board. I'm sorry I couldn't answer this better, but then I'll try it with the staff of the Generals, and I'll be able to say it better. This is certainly stressful, and this is unorthodox.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u167	Mr. President. There is good reason to correct this and to deny that the members of the Central Party have repeatedly offered that this case would be raised at the back of discussion of other issues and challenges. I allow myself to expect that. The prime committee received this message because it is clear. It's clear here are issues to take care of. V.E.G. The need to discuss financial and other important matters is seen in the current president's work. V.E.G. The minister of state showed by his conduct here yesterday primarily that there is no point in this matter, and the best possible delay to the autumn as we have suggested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u168	Mr. President. You could say that there were some expectations here yesterday at the time of the Supreme Court. Minister of Foreign Affairs honored the General, I would like to say, and even to us members of the Central Party, with their presence. Thus, the meeting was held at the highest. One minister took the time to sit here and listen to a few talks that gathered several of the biggest points that have been discussed while he was on foreign business with the State. But when it came to the case, it was the highest. Ministers, I think, take a warning from the sport: It is hardly possible to say that he has made a good assembly. Case reporting at the highest. A minister's reply was that he did not answer much of what was sought from him. However, there are two important exceptions. It was also noted that he has not forgotten any of the things that he seems to have adopted at the political school at Valhalla, but perhaps they are not methods that would be most dignified, unfortunately. The most important questions were asked. Minister. He was asked out on a legal note. He was asked about his national worth. He was asked about the possible conflict with the constitution of the third energy package. He was asked about the opinion of the experts whom he himself called to work as legal partners to produce the energy package, especially the induction of Regulation 713/2009, will result in at least Implicit influence of foreign institutions on the nation's organization, plans and use of the country's very important energy resources, to keep myself in touch with the expression in the opinion of the legal partners at the highest level. Secretary of state. It was sought at the highest level. Minister to provide more detailed evidence on this matter, the legal opinion of the legal agreement on the legal advance. It's a little strange to witness that a minister of Iceland's government doesn't seem to distinguish between a letter and a legal opinion. Let it be between parts. Mr. President. On the other hand, two things that a minister said were surprising, one of the reasons why this matter had to be completed, like others before. In fact, members of the council have suggested that this energy package is inseparably introduced, but on the other hand, a legal warning was to consult a committee or a majority of committees. It's a completely new theory, and I need to come to it here later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u169	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with it. This brief visit is made by a senator. The minister of state last night was very peculiar, so it's not strong. In fact, I don't remember a case where any minister has come into a case that he originally proposed and is responsible for, I don't talk about in such a large and controversial case, and I'm walking in the way of the Supreme Court. Secretary of state did here last night. He started by rerouting his old talk points on the subject, adding, in fact, that all the questions in the Middle Class had been answered on the Ministry's home page. All the answers would be available there. This was not merely a matter of disappointment but of concern, for it helped me to see that the minister had not followed a discussion of his own matters. In addition, I am concerned if the Minister himself rely on this information at the Ministry and is convinced that it is sufficient evidence that the council will complete this case here. There was one, because of what. A senator mentioned this peculiar visit that I wanted to ask him about, especially the minister's hearing, i.e. His conspiracy teachings, I think I may call the Norwegians, and some mysterious Norwegian influence. There was nothing else to hear at the highest. Ministers but that this matter and doubts about it in Iceland would all have run from the roots of some Norwegian organization and the Norwegian Middle Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u170	Mr. President. What amazed me most was the lack of truth, and I'm afraid to say the careless thing that seemed to mark the grandest speech. Minister yesterday. I was amazed when I was at the highest. A minister came here and spoke as he did after a long discussion of something important has long been held, with a conflict with a constitution and a power agency associated with the nation's resources. In fact, in the opinion most widely quoted, it is with a measure of simplicity, as said, that foreign authorities were given a choice of fishing resources. It has to be said, as it is strange that a minister thinks it is more urgent in his language to swerve some ideas, not to use the word "diggers, " about some Norwegian element here. He was repeatedly asked what he meant. It's the highest. Minister to refer to the members of Congress, which have discussed this matter? Is he referring to someone in the community? Is he referring to a subversive plant that has sprang up and called himself Our Power? The minister refused to answer these questions, but this strange march remains, causing great disappointment. Of course, people have a good mind. Minister and glad to have him here. We looked forward to his speech and explanations for the many things that have been recorded here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u171	Mr. President. We certainly hoped for that visit, especially in view of the fact that the discussion here at the council has revealed so many new things. And there has been news to-night in that matter. I'd like to mention in any way possible. paritaprevir In fact, by referring to the source material and drawing from the reasonable conclusion that the warnings had no value whatsoever, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson showed that they had no real value. He did this by showing that if a third energy package is approved here, he will be back here and, when introduced into Icelandic law as he looked out in 2017 when he was before the joint EEA committee, long before these imaginary officials of the foreign minister were exposed to the day before the Supreme Court. The minister of state then flew in the head, or whoever put the idea there, that the matter could be solved, and that it could be solved. The members of the Independence Party to cooperate with this by speaking about some warning. It would have been good to have this conversation with the minister, but I heard him, so much as he answered something, that he really believed that this predecessor had some value. I'd like to pray. A senator trying to figure this out with me. It was not that easy to discern where the minister was going. But you're right. A minister still believes that there is a premise and that it has force?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u172	Mr. President. There is a search for the warning, and it is being handled by special knowledge in such activities. I'll trace it further. But we can see, Mr. President, that the legal defense is relatively modern in the case. People would correct me if I was wrong when I said, " He won't be here until the final edition of the Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már, and it's in March. ' In itself, there is an important source of communication between scholars and the Ministry. That's chapter 6 of the 7 of my opinion. It is evident that on the part of the Ministry, discussions of some sort with the scholars they discuss in chapter 6 have been made up of indications. There is reason to review this very precise text in a talk now and later. But that it is said on the part of the government that the case is legal in the case of a conflict with a constitution must be translated, and that it can do nothing else, that there should be no action on this matter, which would have a national value and so be appreciated. We've called upon to contribute a quality of stone, as I've allowed myself to say it, a legal opinion on the national value of the company's capital already and if it is found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u173	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. That caught my attention in a talk. A senator still had a search for answers. He revealed that we were with someone who had quite a knowledge of this area that was now doing that work, would be outside the council hall, but would be doing that work. There seems to be no change in the government's affairs to consider the observations and diagnostics as shown here that there may be no warnings and that they may need to be re-examined if it is intended to put them above their heads, to inform their voters of the utmost sincerity and honesty that there has simply never been a warning in this matter, at least not a warning of national rights, but only for homekeeping of the government that gave the voters a promise, both in their policies but also in the campaign, that this way would not be carried out but also for the public, who are following the national issue. What's a vision. This belongs to a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. After a talk or two. paritaprevir May 15th, Ármannsson, son of Aargian. it was clear that material would need to be searched for that warning. After his speech, a number of speculations have been made - in the university environment, they would say research errors - and they come from a wide variety of sources. A lot of what? Councilmen have played a role in what they seem to be this warning. Of course, we in the Middle East would like to do our part, so that we are so well - versed that we have a member of our council someone who has expertise in various matters. Besides being a lawyer, he has a lot of experience with police work as the police chief and principal of the school. He has, as known by men who have been present and followed by this meeting, brought here milestone reports on the progress of this work. It has to be said that a new capitalist must be in front of a former police officer to identify this new warning that suddenly hung up last night when the highest level of activity. A minister spoke of the legal prefect as being a text somewhere in the opinion of more parts of the Senate Committee. Is the Minister really serious when he says that? Is there any text in the Committee of Parliament to have national rights? We're waiting for the next phase report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, which was very illuminating in the fact that a search is still ongoing. I know for sure that these warnings have been made a death search, but they have not yet been found. But we have not given up all hope, for these warnings are of utmost importance that they exist. It has been revealed by members of the high Council, wherever they stand, that there is a great need for warnings and that they hold without doubt and with full confidence and that these warnings are not to be taken up, especially to national rights and also to national rights. Of course, all of us want AlCollis's work to be both a form and a means of making an examination. With the highest. Minister of state here yesterday, I would like to believe that he did his best to give answers. But what do you think? A senator of that? Were the answers satisfying?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u176	Mr. President. The last question is why. The candidate is quick to answer: The reply of a minister was no doubt given to his best ability and best awareness, but the answers were completely inadequate and must be discussed in a few talks. The issue is thus growing that the legal defense is derived from the government or the Supreme Court. Secretary of state. It is presented as a sort of question about the existence of a legal agent. Then people seek to speak matters that are understandable in many places, and this legal arrangement is sometimes referred to as belts and shoulder bands to emphasize the intensity of all of this in a sledgehammer, guaranteed, and free from danger. What happens yesterday is that after five, maybe seven, ideas about the legal advance may be added to two or even three hypotheses in a recent report. A senator down here by sea. I think this entry is for accurate text analysis, end up a little dark text on chapters. But above all, it must be identified as the highest. Minister said. You would have thought that the search for the warning would not have to be carried on after the Supreme Court. A minister would have made his point. He says the warning is the majority opinion of a Senate committee. I'm not quite sure if it is. A professional committee or a Foreign Affairs Committee. A man would hardly have expected this in advance, but this warning must, of course, take a close look.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u177	President. I continue with my talk about windmills. As I had made a significant report, windmills are closely related to plans for the third energy package. I have also discussed how much demand for energy will grow in the coming years, or about 2% a year, as it has actually done in the past 40 years. Just to answer that growth would require 350,000 huge windmills, which would cover a larger area than Britain's, Britain and Ireland. In view of man's view of wind mills as one of the three main sources of energy in Iceland in relation to its role in Europe's common energy system, a large part of the country would have to be covered to make a difference to someone. But it seems good to say that it is selling electricity produced by windmills. But how environmentally, is this really the case? Take, for example, the production of sails in your own turbins. Because of a huge increase in demand for windmill truffles, whole provinces, especially in China, have been virtually destroyed or destroyed environmentally because of the tremendous mining process required to dig up the metal in these sails. As a result, the release of very substantial amounts of radioactive material is achieved. Then there's the wind mills themselves, the people work like that. It takes 200 times as much material for each unit of energy produced in a windmill as it is for a Barbarian. To obtain the same amount of energy, 200 times more materials are needed by windmills rather than by grovebs. What are some of the elements produced by windmills? Especially steel. But they weigh about 250 tons - 250 tons. And how is this steel made? How do you make 250 tons of steel in one windmill? Yeah, with coal burns, especially in China. Then in Europe we may not have to see it, nor do we have to breathe the smokes of coal, so that we do not take it into account when they talk about how environmentally friendly the windmills are; they simply ignore the emissions produced by the windmills. But about that, it's gonna have to burn. half a ton of coal for each ton of steel produced. And then there is the trade, for to set up every windmill needs huge foundations. As a result, they need huge iron berrys and concrete foundations and bonds between the cigars and electrical signals. During the production of wastes, large amounts of greenhouse gases are released. Semitic production, in fact, is one of the major factors in greenhouse gas emissions and is very interesting how much emissions are being released in this manufacturing process. The conclusion is that before each windmill, about 150 tons of coal must be burned. I wonder if you'll meet your energy demand, the increase in one year's energy demand, simply by adding the windmills, the 350,000 a year I mentioned in a previous speech, you'll have to burn 50 million tons of coal a year. Is Iceland really contributing to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions by becoming a windmill for Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech and the interesting indication that a carbon path, as it is called in modern English, needs to be taken into consideration by different methods of manufacture of electricity. That's kind of what I heard. A senator is talking about. It is often that making decisions on investments intended to increase production, such as during the course of the year. A senator knows, exploitability laid a foundation for the current account, the fruitage factor, and all of that. In fact, as they say, we have come to a place where we are in existence, however, that other factors need to be considered. Environmental considerations are not new. But here we're talking about a environmental point, at least to a certain degree, which can be counted. Just as profiting is something that can be calculated from different criteria, a comparison of costs is something that can be measured numerically in terms of the carbon footprint. This is of utmost importance in climatetime and in the rich will that exists to cope with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u179	Mr. President. You see, it's so impressive that you can do that, at least. estimate it, and counting it, but people just do too little of it. As a result, decisions on climate and energy are not made that produce the most results. On the contrary, decisions are being made based on an image. The windmills provide a fine example of not counting the overall effect. The idea is that it's so environmental, and that's why it comes to buying energy that's produced in this way. Governments in Europe have spent enormous amounts of money strengthening the production of electricity, especially especially, especially by windmills. But how can this be financed? This is financed by a higher energy price. Thus, in many parts of Europe, energy consumption is becoming available. People find themselves in poverty, especially older citizens, because the cost of energy has become high. People can hardly afford to swallow their homes or cook their meals and so forth, including the streets. and most important because governments are spending so much money to support this energy production, even if it is not the same time for the overall impact. So I have serious doubts about the right course for Iceland to have these three pillars for energy production, hydropower workers, aquifers and wind mills, and these three pillars will become some kind of energy farm for Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u180	Mr. President. I find this coverage fresh and novel. A senator on carbon footprints differs in method of manufacture. This is so interesting, and I hope that he will discuss this at the time, if possible, when more people are expected to be observing the discussion than now, from six o'clock Saturday morning. This is a very important and urgent matter. Right away. A senator here begins to talk about electricity production by a cigar gives thought to how that option came up on land, suddenly and even a bit unexpected. It may not have been in every sense exactly what money was made by electricity in this way compared to hydropower production. But I'm just gonna let myself hope that people don't get caught up in the natural requirements here for environmental protection. The exact requirements for doing so need to be considered. I want to use this opportunity to remind you of my inquiry to the highest level. Industrial Minister, who I hope to find the answer as soon as possible, on the number of laboratorys published by the Power Institute in Water Energy and Wind Power and a number of projections. I believe that it may shed a new light on the whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u181	President. I think that's probably what it's gonna do, because this clearly defined amount of production, windmills, has already become a strong indication of what you can expect from this energy package. Suddenly, an application was made to build windmill gardens far and wide around the country. When that information is added as long as possible. A senator is asking for this, and we'll get a more full picture of it. I'm a little afraid that she'll be able to support our concern that investors have realized that, possibly before the government, what the consequences of the third energy package will be. But I couldn't agree more. A senator that it is important to consider the overall picture, and different types of energy must be considered in order to make the most wise decisions. However, it is not a pleasant prospect for us Icelanders that we become some kind of power plant for Europe, produce the energy, and transport it to Europe, where it will be used for industrial development, that there will be windmills for all the dunes, since it does not want left greens all the other roads of hydropowers, or even geological workers. It's been referred to as the addition that can feed this cable, that Iceland will be one largepron mill garden. We are exporting this renewable energy and the Europeans are using it for their industrial development. And then we won't even be able to say that we here in Iceland are producing 100% renewable energy because the energy all goes into one pot, and it's going to be claimed that the energy we use to describe the houses is produced by nuclear energy, coal burns, etc. Then it will be right, because all the energy will come out of the same pot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u182	Mr. President. Thank you. In fact, a senator is eager to present this talk, which is a continuation of a talk he opened earlier this morning. What brings my attention and encourages me to go up here to answer these statistics. A senator has set the table for us. It must be important when we discuss and contribute both to environmental and energy policy. We must bear in mind this remarkable speech and statistical facts about windmills before taking such steps as these mentioned here at the same time that we are discussing that people should stop traveling or having an aerodynamic bite or something like that in Iceland. I also find it very interesting that investors are interested in investing in Iceland in the wind gardens by the carbon tracks that have been described here, and maybe that description isn't over, maybe there'll be an extension of this speech here, I might as well believe it. I find it interesting that they are interested in investing for such sums of money in such countries as Iceland, where there is extra power in the electrical energy system, according to the home page of national activation, is 1.9 TWS, a substantial energy, and, at the same time, electricity prices in that system around the About half of the average European level. So the carbon track, an environmental plan, an electronic energy program, or a energy plan rather, and the prices on the market - could be that there are other things besides producing energy in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u183	President. This is all there can be to wonder about when these two developments take place, on the other hand, this sudden interest in building wind gardens far and wide around the country and the facts. A senator mentioned, these minute facts. We have just tried to find out the basics and facts. This showed that there is considerable excess energy in the electricity system here, and prices are much lower than in Europe. You can only conclude from these two, but you can assume that the energy produced in these windmill gardens will be exported and sold at a considerably higher price than it does and will now have energy in Iceland. It's just too bad that it'll mean that all the other energy will be the same, so energy for households and companies will be increased as a result. In fact, there is yet another argument that is that it is relatively expensive to produce energy through windmills and, in fact, very expensive, compared with energy production by power plants. Thus, people have never thought that windmills would be competitive here in Iceland. But now, with these expectations for this connection and higher energy prices, this is also competitive, and I guess we're not going to consider closer to solar seals and other methods if our vision is to make Iceland some kind of global energy park for Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u184	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. Yes, it is very interesting that at the same time as we have no energy policy and no fully developed environmental policy, there is an increase in investors, interest in investing in systems that are not fully developed in nature and energy regulations, interest in investing in products more expensive than hydropower workers. Then comes the fact that governments are acting out of a lot of intensity, I allow myself to say, to run this case through, to install the third energy package without warning and without proper moisture, because they have declared that it is their will to have a warning. I think it's worth standing here as an Icelander who's interested in protecting the nation's sovereignty and demanding adequate answers until they reach. Or what is meditation? That's what a senator's got to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u185	President. Yes, this is certainly the big issue, the big issue of interest for Icelanders and real sovereignty, that it requires an answer. We were disappointed last night when we were the highest. Secretary of state showed up here. We had thought that he might have something new to tell us or might react to the many factors that have been raised in this discussion that all of us are concerned about our third energy pack. But everything didn't happen. We will not let down our dough, not when it comes to such great national interests. We continue to look for answers and explanations. True, not one member of the board has been able to give a few answers. I'm beginning to fear that it's simply because they don't have the answers. Some of them may listen during the discussion, take a casual look, and feel that the best thing to do is to stand back. I think there was only one incident last night where the executives spoke, I think it was. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has suddenly shown up under the completion of the President's conference board. And he had a few words to say; it was natural to be ashamed of the Middle-class. However, he did not get involved in the discussion, even when his own support was specifically quoted. It's hard to have, Mr. Senator. But it doesn't mean to let the dough down when the interests are as great as the induction of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u186	Mr. President. I'm gonna grab this ball at the head of the board at this meeting. That is correct. paritaprevir The triumphs of Davíð Gunnlaugsson's son, who refuses and refrain from participating in the discussion in a grammatical tone or to argue, protest, refute arguments and practice conversation art, and then participate in the meeting with the President at a conference they do not attend. And then there are others. Councilmen like what? A senator who came into the hall somewhere during the discussion and had front calls for members of Congress. But I had started giving a speech earlier tonight that I did not finish and to see if a government company has the priority for the activation and use of energy resources. What impressed me was a newspaper article written by the U.S. correspondent Rúnar Reynisson. By permission of the president, a news correspondent put it this way: It's not yet been developed for Iceland, and the government has not decided who should use energy resources for public property, state or private property. A service group looking at the design of new innovations, among other things, look at the Norwegians, who became sharers of public enterprises and began to focus on the distribution of private resources. Then it is likely to be done to preserve the nation's ownership of national energy resources. One news correspondent continues, saying: ▪ESA, the EFTA monitoring agency, believes that a pot is broken in charge of the government's energy resources and how access is distributed. Power companies do not pay the government's resources, even if they use public energy resources. Over two years have passed since ESA's decision that non-profit use could include state assistance and violation of EEA contracts. ESAs want the government to determine how to take the cost for use and to look to the market. Also, the future distribution of new licenses. It is reasoned that the 2015 ESA is divided into a selection process where equality is being maintained. Care should be taken to ensure that use period is not longer than required in order to restore the investor along with the appropriate reimbursement. Also, this person must not, according to ESA opinion, be replaced by a newer contract at the end of that time. What, though, does it mean for the investors to get their money back along with the right amount of money? That's a little open word, isn't it? And who's that at ESA? Is it not human beings, like us, who decide what is suitable for profit? Who would make this reasonable profit from the energy produced from the combined resource of a nation that has been activated in the community? Is this a policy we'd like to adopt and introduce through a third energy package and the fourth one in the lake? I see the green light is starting to blink on me. I haven't finished this talk yet, but I intend to continue with it later today. I wish for the highest. I want the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. When Pastor Jón Prímus and Dr. Godman Sýngmann are interviewed, Pastor Jón is told by Dr. Godman Sýngmann: ▪ My great trade, Mundi. And there is a lot of effort to make so - called profit - making evaluations. That industry is taught in college, and a lot of people do research; business, economics; and you yourself are not completely innocent because you have guided people in this regard. There are some of the most elegant programs that make it all very practical. And then there's the magic, like the magic. A senator, both directly and indirectly in his fine speech, began to think that there are different reasons to shoot in and see what the outcome will be. Of course, such interest rates are very delicate - or sensitive - we may be able to say - for the reasons that are laid on the need for profit. Of course, there are weak humans, such as the rest of us, and human beings who perform such assessments, whether at the scene of this respectable institution, the European Commission, as it were. A senator wrote about, or elsewhere. But we also have to keep that in mind and not forget it, so let me say this specifically and direct my case to the point. The senator, that when we discuss these European institutions, the ACER, so called the European energy agency, is not to be forgotten. Because, although we have only an audience at the institution, it is expected that it will have considerable impact on energy decisions here on the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u188	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is what a writer is beginning to wonder, that it is a far-national power to determine any person's interest in an investment that should be limited in time. I know why. A senator is a doctor of economics, and I would like to have the conversation he presented. This interest assessment must be done on the grounds that there is a certain amount of money for itself and then there is the natural time for an investment to be taken into account. And because this has to do with the discussion that was here and is actually still going on, about the windmills that actually have a very short life span compared to other energy workers, which make them more than animal and animal. It would be very interesting to consider how that account would look and how it would affect the entire public if such investments were laid to the foundation of a price to be sold on some particular price to the public and to the company. And the economic and economic impacts resulting from the industry in the country, industrial development and regional policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u189	Mr. President. Sometimes it is possible to identify things indirectly, and those who might not want to risk their way onto the high profits of interest could best respect the behavior of those who bear the job name or are often called investors, I don't talk about if it's so-called international investors. When we see investors turning their eyes toward the wind power and looking for research sources and activation sources, we see that it is indirectly reflecting that these people have submitted with a profit - making estimate of how to be profited and profited for them to produce their own pound, as it may be. Those who have submitted a request for a test license and activation permit when it comes to wind energy clearly concluded that their funds were well spent and that such activities will be profitable. The messages there are naturally clear. But this may be true, since we are speaking of it, loose and bound, and after the words that fell from the part of the body. A senator will think of the lack of much more stable energy policy in this aspect, as do so many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u190	Mr. President. There we go. A senator into very interesting things about how international investors should show this great interest but not necessarily domestic, they too, but especially international. Which reminds me of the fact presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Sæmundsson For about 24 hours or so, perhaps more, the Bloomberg news news reports that the most profitable investment companies in the Western world are down in Iceland in the energy sector. If we reason that it is most practical to invest in Iceland, an island without a starving energy market, and that the policy of the government is to keep a sea cable under way and it's even taken so deep in the years that it will not be laid, and that on this designated island there is a price for energy. Half of what is known in Europe - and probably a dream to plan to take sea cables to America, though it may happen in an unpredictable future, at least not in the lifetime of the present. - Doesn't it raise certain suspicions that this is a drive-by policy that should be used by the trustees?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u191	Mr. President. Yes, I find this discussion very interesting, and I think it was very neglected in this large case, i.e. these commercial interests of the nation when it comes to the introduction of a pack of three energy. The main lines of the discussion, especially at the beginning, have become a subject of legal opinion. However, the problem with this discussion is that it is homologous, and it is about whether these legal laws are kept, etc. So here is a very interesting aspect of this matter, these business interests, and reasons for a careful review. Once an energy package has been introduced, if it becomes reality, the ACER and the whole network around the energy and its distribution will be activated when the cable becomes reality. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that business interests have been too small to discuss in this context and that it is not one of the reasons why the case should be delayed until the fall, discussing the nation's business interests far more detailed than has been done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u192	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the short answer to that question is yes. I think there's a lot of lack that this has been discussed. The country has a lot to do with it. The resources discussed are part of the nation's property. What lies below, too, is the transport system of electrical energy. The changes resulting from a change in energy-related law environment through the induction of a pack of energy are that they will have a major impact on the disposition and use of the energy resource and the distribution system, which is owned by the nation and the nation has invested in. As a nation, we have put in it both work and intelligence and taxation on the ground that it would return to the nation for the long future, not for some subsidiary payment that in the stream of time would be considered as if it were never worth what we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u193	Mr. President. Yes, I think exactly that these business interests and the nation's commercial interests have not been examined sufficiently when it comes to the induction of the energy package. Of course, all aspects of the matter need to be considered. This whole thing needs to be examined. Let us not forget that low energy prices and high standard of living are always common. Well, we're looking to the future. I told it here earlier tonight that it is now the problem, it seems to be with Icelanders and governments here, that there is not enough future vision, as nations do, as it were. Chinese people, if not centuries in advance, look at tens of them. Then you wonder: " Is it not true that there could be a higher standard of living here? That with the induction, when a cable is in place and it will all be up and running, energy package three, followed by a pack of four energy, would we really be cutting down the standard of living for generations to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u194	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for the second answer. Yes, I think that's the point, that this needs to be discussed. This is to be discussed, and should be naturally discussed and inserted into this total energy policy and should therefore be followed by very detailed technical data. We need to realize, when we travel energy policies, what happens if we lay down a cable. Let's assume that it is the real will of the government not to lay down cables and be on notice so that it will not be considered until the Icelandic people want it, then and then, and already, granting us that we are in that location, although I think it is unlikely, that some years later, we want to put a sea cable - Britain has left the European Union, but we lack energy and we are in a mortal capacity to sell energy through an ocean cable to the British. We've decided to put it on our own terms to Britain. So, then, do we not have to realize how much energy it takes to feed as large and as large as this amount of energy? And the resistance? How much nature can carry, e.g. considering the population forecasts for Iceland, because we won't be 350,000 to the whole future, we'll increase? We need enough energy for the nation first. What, then, is leftover to sell, and how much money can be accessed? I think it's normal and healthy to take this discussion and examine the overall vision in a much larger context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u195	Mr. President. Yeah, I think this case has got way too little attention on this big case, i.e. the commercial and economic impacts that the source of the energy package will provide for the future economy of the nation. This is a big case because it is about the future, with regard to future generations. By accepting this package of energy, we are saying that we are going to be participants in this large market area, using our energy resources in this regard. It's a big, big decision that's being made by this induction. It may be true that the consequences will not be obvious here or now, but within a few years. Once the transponder connection has arrived, the induction activates all of the terms of this energy package and ACER, the supranational agency that will control the energy flow, energy prices, etc. It is very important in my mind to discuss national impacts and consequences. The next assurance is that what is practical for the European Union in electricity is not practical for Iceland. The interests are at odds. It's just a completely different arrangement, a different setting we have. These markets are not compatible with our interests. I think we have made it clear in the discussions that have taken place on this subject. After the linking, after the cable has arrived - and it must be considered, it must not be stored until later, as the government groups have spoken. They just say, it doesn't have any effect. However, if there were a situation where requests would arise, then the Allied Parliament will decide, and then we will take up this administrative notice, etc. You can't make this case that way. You have to look at the bigger picture. It's what's important in this, looking at the bigger picture. It is that we are linked to a market of 500 million people. After this connection, the European Union will have a direct competition for home and employment in the European Union. Of course, it is unfair because the economy European activities are enjoyed by the presence at the market is far more than we Icelanders have access to. Since the market draws closer, it provides a much higher priority for activities in the European Union than for industrial companies in this country. Then we have the natural house warming in Iceland. It is far more energy efficient than it is in the European Union, and therefore energy needs in the European Union are far greater than households in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] I see time is up and I can't finish, but I'd like to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u196	President. One thing like that. A senator named me. In fact, it is a point that I have considered before I have not yet discussed a talk. But already it is. A senator mentioned it to me that one of the things you worry about, and, in fact, a considerable concern, with the nature of this case is, like, a quirk. A senator noted that the effects may not be immediately evident. It makes it harder to explain how dangerous it is. But it also causes the government to assume that she can only allow this to go through and then it's gonna work out. Of course, that attitude is often appropriate, and it can benefit us Icelanders well to imagine that things are going around. But it is not always wise to approach things in that way. Sometimes it's said that the Chinese think up to the age of 300 or 500, I don't know what's best for them. At least they are known for their long - term thinking, making decisions accordingly. Here, however, I fear that the greater part is to make a decision without realizing long - term effects, and I'm just going to have it because the effect will not come until some other time. Then they may be out of the government, and the effects will appear, not suddenly, but progressively, even as a result of the third energy package. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me in this opinion, that this may be one of the explanation that the government is just going to let it go? They reason that this may not be effective as soon as the effects are lasting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u197	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think he's quite right about what he's eating. First of all, the public will not realize the consequences because the matter is just not sufficiently enlightened. But I think the same applies to politicians, and I think that's a good point. That's what's gonna work out. Just like the highest. The minister of state said today: We will discuss this administrative issue immediately and if the cable comes. It'll be all right. It is a thought that should not be given in such a big and important way. Compare this to an energy package one and two. If you talk to the civilian today and he starts to complain about the electric price, how high it is: he probably doesn't know about it, or I don't doubt it, that the root of the electric price beings has become this high is an energy package one and two. Then these big increases came. The very same thing happened here with the executives who called out here when I gave my first speech and informed me that the power prices to the households had increased by a dozen percent at the source of a energy package one and two. They said it was just wrong. First, they have not studied, and some of them were only as children when this induction was made. So we'll see, like, cot. A senator correctly mentioned, it is absolutely necessary to look ahead and look ahead and see what the consequences will be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u198	President. I think it's kind of creepy. If available and available, simply refer to a sheet or tablet or to an electrical account. A member - if a member of the board allows himself to insist that this is just not true, what can be shown on paper; no, this is just not true - what does it tell us about the people's whole attitude toward the matter? That's very embarrassing, Mr. President. But because we were discussing the long - term effects and that they may not immediately appear and there are certain dangers, I don't know if they are. A senator has seen an article I ran into in the Morning Press since 2002. It is about one of the energy packages, called at the time other EU electricity directives. It was not nearly as burdensome or extensive as the third energy package. However, there were members of Parliament at the time who warned about this induction, including Björn Bjarnason. I don't have time to read from that article. But most recently, it is reported that all the warnings that were presented here were given during the day; about the impact of energy prices, on the effects of the national environment, on the potential to use Landing and its energy production to promote industrialisation in the country, especially in the country. All the warnings mentioned in this interview came during the day. However, there is no explanation as to why this was necessary, except that the minister of the day's foreign affairs, Valgerður Sverrisdóttir, said that the European Union had to do so before a specific date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u199	Mr. President. What's more: When we look back, to the induction of electricity laws in 2003, the council, the minister, and the Ministry did not even know that electricity prices at home would go up. It sums up the natural point, and I mean a pack of energy, to produce something that had no idea what would affect the public. And besides that, we went further than we had to do in dividing these companies. There were no exceptions because of our special status or anything. It should also be noted that when this was done, the energy companies objected to this exchange. There was no listening. It was just this fear of respect for the European Union: we have to do this completely and quietly because the European Union says so. Because it's part of the EEA deal. Sometimes you wonder if those in charge at the time have read or understood the EEA deal. It's just a ◯concrete, a clean and specific provision that we could have applied to ourselves, the law of the law, and pointed to our uniqueness, which we could have replaced at that time, during those years. But no one thought of it once. Which tells you that you are very afraid that the same thing is true now about a pack of three energy, that it must just be introduced, even though it has a negative impact on us, because everything else is upset, i.e. However, the EEA contract, which, once again, has a way of achieving a common outcome, which we do not use, rather than the previous day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u200	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, this is an interesting discussion, and it is getting deeper and deeper. In this regard, it is interesting to discuss the rise in electrical prices and who actually pays for those increases. There will be taxpayers. I wanted to associate only with the discussions that have been about the windmills and whether they were really considered an option to connect the electronic transport system in Iceland, but I've only been looking at windmills after that. paritaprevir My interest earlier this evening was aroused by Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson in the priming work. It is the nature of a wind power garden that can produce about 200 MW, when best, what we would call for English tongue, by permission of a president, 0MW, but falls into 0 MW at times. For about 20% of the time, according to the number I was looking at, such a wind power garden can produce by this maximal efficiency. However, the transport system of electrical energy, which needs to connect such a wind power garden, needs to be able to carry maximal efficiency at any time because electricity is produced at a certain time and must be transported to what needs to be used at the same time. It cannot be stored in the windmill, as if we were actually able to steer it in the central pool, as we do in the hydropower activations. I might get to carry on with this in my second answer. But I wanted to ask. Senator...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u201	I think it's better to add one speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u202	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator, there is quite a difference between this energy production, i.e. the hydropower and its manufacturing methods and then the wind power again. But what is the natural core of all of this is the price of the electrical energy to homes and companies. That's what's important to the public in the country. The price is to raise because, as we've traced here, the check fee is to rise. It will be started immediately after this has been approved. It hasn't been calculated how much it is, and I think it's a fault not to have anything to do with raising a lot of money. Then there is the need to connect these power plants to the distribution system when they are started. In accordance with a pack of three energy, this cost cannot go to the source of energy. He will then go to the man who is responsible for the network, and then he will enter the prices, and in the end it is the public of the city. That's for sure. The river's water has elevated levels, although the cable will not come soon. You're right to keep it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u203	Mr. President. I apologize for losing sight of my time here in excitement and excitement. But what I was trying to do and the question I wanted to throw at him. A senator, as soon as I thank him for the answer, was responsible for the structure of the public network and the cost of it, i.e. a distribution system that needs to be able to transport this energy. These may be more wind parks than we are judged to refer to a single wind range that produces a maximum yield of 200 MW - but nothing at all, and 20% of that 200 MW time. The distribution system must be built up to handle this. The cost must not be to the person who makes the energy, the source of energy, but to the distribution system owned by the public in Iceland that receives it. The EU regulations and laws under which the EU is fully implemented, as stated in the decision of the joint EEA committee, are quite clear that this cost will be reviewed to the general public. Is the Icelandic public willing to pay the price? Is it a government policy to invite the public with this induction that electrical prices will rise? And for what? Is this an advantage for the public or for the financial workers of the environment at work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u204	The president has an understanding of why. When the discussion proves to be as hot as any other person is, a senator gets caught up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think the point is that the public has not been asked. Let's say that there are elections coming, and we tell voters: We're going to implement a directive that means the power will be raised to homes, and we don't come about to determine what is available for the energy and how much of it will be removed from the country. I just think it's perfectly obvious that a political party that would deliver a message to the public would not get a track walk or anything like that. This shows us, Mr. President, the need to evaluate how this matter will affect the interests of the households and the economy as a whole. It hasn't been done, and I think it's part of not postponing this case, that it should be delayed and done exactly how this will affect the economy and the public in the country. We're to learn from experience by installing a energy package one and two that was just run in and done quickly, without knowing what the consequences would be to the public when it came to electrical prices. Governments and Ministers give away statements that do not make any progress, that there is no evidence here to make any rise. Something else truly happened during the day. We're here to learn from this experience, Mr. President. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u206	Mr. President. I think it's true, too, in view of the highest. The minister of state showed up at the council hall yesterday and discussed this matter in his own way, and the need to draw together large lines. There's no way to tell the highest. The minister of state or supporters of this case is envious of the situation of having a legal opinion, very careful of all types. Regarding the constitution component, the conclusion is that there is considerable doubt that this source of a three - pack energy package meets the guidelines for the Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. The result is two-way. Real doubt. Such words have great meaning in documents of the kind we are talking about, such as the legal opinion of ministers in the nation's natural and delicate interests. A serious question, Mr. President. Second place is the highest. Secretary of State and supporters of this matter in the position that they have been addressed in the above legal opinion by the legal bodies of the Government's legal advisers, the Friðrik's Árni Frildurksson Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, to agree with this Councilment Directive of the Foreign Minister, which includes the Regulation of the European Union No. 713/2009 gets legal values in Iceland, and the consequences will be that foreign institutions will receive at least An indirect effect, as it is said, precisely worded, on an organization of the preparation and use of national energy resources. They have this document in their hands. They have this conclusion in their hands. This conclusion is well supported, as it was in a careful legal opinion. It is well supported by a reference to the individual regulations No. 713, with the greatest attention to articles seven, eight, and nine. Just for appeals and as a reminder for those who are following this discussion: Ordering, as it is called from the European Union, means law, as we talk about things. I have to admit, I thought it was the best. The minister of the minister of the State is rather uncontaminated with these findings and did not fully realize that these were the natural conclusions of the legal advisers whom he himself called and seemed to credit to others in their own case, saying that they had come to that conclusion, when those who have noted this, as I have done several times, have done nothing but give a witness to the legal advisers of the government themselves. V.E.G. Also, the minister of state could not explain what political commission he, or his party, or any of the government groups would have to make decisions that might run into a constitution and that will include a waive of Icelandic energy resources to the extent described in this legal opinion toward foreign citizens. Where is the political authority to do that? Who spoke for this third energy package for the last election? Nobody. What kind of class releases are these categories of government? They're not that way, on the contrary. One more factor is to mention, and that is to the top. The minister of foreign affairs was asked according to the basic policy change in foreign affairs that he foretells. The policy has been: It is possible to negotiate access to market market markets in a mutual way, but it is not to be considered access to resource access, as is a thorough review by Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, former minister of state, who is represented as a Senate document in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u207	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Unauthorised Ólafur of Ísleifsson for his diagnosis of words. Secretary of state the second part today. Hv. A senator took note of what he calls a political agency and asks himself where the government party is appointed to implement the rule of the European Union's energy directive, where legal advisers of the government have pointed out that regulations in this order - specifically mentioned in Article 7, 8 and 9. Regulation No. 713/2009 - which they consider to be a serious doubt about the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, No. 33/144. Where does this come from? He explained that, according to the advice of these experts, the government would hang the matter on so - called legal notice. Then the entire control risk that we have been pointing out would be pushed aside, and we would be free of it. What do you think? A senator and an interpreter of the highest order. The minister of foreign affairs that we are now working to determine whether he has mentioned it, or has it come to know who this legal arrangement is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u208	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. I believe that this is quite clear regarding the following: The legal agent is here because of the legal conclusion that there is considerable doubt on the question of whether the energy inputs meet the requirements of the Constitution. That's why this legal arrangement is foreordained. Rather, it is designed to counteract it, or it is designed to ensure that this induction is in keeping with the regulations of the constitution. This is the purpose of this legal advance. Since May 15 of the past, the search for this legal advance has been under way. I'm working very hard, and I'm not explaining any secret, although I'm reporting from the fact that the Central Party wants to put its attention to this subject, and I'm so happy to have a member of its council of a legally trained man who's as well as experienced in police work, who has been a police officer for years in the Western Islands. And he has also supervised training in police studies and police training as headmaster of the school. I think it would be most helpful to him in his investigation and the search that I know he has had by hand to this legal notice, i.e. His legal education and police experience. Hv. A senator has come here to report what his investigation has received. But new facts are always being developed in this case, including the most peculiar statement. Secretary of State last night on the legal advance as some text in a committee list. But I expect that in his next talk, there will be some confusion. A senator explains his research and the main method of research he uses in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u209	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for the answer. V.E.G. The minister of state was asked where the legal warning was yesterday - we are now trying to make and print his answer, but it is not quite complete - and it seemed to point out the opinion of the government's legal adviser. He pointed to an opinion in which this text appears, that this will be done legally - which the experts intended for the government. However, the government, as I already reported, points to this text in the opinion of the experts. So it seems to me that this case is in a circle because the experts are going to give this government a warning. But one answer at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was an indication of this text in his opinion. It's about as far as I'm concerned. But it's under investigation. Hv. A senator also mentioned this in a talk this morning to the point. A senator in the south with the sea would have informed us about where to find this legal warning. I have a print for that entry. That's where it says "woe." A senator claims that the legal person is lying with a professional health committee. This is totally new, and of course it needs analysis. So I ask. A senator is aware of this, since he is on a professional committee, and whether he has seen this legal advance on that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u210	Mr. President. I think it's part of an investigation. A senator and a former police officer to enter after an event at the scene. Business committee. I can tell you that there is no text in a committee party that I recall being introduced as a legal provider at the Committee meeting. But it's a natural job for a man. Because these legal warnings flow a bit of fear and excitement in, a senator strives for all of this. Explain why. A man in the south with a measure of trouble and dark text must be recognized, on a means of communication that many know, shows that it seems very convincing who these legal warnings are. But I also assume that the rest of us may not be as far along in law as well. A local senator with seawater finds this difficult to grasp and fully understand each step. A senator is leaving. But I'm going to hope for a legal knowledge and experience. Hjaltason The police and police police work will be sufficient to clarify this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u211	The president assumes that the senator referred to has a name. If such references are cited to members of the council, it may be known who they are, although it may be enjoyed by humans, would be a minor matter to mention them with a full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u212	President. Hv. A senator named Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson and his very frank report on this matter. In this regard, I would like to point out that there have been quite a few who experienced the former politicians who have been involved in this discussion. From the left side, there is Ögmundur Jónasson, a warning from the market of energy, and actually Hjörleifur Guttormsson, who warns about the dangers posed by a third energy pack. Jón Baldvin, above mentioned, will be working on Europe and will describe the dangers of going down course of the third energy package. An advance class includes such men as the Guðni of Ágústsson and Frosti Sigurjónsson, who form the potential dangers of national settlements if this third pack of energy is approved. And from the right men, such as Davíð the son of Oddsson and Sturla the son of Böðvarsson, former president of the Aldulis, who spoke of the importance of defending independence and sovereignty, defending the law. It tells me it's a pretty big deal, that third energy package. It is bad that experienced men from left to right strongly object to it on the various grounds, yet all fundamentally in their policy and political visions. In fact, it must be historical, which is almost bad enough to cause concern in humans from left to right, which is considered to be the fundamental basis for their ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u213	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to know that when I referred to what I had to say. Of course, I meant Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I'm sorry I didn't mention her name and thank you... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u214	It'll do a thing anyway. The case of a woman was no better for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u215	I'm not sure I've heard exactly what the president said, but all of his counsel is, of course, well subject. But if I have the permission of a president to continue my speech, I have to say this afterwards. paritaprevir Sigmundur's winners, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, are truly true that those who have made powerful objections to the third energy package come from all over the realm of political light. I've had a chance to sit a few meetings in an organization that calls itself our Orcs and there are some of them that go. A senator mentioned, but not all of them. It must be said that it is unusual for such a situation to develop that it promotes the same spirit of people of different political backgrounds and people who may have been long - lasting political opposers at the Council. And also, there is the turmoil that is clearly felt by society to be a sign of great concern for this matter, as there are major questions, problems with the constitution and dissociation of the power of foreign institutions, in relation to the opinion of the members of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u216	Mr. President. I think it's right to add a little something, because it's not enough for these experienced politicians, from left to right, to pay attention to the induction of the third energy package, to say the least, because most classes, at least All of the government groups, strongly oppose the introduction of the third energy package and the general public. Much of the country's population is opposed to this induction. So I ask: Can't I argue that what we members of the Central Party are doing in this discussion is trying to produce democratic will? We are trying to reach the democratic conclusion in this case and allow the democratic will to have its share. And speaking of the supporters of these political parties, it seems that today on the Independence Party, I understand. He's 90 years old. We congratulate the lndependence Party party. It allows party members an opportunity to meet and hopefully meet as most members of the party. We must hope for that. It's not what. A senator agreed that when the members of the Independence Party meet the voters of the Party, meeting with the independents, members of this council will present this to these members of the council that they must, in order to protect themselves. The independent policy, turning down this third energy package? That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that? Does he place hope in this festival day of independence?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u217	Mr. President. An answer to a what? A senator calls out two types of comments. First of all, it is only a very serious question of which democratic government agencies are in order to agree with this package of energy. Because they did not acquire any such commission in the last election by speaking to such a case and presenting to voters that it was their policy that this energy package should be introduced, with the consequences that we see him as the legal advisers of the government itself. I'll join you in a good night's work. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon to the Independence Party and Independence Day of the 90th birthday party. The party was formed here at the General Assembly by members of the Maintenance Party and one member of the Liberation Party. I allow myself to say on my personal terms that the matter is a little related to me because I have been joined by members of the Party at the time by my mother's father, Jóhann Jósefsson, and I have always been very proud to have a grandfather who helped to establish the Independence Party, which for a long time was a well - established and very important factor for the political life of the country, and has led a great many benefits. Of today's birthday celebration, I certainly hope that those who are elected members of the party will respond well. This is now a time when an independent party has had to contend with a type of efflux problem in a particular way, so to speak. But I'm going to say that most people who have at least one of those levels agree to the basic policy that the Independence Party has held on to most of the time from an institution are totally opposed to the induction of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u218	The president is now not entirely certain that the 90th anniversary of the Independence Party, let alone 90 years ago, has a direct connection with the third energy package, but now it is all right to wish the party's happiness from the chair, if one chooses to do so, and to know that they are happy. A senator comes with a good mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u219	Mr. President. Nothing is more beautiful than spring night in Reykjavík. For a few days now, I've had the opportunity to stay down here in downtown Reykjavík in the morning and in the morning until now, like this morning, and watch the Tjörn on a very beautiful spring morning, and I promise that the morning in Reykjavík is no less than the spring night. And on this beautiful day, it is appropriate, because this is my first talk at the Christian time this day, to congratulate the Independence Party on the 90th anniversary. Make the most of it possible to have a successful, meaningful meeting, or some sort of meeting, that I understand they will later have today. I was in the final speech on the origin of electrical power, which is an extremely interesting subject and is linked to the introduction of a third EU energy package in many ways, in a remarkable way, especially with regard to prices and possible changes in the value of electricity in the European Economic Area. I went over it earlier today that I had sent the highest. The query for travel, industrial and innovation ministers last November. which was answered now for the right month, which contains very interesting information on the exact origin of responsibilities. But the initial responsibility for electricity is, this is an inexplicable word, if we speak our language, just proof, written or electronic, for the origin of the electricity being purchased or used by renewable energy sources. In other words, it is possible to present a certificate in the European Economic Area and thereby prove that the energy being used for employment comes from renewable sources, which are considered extremely positive in the European Union, which can make companies that produce products with such a certificate easier by trade and sale by their manufacturing product. It doesn't have to be translated, Mr. President, that the company that may be run in France or Italy, is actually receiving energy from a water drop plant, but it may be a nuclear plant next to the factory and that energy may be brought directly into the factory. So, in real life, it doesn't have to be that the manufacturing company is using energy from hydrofall plants, it may be coal or nuclear power plants. But with the proof they give and - the genius of this - it can buy from electric plants that resuscitately produce energy for money, even if it is entirely different. That's been a lot of discussion. I'm very interested in this case, and I'll be talking a lot more about it. This has been a big part of the discussion because it has been introduced here in Iceland and has been done here many years ago, that Icelandic power plants, such as Landactivation and more people, have come into this market and can sell these certificates of pure energy and they sell these certificates to Europe. They're selling it for money. One question I asked a minister about this very issue: How much has this been sold from here? How much money has been paid for this? What is the price of a Per megahour and other such? So this is very interesting. I eagerly look forward to continuing to analyze in detail the answers to the highest degree. Industrial, innovation and employment minister here at the next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u220	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason very much for this upcoming speech. The matter is particularly interesting and one of the things to discuss with the third energy package. I have not studied this constant letter, so to speak, for any benefit. I know they exist and have known for some time, and how they work. But I haven't studied them in the depth of my time. A senator has, in fact, sent a inquiry and received an answer from the Ministry. But what I want to know and maybe talk about, if it's true. A senator knows, is: When did we decide to sell this source of energy from Iceland to other countries or to other sources of energy? Why are we in a position that is actually less of the energy we use here as pure energy? I think I'd be right and care if it happened. A senator could tell me about the two things: When did we start this? And how much energy do we produce today that counts as pure according to these letters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u221	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Thor Þorvaldsson Thorddsson for a good question. It is my pleasure to try to answer it. I've been studying an answer for the highest. A minister who is extremely detailed in most respects, but not everything. I have thought about looking for answers to the questions that arise when reading an answer. A minister I feel lack of. According to law on responsibilities of origin, no. 30/2008, people can study it - it's 11 years since these laws were set up here and ended with these EU rules - each unit of responsibility measured in MWst. , but 1,000 kWst. is one MWst. And a thousand MWst. is one GWst. , but 1,000 GWst. is one TWest. So this is a tremendous amount of energy when talking about the TWest. During 2017, foreign parties were sold to 14.8 TWst. They were sold out of the country, their responsibilities, their certificate. For that matter, it was estimated, in response to a minister in 2018, that the income of the electricity companies here has been between 800 and 850 million. As a result, this is a substantial amount of money for an Icelandic electronic company, which in many respects is very good. But I ask about the effects and consequences of this system in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u222	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is really interesting. If I understand why. This is something that happens every year, the senator is able to sell these Witnesses. Or buy a company one time and keep it forever, or how does this system work? And so it is that it may even be practical to start producing energy, even if the recipient is not necessarily present or the product is not uniform, such as e.g. wind power, to sell such writing? Is the amount really that much? Or how does it work? You can't really get over it, what it's probably thinking. I'd like to direct that inquiry to what. Senator. Is this thinking an incentive for companies to use clean energy rather than dirt? But what's the real reality if you can really just buy yourself this kind of letter despite getting involved with a nuclear power plant or an oil - power plant? That's what I'm thinking about. I wonder what. A senator can answer this, or whether it is in the ministry's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u223	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I am pleased to try to answer it. It is, in many respects, a system designed for areas such as Europe, geographically very dense and is truly brilliant in that respect, but has two sides. Of course, it is good for an enterprise to be able to show that the energy they use is renewable and clean, and to prescribe a certificate to its buyers or businessmen, that they use such energy even if the reality is quite different. It is the gate facing the customers who want to show that they have a product produced by energy that has this origin. The other side of the coin is the point. And the purpose of the European Union by implementing these rules is, of course, and clearly, that this will also encourage the electric producers to produce energy in a environmental way and by renewable energy, such as a water drop, because it will be more demand for it and they will gain more money for it. So the price of electricity simply goes up, reducing the potential cost of energy produced, I allow myself to say, in a dirty way, Mr. President, because there's less demand for that kind of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u224	Mr. President. I have to admit, I don't quite understand that. A senator is telling us: How can a company that, for example, can. producing energy through coal burns obtained proof that it produces environmentally friendly energy? If we were to use agriculture similitude, it's like if a chicken farm in Iceland always had everything in tip-to-tips and never reading salmonella, and then there was another chicken farm somewhere in Europe that might have been having trouble with Salmonella and such infections -- could this European chicken farm buy the rights of that Icelandic to claim to be salmonella free, but the chickens might still have salmonella? I don't completely understand this system, Mr. President, and I'd appreciate it if it happened. A senator would explain it better to me and perhaps answer a question that undeniably arises when he hears a description. A senator: Is that not an illusion? Is it not a matter of being deceived if a person gives proof that the energy is produced in something quite different from what it really is? In case of a moment. A senator's view is that this is a delusion, that it is an admirable delusion? Does he think this is a positive arrangement? Does it worry him that this could lead to thinking that we Icelanders are producing energy with coal burns, which we haven't done quite a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u225	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So did Davíð, Gunnlaugsson for the question. Yes, the answer to whether these are praiseworthy deceptions, part of this system, part of it, not all, is: Yes, they are. A French company makes clothes, let's say, using electricity that comes from a nearby nuclear plant in the real world. Our clients complain and say, "It's impossible, I can't be buying your socks, you use energy from a very dirty plant near you. I'd rather shop with a sock producer in Iceland, where pure orcs are used. The factory, the sock factory in France, goes to the market, opens the market, is responsible, not by electrical energy, but by the certificate - where National Industry is offering for sale from Iceland, this clean and fine testimony, proving that Landing is producing energy in an environmentally and renewable way - and buying a certificate. She may have to pay more if there's a demand for these Witnesses, and then she can show her buyer, who may be in the United States or somewhere else in the world: I'm producing these socks in a environmentally friendly way, using the electronic energy that is renewable, and here I am the Witness's reputation. Even if reality is different. As a result, Mr. President, the Icelandic sock producer has no access to this proof unless he buys it. This is an admirable delusion in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u226	Mr. President. That's something very special, isn't it? But what if it were a clothing producer in Iceland who was making socks and wanted to sell them? Could he not claim, then, that he was producing the socks using pure renewable energy because he had sold the right to claim to be producing the product with pure energy? Then the sins that the French sold for example are accepted by national inactivation. A senator? I also wondered if this may be done, this arrangement, in preparation for the European common electrical system, where all the energy is expected to go into one pot, a pot of energy, so to speak, and it is sold from that pot at the standard price? When that is the case, you might say that it was right for us Icelanders and Icelandic companies to buy energy that would be made by nuclear or coal burns or other sources because we were buying from this common pot. However, this is not the situation today, so you wonder if this is part of a plan for this future view, one energy source for the European Union, where everyone buys from the same source of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u227	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. You're absolutely right, and you're right about what you're talking about. A senator considering the matter. It is difficult to understand in many respects because this is really a delusion in that sense so that it is not real. It's not real, though you may present proof that you use the energy generated from renewables, you can only present this certificate. In that respect, it is a delusion. Yet, in many respects the system can be designed in a brilliant way. That brings thought to it. A senator came to see, considering that this is an preparation for the common energy system in Europe. My answer to that question is unsatisfied: You think about it when you study this system of proof that there's a vision behind it that's the one that's like a dog. A senator said without hesitation. They're creating prices on product, product prices, energy produced in a renewable way because it's positive. The demand for this product, which is the proof, will increase, and the price of this energy will increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u228	Mr. President. Now I'm going to do a story on a case that I've never been on before, almost nothing, but I'm very striking with regard to this third energy package. I refer to an article published in the Morning Press under the European Code for the shipment of rights. This article writes Gunnlaugur SnærÓlafsson and it is quite remarkable in this article, and it's informative that I'm going to have to take a little action in it, with permission of the president. It says: ▪ A new form of water spills owned by a state, and a community for electricity production can mean that there will be a new agreement at the end of a contract. This confirms the Guðni of A. Jóhannesson's energy administrator. Have such agreements already been made to privateized companies, but the agreements will in the future also be done on the rights of public power companies. In 2016 the Icelandic government reported on EFTA, ESA, that laws requiring the provision of market prices for public use of natural resources were required to produce electricity. It also stated that all relevant contracts would be revised so that the rest of the contract period would be paid by an electronic company. That same year, a group of four advisers were appointed to respond to and continue to respond to ESA instructions. Then there's a subheading: Command. It says, by permission of the president: The European Union's Management Board was designed to ensure that a fair price is obtained for the use of natural resources and was adopted in the Community some time ago. However, when new agreements ran over the course of time, differences between more Member States and the European Commission were made on how to renew written agreements and announced to the Commission on March 7 that it had appealed to the treaty violations against Austria, France, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Britain and Italy for not attending open invitations of waterfalls and related water sources. Last month, union unions in France reported work on the hydro-enforcement workers owned by the State Energy Corporation EDF in an effort to protest the Commission's lawsuits in which the budget is considered to be the sole source of the flow rights of water currents, which are largely used by the EEA.156. This is amazing, Mr. President. This cannot be seen other than that it is the European Union's drive for privateisation and that the right to use the activation option will be extended. In other words, this involves revolution, fundamental transformation, a negative revolution, the arrangement we've had in Iceland where public societies have been able to attack activation projects, and then sell energy at high prices. It is interesting to note that in France unions have seen reasons to protest against the European Union and its involvement in the European Union - men considered it to be, in effect, a sort of privatization of the French state power business. There have been a number of warnings that the third energy package includes the market of energy, and we have pointed out, members of the Central Party, that this created a real risk for these companies that we own in Iceland in public. But here we are here merely the real thing: treatal covenants appeal to 12 European countries. And this is no small kingdom. It's even France, Germany, and Britain, so we can imagine where we would stand, Icelanders, if we were considered to be fragile.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A very interesting speech for a senator is worth considering. Hv. A senator mentioned negotiations with the aluminium companies. Its district has an important workforce and, to be honest, has had a very positive effect on industrial development and Eastern based, and there was no shortage of this, unfortunately, signs that the population could be reduced in that area. The amount of production that was temporarily down there, but the company changed the status of the East and is a very important workforce. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is one of the things that have not been carefully studied in this case, in my opinion, and this is the impact on society, i.e. the impact of the energy package induction on the whole community. We've discussed effects on the homes of the country and the businesses, i.e. The smaller companies. We've identified the electrical price. But in the east, it's got a big company in this area, and more people are on the team, as we know. Counts 'em out. A senator, that there is a great danger that after the induction, and when a cable arrives, that business may even end its operations? We are naturally looking after hundreds of jobs and a significant economic impact if these contracts were to be revised, which could then lead to the decision to leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u230	Mr. President. In the long run, that seems to be a very real danger. And before I get to the point of it, it's time to reiterate it as a dog. A senator only admitted that if we hadn't had a national activation in what form we have that business and couldn't offer energy for the competitive price offered by Land activation, there would have been no discussion of man's building this plant on the Eastland, and then it would have been expected that people would have watched for continued recession in communities there. But they succeeded in achieving an enormously important reversal with that project. But if the situation becomes that the energy must be exported and sold at this standard European prices, much higher prices than this one, and we can no longer boast about being production or selling environmentally friendly energy alone, because everything goes in the same pot, as it happened by the water. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason earlier, Iceland's competitive leader is just gone. But we're stuck with the transport costs being added if the production takes place here. So why shouldn't aluminium be more active at the market, where the traders have factories? In other words, men might as well build an elf or move to Germany, they were buying the same energy they were buying at the same price as if they were in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u231	Mr. President. That's exactly a very interesting analysis. Senator. In the end, our advantage in such activities will be accomplished. It is true that while energy becomes more expensive in Europe, it will still be more practical for companies to be there, in close proximity to the market as easily as possible. A senator rightly mentioned. The cost of transport is reduced, and various factors play into it. But they could buy clean energy in Europe, just like this one in Iceland. Although more expensive in Europe than in Iceland, there are other factors that enter there as easily as possible. A senator described. There's something we haven't really considered in this discussion. This shows that the matter is unconvinced. There are so many things that come in there that we haven't noticed, and it's amazing. I think it must be a search for such a big matter to go through with this overforcing, I mean. These people are freaking out that we're having this conversation, and they're worried that other matters will get held up, etc. Now, I'm just saying, what concerns are people already in such a great deal that they can and will bring about for generations to come, to go in at full speed? I think, Mr. President, is in the best position to postpone the case. I think everybody sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u232	President. In view of the importance of the matter, what it can do to affect the country's standard of living, on the farms, on the state funds, on the business of the country, is incredible -- yes, I agree with it. A senator - how this matter has been held is totally incomprehensible. And it is totally incomprehensible to seek ways that have never been used before in the history of the Generals, at least not in later times, probably never to try to silence the discussion or hide conversation in the middle of the night, even to the morning. I don't feel that there is a clear conscience in the matter. I think it shows that people don't trust in defending it, that they argue, and that most people do not want to be able to listen to the discussion, a discussion that has proved to be extremely important and helpful. Even so, it has repeatedly revealed new facts, fundamental facts, not enough about the fact that the government had not introduced us, but often you have the feeling that the unpleasant facts are actually hidden. It agrees with the strange rhythms of this novelity to allow a meeting meeting and discussion to be held at a time when most people do not have an opportunity to observe the discussion. That certainly is a story.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u233	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was eager for this speech. It's a strange market area. It is remarkable in this discourse and in what has been said in this discourse that it is claimed to be about market protection, consumer protection, and transparency. In view of what happened. The person and the data available on the case are being added to the data in which we have an extremely well-sized group of people behind us who provide information from the media, from the websites of energy companies all over the world, and from investors; people who have placed in our hands a huge amount of data, as you can see from this discussion - are showing that this is an enormous incomprehensible and that we are adding to the information we have from mopping to deepen our understanding. But it is awesome to say, given the descriptions presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A candidate, that market area, is in the traditional sense of that word. This is nothing more than some sort of socialized centralized system that has nothing to do with marketisation. I'm curious to know if there's a problem. A senator sees some connotation between this information from the government, market coverage and consumer protection, and the meaning that ordinary people put into it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u234	Mr. President. Yes, it is a bit tricky when a person allows himself to introduce a case on the grounds that it is about consumer protection, despite the fact that the matter is obviously going to lead to an increase in cost to consumers. In fact, consumer protection is said to be a matter of choosing a energy dealer, but in this, as in so many of the issues involved, the situation in Iceland is simply ignored as much as in most of the countries that have taken up this energy package. In other words, this is a case tailored to the criteria for which the state can receive an exception from them in the introduction of the EEA types. This case is simply not suitable Iceland, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not only would this not apply but it would be disastrous under the circumstances here. And although this may be more appropriate in countries other than here, the example I mentioned from France shows what you might expect here. It was a business owner who, in good faith, was producing energy when the European Union suddenly shows up and says: You have to put out the right to produce this energy. And why shouldn't we be able to do that in Iceland too? We have had such concerns from the beginning, but we have never received clear answers. However, the examples from abroad show that our concerns were not unfounded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u235	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is the most unlikely case, that humans really allow themselves to introduce the matter to the general voter in this way. V.E.G. The minister of state followed the case at the beginning and in the media interviews, and the responsible authorities, the majority opinion, the head of the administrations, the supporters of the case from government position, all agree on and on one agreement that this was really a zero issue, except that it was about consumer protection, that it was about transparency, and that it was about market development. I'm afraid to say that people are being deceived, or at least they're turning information so that people can be misunderstood, if we try to be careful with the speech. ▪ That it can be misunderstood - I think there's a moderate way of saying something that can be heard to become broad. When discussing markets, people understand that the market is a competition that is active within the system that can actually never happen in Iceland in such a small society, a small system. There will always be few contests in this world, despite the fact that private people are on the market. [[The president calls.]] But that's what's going to happen here, i.e. to the private resources owned by the nation. [[The president calls.]] Is that what it is? A senator really is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u236	Mr. President. At least that's what I'm afraid of. And we have the examples, such as what I mentioned from France, where the labor movement saw a reason to protest to power stations. She did not object to the plant or its activities, she protested the involvement of the European Union and because this public energy manufacturer should be forced to work on the market, on public property, to go to the market to win this energy. There must be a fall to cause us to wonder what effect this would have on us. If they go against France, Germany, and Britain in this matter, why shouldn't they do so in Iceland? The European Union has at times been accused of protecting and demanding more of the small countries, but they clearly consider this to be a big issue that the big countries are not spared. Hv. paritaprevir Þór Þorvaldsson is a polite man who is reluctant to use the word deception. However, the apostle Pálsson's former chairman of the Independence Party - today's birthday, i.e. The party, I don't think the Þorsteinn - allowed herself to call this avowed delusion. He calls them praiseworthy because he is in favor of the case and believes that the sect of Independence was justified in using deception to get him to support it, in fact, referred to the warnings called. Admittedly, you wonder if there may be no deception in the way this matter has been presented to the public and introduced to us at the council. But we keep on trying to get to the bottom of this, for that work has already done quite a lot of work. We have discovered one fact after another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u237	Mr. President. Here in front of me, I have a concierge of government, government case, of the induction of the third energy package in Iceland. So many people are probably wondering why the Middle Class is standing here alone. Last night, a second - class senator came here on a talk chair to discuss the subject of the meeting. Exception was made when a member of the council who has been in this building who is a member of the management board and an escort of the case came in a public hearing, under the supervision of the president, and was the reason to discuss the chairmanship of the meeting at the meeting without having a meeting meeting, which must be surprising. People wonder why the Middle Class is standing here, sitting alone with members of the council, discussing the matter. The reason is that in this synonym arrangement the matter was to protect the Constitution of Iceland. Under 2nd, it stands, by permission of the President: The EEA Convention commits the decisions of the joint EU Member States to national rights once taken unless one of them is authorized. 103. g. The EEA Convention to warn that a decision cannot be binding immediately because of the administrative conditions at home. Government conditions mean that the contents of the directive, the content of the common decision, were protected from a constitution. Go on says: The Member State then has six months since its decision to the joint committee to lift the warning. In the United States, a general political captain has been made only when the introduction of a decision calls for a change of law in the country, which in this case leads to a 21st degree. The Constitution of Iceland's Constitution, No. 33 from 1944, level 21. --in the catch, the approval of the Generals is due before the decision is established. Such consent can always be granted by the General, but it has also been customary to allow governments to commit themselves to a political hearing before the national rights are changed by law in terms of national rights - ◯ according to the decision. Go on says: ▪ Prefect 21 par. The Constitution covers national rights agreements, but it obviously also applies to cases where these contracts are made changes. According to the directive, the approval of the Generals is deserved if a contract involves excommunication or treason, or if it looks at a change in government terms. The latter point has been interpreted to allow the approval of Generalis to be settled in the setting of a national right to call for a legal adjustment in this country. This is a Parliamentary arrangement involving the Constitution of Iceland. That's why we're standing here and that's all we can do. The important thing is that we have an obligation to stand here and get the results and get the answers to the information on Iceland's Constitution. But the matters of opinion have not been answered. Mr. President. The subject of opinion has not been answered. This is a problem with Iceland's constitution because the legal warnings that are due to exist do not hold an opinion and will not be held when it is tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u238	Mr. President. That was especially interesting, as it were. A senator moved here and moved out. We're all in it, I hope, that we want to honor the constitution. We don't want to break it, we don't want to go against it. But with the case presented here, there is a great resemblance to Iceland's Constitution. We need to be sure, generals, that we do not. Yes, we have sworn to the Constitution, to keep it completely. It is even more necessary for us to see that there is a problem with all legal procedures here at the General, a good practice, and to see that the case is presented here, and to be handled in a reasonable way. So I took very good note of it. A senator said about this. I would like to ask him to do a little better to see if he feels that, with the very nature of the case presented here, he is having a problem with Iceland's constitution. And if he thinks we may need to take the case just aside, go over it better, and clearly decide that Iceland's Constitution is not being violated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u239	Mr. President. The short answer to that question is: Yes. It seems to me that the government or the nobles of this proposal would be pleased to accept the physical reasoning presented here and that it has not been driven, has not been driven into anything. Officers, commanders. There has been no need for a minister or follower of the proposal to appear in the public assembly and argue on how the legal warnings that are being sought and found can make the matter possible for a judicial hearing. It is clear in my mind that this case cannot keep water like the ultimate intention. Minister is. It has been claimed that the legal warnings are the means by which they hold national rights. However, this has been demonstrated through reasoning from a talk chair, by references to law, regulations, and by the opinion of our best scholars, that it is not. The premonitions don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u240	Mr. President. I'll take my mind off it as a matter of course. A senator presented himself here. I have to say again that this in itself is very serious. It is very serious in itself to present a case of this magnitude, which will affect the nation forever, without being 100% sure that it will succeed in Iceland's constitution. Therefore, I say again, Mr. President, I think it is necessary, and not only necessary, but necessary, that the matter be taken only aside, to consider it even more carefully, to review the matter from the beginning, and to make sure that the knots are in progress before the Council itself. We have far too many examples of this in the past that in cases handled by the General, whether by law or by Congress, there have been errors that cannot be fixed. It has cost the State and its subjects much, both in money and in all the other forms of trouble that have followed the way through. It is our duty to make sure that what's happening here and what we do through the National Assembly will not be against the Iceland Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u241	Mr. President. That's the point. It needs to be conclusive, but this matter is as far away as possible. This is where it's shown. And as I said before, no one is made to refute that argument. Why would that be? Yes, because humans simply do not rely on them. There is no reason to refute what has been said and presented here. I'm next to say that if you let go of your hands on this matter, it's going to have serious political consequences. This is the argument that most likely supported the cause of those who have spoken with the issue, that political consequences are the more than any human fears. The political consequences are so feared because they committed themselves to making such a suggestion uncontaminated and uncivilized. And the main evidence was that the political uncertainty of standing up and standing with the national Constitution and rights and interests would be such that it would not be possible to take the risk of taking the legal course and the right. That's the same argument as it was presented here in the Icesave case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u242	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator's fine speech. I'm interested in what I think. The senator has the following question. But before the question comes, I'm going to have a quick introduction, a lead. There is much news in Britain. Yesterday, the British prime minister, Mrs. May May, who had the task of representing British exits from the European Union, known by the shapes Bgreit. In a talk outside the residence of prime minister on Dowing Street No. 10 she even left. so said she was disturbed that she had not been able to complete this mission. Thus, at any time in Britain, the future prime minister will be replaced. At least weeks, even months, in that sense. But those who have claimed to have that political position have, at least Some of them, according to the opinion that the result will be that there will be a hard landing, sometimes referred to as a hard Bgret, i.e. exits without a contract. Britain is now one of our biggest business countries. This raises questions about our business interests. They will be drawn together to the European Union as soon as Britain leaves, because the importance of our foreign trade is with the British. [[The president calls.]] What is the result? A senator like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u243	Mr. President. It's a big question now. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's good news, all right. If we think of Britain, one of our largest business countries, that they will succeed in leaving the European Union without a contract, it is the monopoly that Britain will still have to rely on two-way agreements with other countries in its foreign trade. So, in the discussion of British exits, it has been said that they have even been considering intervening into EFTA partnerships and experimenting to do so. It would be natural to ensure some of Britain's interests. But it might be possible for them to consider making a two - side agreement with the Icelanders about the business we already have with them. Then you might think that in this regard we might be protected from walking this way and enforcing the induction of the third energy package, but continuing to have full custody of our energy resources, we would have full custody of whether, when, and whom we would sell energy through a sea cable, if and when it was contained in the film, with the interests of the American nation's interests in view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u244	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The large context in which my question is raised is: Here are the foreign ministers of the country, the government and the supporters of this matter, in fact, to promote a fundamental change in foreign policy as it was designed and carried out as we walked into the European Economic Area. At that time, it was suggested that mutual agreements could be made that allow mutual access to the market. That's what the deal is about. But then there is another if access to the market is to become available to resources. It is one of the key elements of the statement by Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson, who is in charge of the concierge of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He describes the European Union as having a lot of interest in access to markets as access to resources. It was against it. The contract contains mutual access to markets. Now, as our interests for the common market of the European Union may be greatly diminished in British exits, this question will be even more challenging. Not that I believe it will ever be an option for a market to become available to resources, but it will be when the remaining market for our products has run out of Britain's markets after their exits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u245	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his second answer. That question is very deep and well - thought - out, as was hoped from the beginning. paritaprevir Dr. Ólafur of Ísleifsson. Here are yet another evidence that we should slow down and consider all these enormous and vital factors that doubt whether we are thinking about the interests of the people. Of course it matters. If the market is shrinking to Britain's market, with Britain's loss of cooperation, the European Community is much less subtly crafted. I would think it would weaken the European Community's agreement with us, if we are talking about the fact that the law of the market works as it is supposed to be. It is clear that there is yet another reason why the discussion should be interrupted and carefully considered whether we are on the right way to try to beat it through, in the fullest sense, by means of the methods used here. I think we'd be glad to do that. Thanks again. A senator for pointing this out. But this is something that is happening just now while we are on this discussion. If we'd finished it a week earlier, we wouldn't have had that information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u246	Mr. President. In this speech, I want to go to the markets that have been discussed here and to the markets of the power system. But first, just look at the arrangement today. Today, we have an electrical system built up on social grounds and belong to all the people of the country, with one exception, though. It is the HS Energy company in Southnes, which is now private and is fully sold to privates in 2009, which I have called one of the biggest political mistakes ever made in Iceland. That company was owned by the Southern community and worked on social grounds. There was a lot of effort to build this company up at the time and more than tears, Mr. President, that this company should be sold out of the hands of the public. The public was never asked in that matter. It's like with this case. The public has not been asked if he is willing to accept the inclusion of this energy package that will affect future generations at the time. That is a fact that humans have seen far too little. It has been said that this has no effect. We don't have to worry about this. There's no cable. But the cable's coming, and it's shorter than a lot of suspects. There will be no turning back. Then some administrative notice should be considered, etc. It is only a matter of postponement and, as mentioned in last night's discussions, those who made this dramatic decision no longer in power, expected, at least Not in the government. I think that's pretty clear. Hence, it is a great responsibility to intend to go through such a matter in such a short time, without adequate discussion and in great opposition to the nation. It's just that way. This is in great opposition to the nation. The labor unions and the labor movement have concluded that it is urgent to go into contact with this market. We're disappearing from the social foundations that have been behind our electrical systems and the resources owned by all the people of the country. That's what this is about. Social factors are being eliminated that are so important. It was an exercise at the time to put electricity on every town. It was a social assignment. Now it's all about the biggest interest in privates. It's not a coincidence that a private company wants to get into this sector, like the Southnesian heat system. It's just because people saw an opportunity to achieve a profit, to make their money as best they can. The social feature was a secondary factor. It has been shown south by sea, e.g. in that the company has not wanted to place heat - management in these so - called cold areas because it does not serve their interests; if the company had been on a social basis still, there would be heating in these areas. [[The president calls.]] There were many more things I was going to say, Mr. President. I had just begun going on this path and wished to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u247	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. There was a comment in his speech that prompted me to participate in a conversation with him under the merits of an answer. He mentioned and discussed the position of some important stakeholders, e.g. The labor movement, for this matter. We know that ASI has turned in a review and opposes the approval of this synonym. There have been powerful labor officials who discussed the matter. For example, I mention Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR. Last night, he took a firm stand against the case. And so was huffs. A senator said that the situation was in opposition to the majority of the people. That is a very sceptical question, Mr. President, in what ways such matters can be handled, without seeking or obtaining a democratic commission. The third energy package wasn't being discussed for the last election. There was no political group that proclaimed that he would stand for a matter of Congress that led to the intervention of foreign, foreign organisations in national energy resources, as they have described, the Stefán Már Stefánsson and the Friðrik Árni of Friðriksson Hirst, at least. An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. [[The president calls.]] They have no authority in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u248	Mr. President. Yes, no agent. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. A senator, and that is the point. A decision is being made that the public should know before this journey was attacked and asked if he was above his head would agree to go that way. I mentioned before the Southnesia Heat, sold in 2009. The people of the South were never asked that question, ever. And more importantly, that was simply a lie. Southnes'community members, who were then mostly independent, said that it wasn't a place to sell the thermals. There would be no need for the public to worry about that. Another came during the day. The company was all sold to foreign parties. When we are told here that this will not have any effect, laws will be provided to ensure that no cable will be laid so that we will not be connected to this common market and arrangements for the induction do not occur because there is no sea cable. Are we supposed to believe this? Should we accept this? Don't you think it's just like Southnesal Heat, when the public was told she wouldn't be sold, but then she was sold? Won't it be the exact same with this case? Don't these laws just be taken away soon after they are set, perhaps within ten years, when there is a strong pressure to be laid? So the law won't just be taken away?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u249	Mr. President. I view this as a fact and as a matter of discussing fundamental questions about the national democratic interests. We live in an arrangement where representatives of the people are chosen to make decisions. These decisions are public, and in a wide sense, but they are different. This issue, in view of the opinion expressed by the legal advisers of the government, is that these are giving the foreign institutions certain things, as they have further described in their opinion. And in order to make such a decision, a representative democracy flaunts its amount. Of course, such decisions must be adopted under the premise that a person has previously obtained a democratic commission to make such a decision. How do people acquire such authority? Men speak for such a case for elections, describe their purpose, describe their course. And the one who has done so and has been elected to the Generals, has been authorized to use himself for such a case. But it doesn't have one General Assembly member, at least. Not in the top of the board, in accordance with their litigation, on the basis of the resolutions of party meetings and their platoons. There is no such democratic commission, and it is very serious to think that it is such a democratic palace upstairs, if it can be said so, in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u250	Mr. President. Yes, no agent. I'll agree with it, just like I said before. Furthermore, it is of natural interest that grass root groups on this proposal, the government parties, are opposed to going on this journey. It has been mentioned here that the Independence Party has a birthday today, and I congratulate him on that. It will be interesting to know whether these are birthday celebrations. But it is very special that political groups and government groups - today there are three categories of government, advance category, independence category, and left green - that opposition is within the core of all their groups against the matter. The former ministers of these groups, of the higher order, of independence, of the left green, have objected and expressed deep concern. Nevertheless, this journey continues. And then in a struggle with the people's will. You ask, Mr. President, "What is the cause of men walking in this manner? " What fears exist when international cooperation and international agreements are reached? We are a sovereign nation, we have two-way communication with the European Union. We have the right to the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u251	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk. The senator and the movie he pulled out of the fate of the once - a Southnesian heat system should become to us, I can tell you, a warning example in this case. What we have presented in this discussion is also true. the risk that if we pick up this European model, we are at risk of losing our energy supply. In 2009, like a dog. A senator correctly points out, was a difficult time in the country, and at that time I have suspected that public companies, such as pension funds, were encouraged to participate in the purchases of the then - known Southnesal Heat. But they did not, which caused the company to find its way into the foreigners, who in the ten years since then, if I remember correctly, multiply what they put into this company. And at this time, i.e. Some months after this company was sold into the hands of foreigners, the company's Icelandic pension funds, some months later, were purchased by the foreigners who had already bought, and it already made them a lot of money from their investments. I think that's exactly what this story is. A senator should be our guide now. But I've got to get a little closer on it next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u252	Mr. President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. A senator in this regard. Of course, this story, as we have described it, is a warning to us. You're absolutely right. Senator. But let us not forget: What is the beginning of all this? Yes, it is the very market of energy because of the proposals and initiatives of the European Union. It's a pack of energy, and then a pack of energy. As a result, the companies are ordered to divide energy production, sales, and distribution. It turns out that the Southnesian heat system is divided into HS Power and then HS host. It was the beginning of all this. Then you ask yourself, " When this all comes into force, a pack of energy, three and all that goes with it, when the cable comes, all that goes with it, there's a demand to replace these large companies of ours we have, Land activation, Rark. I think, Mr. President, it's time for us Icelanders to learn from history, learn from experience. Let's just put this case off. Let's go over it carefully. Let us watch factors that will affect the nation's economic issues for the future and the future generations, the national electricity prices, that resource. There are so many things in this that we must consider much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u253	Mr. President. For the Southnesy heat system it is not that this company has been a burden on the Southnes, as we both know, me and the other. A senator, who was this company, and is still, most likely, the most technologically advanced power company available to us Icelanders. So half the property of this company has now been restored to Icelandic property. A company owned 14 pension funds has now even half of this company and half is owned by foreign parties. In all the transactions that took place there, a third part of the Blue lagoon, which was now taken out of parentheses at the time of the exchange of property. A thing of indestructible importance, and I think, Mr. President, that I will be in the next speech or talk to go a little deeper into this and others who are like it, just to exorbitant, like the other. A senator did so well in his speech earlier, what risk is there for us to take the slightest risk that we are losing control of our energy supply. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator whether he feels that we need to be on guard as never before to prevent such an event from happenings as this one repeats.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u254	Mr. President. Yeah, we'd love to learn from all of this. I remember when the company was sold in 2009, if I handled these numbers correctly, it was sold for about 12 billion. Today, ten years later, the company is rated at 72 billion. That's a pretty good piece of work, Mr. President. In addition, the HS hosts were sold by independents in Smokejanestown. They couldn't sell the entire company because the law says they can't sell it. This type of enterprise has to be about 51% of the local community's share. Then the company returned 400 million. K. Each year to profit on the local community. This company was sold at 2 billion, so it would only take five years to get paid. You ask yourself, " What's the ideologies behind there? ' How can politicians, selling such a business as a community owner, make a lot of money, and have this social role, which is so important? Bringing it to private agents who completely disappear from this social function, that's a complete detail. Now it's just to make the most of the money, to make the most of it. That's when the social part doesn't matter. You ask yourself, Mr President, what are politicians thinking like this? The tracks might scare us and we could get into the same thing after the induction of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u255	Mr. President. After 11 minutes, it will be 18 hours since this meeting was set. I assume that soon we will begin reaching some new level of meeting at the council. Although it is tempting and enjoyable to make a record, I am not sure that this record may be of value to us or to our benefit. That's why I'm asking the highest. President how long he intends to continue a meeting. The discussion may be successful, and it is illuminating, interesting, and enjoyable. And for us in the discussion, it's natural, very satisfying. However, the work of the Generals is not supposed to be about the entertainment value of individual senators, so I have to ask the highest level of questions. How long he intends to continue this meeting and whether we can expect to continue for a long time in the morning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u256	President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. It would be interesting to know how long a meeting will last. I'm new to you here, but I had canceled my birthday at the Independence Party, which I was invited to here in Reykjavík today. I was going to spend that day on the north with my children, as I believe that many of the Generals planned to do. But thanks to the President of Generalis, who decided to have a day's work today, we will face the task, of course. At least some. The President will set up a meeting period at the General Assembly. He decides when the meeting will start and when it will end. It is that way, to ask the highest question. A president whether he intends to make a meeting today and evening and until Sunday, just so some who might have thought about driving back home and meeting their families can make arrangements and ponder over them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u257	Mr. President. I believe that it is just a fair and natural wish that is presented here to inform the extent to which plans are made. President on the continuation of this meeting. Congress officials are not to doubt how long the president has thought this meeting would last. This is a reasonable and reasonable wish, and I allow myself to expect a respectable president to state clearly and clearly what his plans are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u258	Mr. President. I agree with the wishes of the senators who have expressed themselves here to inform us that the president will inform us how long he intends to continue this meeting. I remind you that in less than two hours, the birthday celebration of the Independence Party will begin to celebrate the 90th birthday of the party. Restrained by lndependencemen, hombre. The members of the Independence Party, that they will be meeting here as long as they celebrate their birthday? Like the President informed us last night. Even though they were celebrating their three - year - old birthday, those reverends were fully allowed to see a meeting. They've also got a permit for this. The members of the Independence Party that they cannot then attend the discussion and listen to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u259	Mr. President. I agree with what. Councilmen. I'm sorry I didn't understand why you couldn't tell me what to do for a long time. It's like there's some kind of secret thinking behind it. I don't understand this kind of work. This is so orderly that it is by no means unique, and it has been said over the years that the International Council is being made up of family - oriented jobs. Tells you the highest. Mr President, is there a family-friendly policy to meet here for 18 hours? I've been getting calls this morning from my family about whether I'm going to come out on my outing with her today. I have my family to attend to, it's this weekend, and there's nothing unusual about it. It's supposed to be a family-friendly workplace, but it's not to be seen. I urge you, Mr. President, just to answer frankly how long this meeting will last. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u260	President. It may be appropriate for us members of the Central Party to be here and to discuss Iceland's generalities while lndependencemen lodge in champagne in a town for promoting cutting the sovereignty, surrendering power to the European Union. It may be something they prefer to do today on their 90th birthday rather than stand here and defend it. I'd also like to, Mr. President, to request, if possible, that the excellent staff of the Generals be asked to speed up the debate of the minister of state, answer and all talks delivered by the Minister. I threw in my last talks many questions that I hoped to get answers to, so it would be very important for the discussion, at least for me, a respectable president, to see if there was any answer to a minister. I may not necessarily think so, but it would be intriguing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u261	Mr. President. First, I would like to congratulate the independents of my 90th birthday, but I have been invited to the joy of that occasion today. I would like to ask the president kindly to inform us about the length of his meeting. I agree with the senators who have lived up to this point before me, that it is automatic and natural courtesy on the part of a president to treat himself and other members of the council with minimal respect to informing them of the duration of a meeting so that men can organize jobs and private life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u262	Mr. President. One of the passwords of the 21st century, the third millennium, is transparency, enlightenment, and the idea that there is no less secretism or demonism. In view of this, I allow myself to reiterate my wish and my other bad. The members of the council here have spoken that it will clearly and clearly be reported as to what President's plan is regarding the duration of this meeting. Like a few snoozes. Councilmen have mentioned the identity of independence that today is 90 years away from the formation of the party. It took place here at the General Assembly with two categories of unions. Individuals, like whisk. A senator, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, has high positions of responsibility within the category and must expect them to be very busy with birthday celebrations, but they may need to be participants in this discussion, even to answer questions. [[The president calls.]] So I wish that this birthday celebration of independence be taken into account in a decision for a meeting time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u263	Mr. President. I reiterate that the wish is simply to Mr. President to inform the duration of the meeting so that men can take steps regarding their actions, and not only with members of the Central Party, but also with very interested members of the other parties and members of the administration who have been here with us in the House. I do not compromise with long encounters, especially with the future of national energy resources, their provision and use.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u264	Mr. President. During these good discussions about the President's meeting board, the meeting reached an 18 - hour period, which in itself may not be a special racer. I don't know if the President of the Parliament and the President of the United States are in any race for who can conduct a longer meeting. This is not particularly to be imitated. I would like to congratulate the independents on the day, and I would like to point out that in a short time, the birthday celebration of the party will begin, with many members of the council invited to participate. They will not be able to participate in that festival if the meeting is held and the age - old class is shown in itself a small amount by holding a meeting during his festival. I'd also like to point out that we came here for a few hours last night. Secretary of state. I believe his role here at the meeting has not been completed so that it might be quite possible that we would wish his presence again, along with the secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] Then we cannot expect them to come to the meeting while celebrating their 90th birthday party. So I must ask the highest. President how long he intends to continue a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u265	There are no others who have requested to address the President's conference board, which may require that a discussion be held for a long time. Now that we have a bright and honored day, we can continue our discussion in the light. There was some demand for it. Four o'clock. Senators are on the rosary. If it's what it's gonna be. The members of the Governing Body are able to finish the discussion quickly so that it will not harm the birthday celebrations of the independents. Otherwise, we will continue our discussion for a while. However, the president would like to state that it will not be done that long. The senators who are invited for birthday celebrations fail to attend.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u266	Mr. President. Many questions still remain unsettled in this matter, and this does not change them at all. The minister of state has honored the meeting, so to speak, with his presence yesterday. It surprised me, I must allow myself to say, Mr. President, how badly prepared it seemed to me to the highest degree. Secretary of state for the course. There have been discussions for some time, and very persistent questions have been raised by those who have been observed, and I assume that on snow at the highest level. A minister is an active people who observe these discussions and who, although he has been abroad in public affairs, could have informed the minister. But the minister, in fact, answered most of the things he was left here. Among the fundamental questions being raised are the following: Because of what is presented in the opinion of the legal advisers of the minister of the state and the government, there is a danger that this package of energy may come across the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland - and it is described by the words ◯ severe doubt that this will last a constitution - it has therefore been tented in order for the induction to occur in the strength of what has been called legal court. There have been so many claims about where the legal company is searching that it may no longer be possible to count the points mentioned in this regard. V.E.G. A minister gave a whole new point yesterday and seemed to understand the Minister in a way that the legal company was searching for members of a committee, most likely a professional committee. But it could be the State Department. I'm not quite ready to make a statement about it and the best thing to do is to have all the lips in that regard. But, of course, there is a very persistent question, even for the lay of law, about how a committee's opinion at the World Council can include legal notice and what a judge would be able to do in the sense of national rights. That's a very persistent question. Where is the legal opinion on this point? Another truth is true, and no answers came from the highest. Minister: How will he respond to the decision in the legal form of the Council of the Government that foreign institutions are given here to take a position in the nation's energy resources? These acts are described as making it seem best for me to draw them together with three words expressed in a related legal opinion. It's that foreign institutions have at least An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. This is so big a case that it can't be handled differently than there's a greater and better explanation than it has been shown how to respond to this legal opinion. In this regard, I state that I believe that this legal advance is primarily intended to respond to the administrative problem so that I call again on being informed how to react to this opinion about power resources. I can't finish this speech any other than saying that I thought a minister had been allowed to approach this matter and this discussion of a little more serious and responsibility than I thought he could have discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u267	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Senator points out that in the opinion of Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni, this significant doubt is discussed and that it will pass a constitution. You wonder, " Can I be held responsible for taking the chances with the constitution that this significant doubt falls on the right side? ' Then we must ask another question: How on what basis can humans justify delaying the decision of which side will arrive? What benefits come from postponing? It comes up exactly the same question as it is when - I'm going to say when - the time comes for it to be answered. Then the followers of the case have not worked hard to answer whether the so - called fourth energy package has any effect on the answer to this question, the legal issue. You can expect that when it comes to answering the question of either playing a game or if the warning actually works, you will find another similar question with this fourth energy package waiting. Has a what? A senator's concern? Second, what is the point? A senator who is in charge enough of the employment committee's committee's committee committees? Is there any value in the foreword, as required by law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u268	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I believe the second question is quickly answered. There can be no slightest thought that text in a committee can have any significance in the national context. I just describe the law that would express a clear view. But with regard to the other question, why? A senator by referring to the fourth energy package, the winter package that is now being called, and which, according to the newspaper reports this week, is now passed on by the European Union - I believe that when it is established that there are serious legal issues relating to the Constitution, such as the Fedrics of the Árni and Stefán Már Council, it must be carried out by itself, Mr. President, that there must be a possible conflict in the nature of the fourth energy package. This is one of the big questions we face. They really are many. It seems that this case is a legal impossibility as it stands. It is almost amusing with every occasion to bring forward something that might be called a legal premise. But concerning one thing, the followers of the case seem to agree that a legal opinion on the value of the warning to save this matter is not to be given under the premise that this is a belt and a shoulder bond. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u269	President. Hv. A candidate mentioned in his talk the highest. Secretary of State, whom I've already requested to try to speed up printing if there's any possibility. However, I understand that the Generals need to care for other matters. I'd like to ask the senator a question that I think is quite important. If this thing goes through in the summer, or whatever it may be, we are implementing certain directives that are part of this third energy package. We're taking a step toward further induction of the fourth energy package. So it is reasonable to ask, for those who are less concerned about this than we do: Can we cancel? Do the senator know how we can change our mind as we dive into the fourth energy package and say, "Hey, we're not going to introduce 713 and 714?" We made a mistake?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u270	Mr. President. I'm afraid it would be very difficult to disappear from individual activities brought into the national rights. There might be only one way in this regard, to resign from these associations. But there is something that we have no interest in doing. We think, I think all of us who have chosen to appoint the Party of the Central Party, that cooperation in the European Economic Area has been a major success and that we are of that benefit. I eagerly look forward to seeing the report on the pros and cons of the EEA, which I used for, in fact, the support of, and the support of the entire Central Party to do, and more members of Congress. But such questions are very persistent, and it is somewhat strange that we cannot answer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u271	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd love to go with it. A senator over that yesterday was here with us for a short while - and when I say for a moment, I aim for the duration of the meeting. I'm not complaining about the highest. Minister of State has been with us for three hours when the meeting has been held for over 18. Then I asked the highest. Minister if he had observed a legal opinion, or rather a review, sent in by an EyjólfurÁrmannsson attorney in Norway. V.E.G. A minister did not know that he had read the report, and in fact, he denied that I, unfortunately, felt that the Eyolf of a Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, a highly respected lawyer. It is in itself serious and painful if a person chooses to accept, such as the surface, if they believe that the result may not be appropriate for them. In many areas, the Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson in the same area are legally seen by the two scholars most quoted. He does not deny that he believes that this case, as it is submitted here, will not be passed on to Iceland's Constitution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can agree with that. And if so, whether it's not a fairly serious matter, if we're here discussing a matter that's at risk of not meeting the republic's constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u272	Mr. President. I read Ármannsson the Year's son's opinion in a similar way. A senator and I seem to think that he is in a similar manner, considering Friðrik of the Árni to Stefán Már. Also interesting to me was that the author has lived and worked in Norway for the past few years, perhaps knowing the facts better than many others. But there are many factors in this matter. I can figure it out for myself. The minister of state is not able to read all the envelopes in this case. But what surprised me in his case yesterday was the distance I seemed to be in from the opinion of Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni. I insisted on asking a minister to this conclusion of the two, because there was no reason, there was no answer from the highest level. Minister, that foreign institutions were granted power resources of the nation in the way they have described by the expression'supposed at least The indirect influence of the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. I thought it was the highest. Ministers talk as if he didn't know it very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u273	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm still fishing in the same lake. If there is no suspicion that the matter is not a constitution, we have natural senators - that is not even to say, "I can't handle the situation, but it can't be part of what we're supposed to do here, i.e. to accept a matter that we have either suspected or knows is not meeting the republic's constitution, which we have used, proben, made an oath. I want to pray. The senator is doing a little better over the matter, to the point that we have taken an oath to the constitution and are going to work according to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u274	Yes, it was a stranger, I thought, in the case of the highest. Minister already came to this opinion of the two civilizations. But one of the priorities they make is the universal space when it comes to determining whether decisions or regulations fit in with the Constitution. I referred to their opinion on this subject, since they really sharpen for the generals to step gently toward the earth on these matters, as it may be evident to all that their duty, their tradition, is, like, theirs. A senator could handle, swear to the Constitution. However, that point is set forth in a very clear way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u275	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An interesting discourse presented by the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. I was going to ask him about his contact with the Icelandic constitution. He discussed the expeditation of power to the international institutions, which may be ESA or ACER, and that these institutions, either or both, will thus influence the nation's planning and use of the energy resources, if I have taken exactly what is said. Senator. This would be in the opinion of the government's own legal adviser, who said that despite the formal cause at ESAs, i.e. The international power, which may be relevant in Iceland after the introduction, is formally at ESAs, is aware that ACER will have a lot to say about the issues of decisions that ESA takes on the basis of the Regulation, resulting in the production of ACER in decisions and setting them up for ESAs. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that it is in fact ACER who receives this power that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144 which we seek to honor? And since we talk about contact with the Constitution, this is quite different in many other countries, such as. In Norway. In the entitlement of power, possibly, the tributary of other councils is increased in terms of approval of such an authority. There is no such thing in this country. Then I'll ask why. Senator: When the European Commission's energy directive was introduced into Norway, was there a court order for the Norwegian Council asking for more than that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u276	Mr. President. As the two authors put it, there is a potential conflict with the Constitution, especially in the 7th, 8 and 9th paragraphs. Regulation No. 713/2009 They work out in a way that, in the power of these articles, these regulations, which are found in Iceland, will be approved by this body of Congress, these foreign institutions will receive a source that is described in the way I could describe several times before, at least several times before. An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. That's the core of the problem, i.e. The legal foreman who's supposed to solve it. It has not yet been found, and there is no opinion about the possible national value of such a warning. Actually, this case is in complete resolution. It's a legal impossibility. The case is in chaos. There are a number of factors in this matter that are unsearched. It is unclear how the third and fourth energy package will play together. The fourth one's ready. Norway is deeply concerned that the authority rights of this European energy agency, ACER, will gradually increase with the resulting problems. The two authors certainly do not belittle the weak position of the European Commission, an institution to which we Icelanders are involved, with this European energy agency, ACER, which we have no involvement in except in the audience. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there is a real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u277	Mr. President. How interesting it is to hear a point of view! paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, the salesman of power to the international institution we are dealing with. Legal advisers of the government have noted that by means of the implementation of energy directives, international organisations at least An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. It was in Norway at its time, last year. This is different when implementing a European Union rule that may conflict with the Norwegian constitution. An increase in the Parliamentary period is held in the Norwegian Council. That's why I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether or not at the introduction there was requested for more part of the council. [[The president calls.]] That would without doubt give at least hints of how close the Icelandic constitution is to the manufacture of the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u278	Mr. President. That's at least in my mind no doubt that the authors of the most widely quoted category, the legal advisers of the government, count, and clearly explain in their opinion, that if you walk very closely near the constitution, the energy package will be introduced in this way. Of course, when I allowed myself to use the terms legal in advance, I was referring to the fact that by agreeing to the synonym, we establish a national commitment to implement the types that follow this package, including the controversial Regulation 713. It is particularly part of the law that results in the alienization of the situation. That they are being handed over to foreign institutions beyond what can be concluded as per the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u279	President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to congratulate the independence party on the day. 90 years is a very long time. I'd also like to draw the attention of senators in the fine article "Saddler On." Andersen in the Morning Press, which I think everyone should read, not just the independents, but they should read it, too, actually. We'll talk about a pack of three energy at the same time as over a four-pack of energy. For he is become a light to the people, if they bear witness after him. The government, or Ministry, has discussed that package, but nothing has been done to introduce the contents to us members of the council. However, in a town, some so - called stakeholders have been studying it. There must be some questions that arise in our mind. Parliaments know that in a pack of three energy, there is a special exercise of power. However, there is some legal arrangement that is very vague. Then we must ask: Is the continuation of this power supply in a pack of four energy? You wonder, Mr. President, if it really is so that the media cannot see the reason to dive into the content of this fourth energy package to compare packages three to four, to find out what's going on. Is the media so weak in Iceland that they're only reporting on the length of a meeting, of a lawsuit, and who's talking the longest instead of diving into things? Yes, the answer is yes. The media are merely doglike when it comes to digging into things. I'm asking, Mr. President, about package four of energy. I don't have any hopes -- Actually, I'm gonna have this in a pet store, have a warning on this and a parente - to the highest degree. The minister of state has answered some questions in his talk about the following of a pack of energy from a pack of four energy. But I ask, What is the connection between these packages? Is There a Remain of Power? Is this ACER institution gaining greater power? Do you have any consequences for energy prices in the EEA? Will energy prices rise in Iceland? What responsibilities are involved in following this information package to the United States? How does it affect the Icelandic energy company? How does he affect an Icelandic state power company? How does he affect competition for energy prices? To be taken into account Iceland's special status in that energy package, e.g. In terms of the energy efficiency of buildings, about the geothermals, about the fallwaters? Do you need another control plan for a four-pack of energy? Or is he on the line when we finish, if we finish, a pack of three in the summer or in the fall? These are questions that would be reasonable to ask now and get answers, Mr. President. Because we know that we can see, i.e. We can study and get the opinion of experts of what is to come. This, however, does not seem to make any difference to the followers. It's as if they think that the energy package alone was just such an independent phenomenon. A pack of two energy was another independent phenomenon. A pack of three independent phenomena that have no reference to either the two or the future energy package, which, of course, would be a respectable president, said in a very pen, completely fucked up. This is all a single combination aimed at changing all the energy markets of the European Union and the EEA, bringing power from local conventions to the media. That has even been true. Observed, if I have noticed correctly, and have read a story by a journalist named Dave Keating, that the European Union intends or plans, estimated, to transfer energy issues from local conventions, from the capital of the countries, to Brussels. We're not going back here in Iceland. We will not escape this course if we are involved in bringing it, which is what humans are doing with a pack of energy three, man is taking a step in the direction that was being described here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u280	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you why. The speaker here gave a fine talk further into what he had discussed and even in advance. We've been told about the members of the council sitting here, e.g. When a pack of two energy was confirmed and approved at the council - a pack of energy two may be the key to the dilemma we have been able to achieve by the exchange of energy companies into the manufacturing and distribution sectors. One down. One former senator has put it this way: when a package of energy was arranged at the council, it slipped through, all members were asleep, not realizing the seriousness of accepting that package. That is why I want to say what. A senator asking him about the same thing: I don't think anybody can say that a Senate was asleep this time, right now, at a supply of a pack of three, at least not a part of the U.S.A. I'd like to ask why. A senator with regard to a pack of three energy, which we'll expect to approve, a conquistador or part of it, whether it is advisable to prepare even better for a vote, i.e. to turn the matter aside, to postpone it, even to the fall. Because there are things going on that I may be better able to cross in my second answer. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he counts, in the light of history - and I want him to go over it a bit - that we should be quick to accept this part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u281	President. The answer to this question is yes. Of course, we should take it slow, and we should learn from history and experience. When a pack of two energy was discussed at the council, none of us were present at the council Hall. But I remember as an active participant at the time, that we strongly objected that this route had gone. That the then minister should handle this in a way that was done so quickly through the council. It was protested within the party. I don't understand, Mr. President, that men don't want to learn from history. Now that we're sitting at the council, we've got a lead. Our situation is better than that of those who attended a council when a two - pack of energy was introduced, for now we can know, perform the autopsy, and examine what the future holds. There's no need for a crystal ball, there's no need to predict a game. All we need is coverage, research and energy package four assessments. In terms of a pack of two energy, it has only been introduced here and has been relieved of the truth in all of it. However, this package refers to the plans for energy companies, a system plan, to the highest. The minister then made it necessary, especially for a so-called geological report, to introduce or set up the rules of a system plan, however, and it clearly stated to the Ministry that there was nothing about a pack of three energy, but simply following a pack of energy two and what was going on. But now we can see what's coming. Why, then, do we keep moving? What's behind this? No one has been able to tell us what we are in a hurry to do and will not look at what we can see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u282	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer, for an answer to an answer, because he entered the right point, of course, that we should learn from experience. There's not enough to go, like a cot. One senator said that we can now demand more answers about the future before we agree with something more. At the end of the purchase I will contend, and will ask. A senator on his opinion that we can learn from the experience we have, because energy package one and two have been in force for probably 15 and 10 years each, if I remember correctly. We are naturally to learn from the experience that this duration has brought to us. This discussion has proved true many times, but no one has ever been able to say if it is possible to do so. I specifically mention that Dr. Ólafur Ísleifsson, ha. A senator, has called for a economic evaluation of the consequences of accepting a pack of three energy. That is a very valid point because, of course, we need to know how much it costs to take this package. But it seems so bad, as we all know, that the vertebral device involved in bringing in this package of energy is a contingency proposal, and the Senate-sense proposals are not costly. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is necessary to request economic evaluation and to consider the potential cost of households, enterprises etc. Before we accept the energy package, if it is required to accept it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u283	President. It seems that there is good reason for such an evaluation. Not just economic assessments or cost estimates. There is also a need to go over what this package means for the constitution. What's in a pack of four energys about the power market for a national institution? With the permission of the President, I'm going to read from the views of the Industrial Association on a pack of three energy. It says, by permission of the president: On the basis of reasons, SI suggests that the fourth energy pack, i.e., is already being discussed at the EU level. A so-called cycle pack And so says, and I ask Mr. President to listen carefully now: ... where there's an even greater rule than the first energy trays... The industrial organizations there tell us that a pack of four energy contains even more complex or more routines than a three - pack energy package. And then the followers of this case here - they don't speak at all because they don't participate in the discussion, refuse to come up here and tell us if they've got a presentation on a pack of energy, if we have to worry about him. Whether this more extensive structure of the industry's organization points to, is minor, has no impact on constitution, does not include power promotion, does not include expense, does not include some kind of pressure on the economy, does not include pressures on the state energy companies, private companies, changes the rights of individuals or the legal rights to sue or anything like that. There's nothing left to it. But we do know from the Society of Industrialism that this is far more extensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u284	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. He entered a point that in itself has not been discussed in the Senate Hall of the past few days, but it is necessary to record. It is as much as the media seem to place little emphasis on digging into the points of controversy in this matter. We watch, for example. For example, a media station such as The Kingdom Television, which has billions of dollars in advance over other market media, it seems that there is no basis for more material discussion than when it was discussed with President's conference board and whether this name is spoken of in languages or something else, a superficial point. There is nothing taken up in these matters, however, that they should have the power and ability to do, whether it is on the alert, what changed in the administration categories, what the interests of the public in this case, how they are involved in putting here some nuclear reason for the introduction to the public's interests, which then do not keep, or what the movers have done. All of them are questions that are only fair and normal to be asked by the media. I have not seen the state medium, the fine medium, who has financial abilities and stroke powers in the light of a large supply through the nose tax and, on the other hand, a superior position in a commercial market, makes no effort to explore any of the issues presented here. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator: Does he consider this to be a credit to the medium? [[The president calls.]] Does he not feel that it is reasonable and reasonable requirement, both for politicians and for the general citizen, that such a medium like the governor should pursue such work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u285	President. Of course, private media are not jealous because they have to compete with the members of the Kingdom Hall. Superficial reporting on this energy package is characteristic of it. When it comes to discussing this important matter, the radio behaves as a unnecessary gossiping club. It is hard to believe that only headlines talk about filing, meeting hours, and interviews are made by members of Congress who can't figure it out. There is no attempt to look into the matter. Maybe this thing doesn't get enough money. Maybe all we have to do is put 2 billion more, something like that, on the state radio so that they can do that. I hope I never will, I'll just say. It is a concern when we compare ourselves with or look to the media in many foreign countries where there is room to do so, I'm just going to say, "No! " There's far too little of it done here, unfortunately, far too little. But that does not make the matter difficult. It's a big case. It's about the future. What we're going to do and talk about today, and of course it applies to everything we do here at the council, is more or less about the future. If it's such an 80th anniversary of the Independence Party that when he can do so, he doesn't want to look at the future in a pack of four energy out of the country's sovereignty, I'm concerned about the age-old class that's been very successful on behalf of Iceland for 90 years. But there it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u286	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, in his speech, suggested that even though he had not made a presentation for us at the council, he is now equipped with a four - pack of energy. The senator, in view of the description he has of the contents of the package and the detailed rules that it appears to be recommended, that in some way is counterreformable to us now - especially in view of the fact that there is no information about having an approved pack of three, there will be no harm in postponing his approval until the autumn Council - to complete a pack of energy without considering what the provisions of the four energy package are, if the council appears to be approaching a matter of opportunity, to receive comments? The rationale for the induction of the three energy packages is including We've done well with the induction of a two-pack of energy, which is a naturally incredible argument. If so, it is obvious that energy package four does not have much protection. Does the senator believe that, in view of all of this, the induction of a three-pack of energy will be completed before a proper analysis and presentation of the four energy packages has taken place?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u287	President. In other circumstances, it would be reasonable to complete such a matter as a pack of three energy if we did not know what was expected of us in the future. But now we've got so much chance to see it, probe it, study it, get the opinion of experts, executives, economists. But none of these would choose the people of this case. What does that mean, e.g. The four energy pack, straight away from a pack of three energy? There are issues that are closely connected and follow each other. Is the energy market being further developed? Is the left movement going to offer a green supply just to clemense the energy package in the future, although they are moving more and more of it to a national institution and to the market area? Have they not been concerned that in the future Iceland may not be able to influence whether there will be electricity supplied to gardening or home? That's all the questions you need to ask yourself. It's a little special that people don't want to take the chance they have. One is contained in a pack of four about the efficiency of buildings. It is now in the opinion of the Industrial Association. What's being changed? How does that affect Iceland? [[The president calls.]] For example, will we consider how we build and swallow a house? Or is it of no importance? [[The president calls.]] Is the comparison a right there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u288	The president is now planning to complete this meeting because it is not obvious that the discussion on the part of the program can be emptied, despite the many talks and significant exchanges held by members of the Central Party alone, beyond what the foreign minister was participating in the discussion for a while this afternoon. This meeting has now been held for a short period of 19 hours. The entire discussion has lasted for nearly 100 hours, of which members of the Central Party have spoken well over 80 hours. The president is sorry that he cannot complete this discussion, but he has been tempted to give it up. The members of the Parliament have sufficient time to discuss the matter thoroughly so that a proverbial file can be emptied and the discussion finished. The next few days wait to reach a conclusion, but despite the fact that our steel meets here, it will not be avoided to finish the discussion with the democratic rules we've developed and established. Many of the council's activities await springtime, and hopefully it will be a loan to be able to complete the work successfully in the days ahead. The chairman of this meeting was held at 53 talks and a total reply was 311. Finally, the president wants to thank the members of the council for their long endurance. It applies to staff connected to the conference hall and to the office, welcome and security, and especially to those who work in the cafeteria and feed us so that the energy is as powerful as the example can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u289	The president considers an agreement that may last longer, but the synopsis dictates, or it is proposed by the president to do so. If not, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u290	A respectable president. The third energy package has been given a lot lately. The members of the Central Party, and it is obvious that this is so - called atrocity, which is not necessarily all bad, though I find it worse with them, I must say, especially because of the repeated distortions, the discussion is repeated despite repeated corrections. [[The point is, this is not the discussion.]] It is my opinion that it will take months to correct the nonsense presented in this discussion, both here and anywhere else. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's why I want to suggest... [[The president calls.]] [[President wants to point them out. The matter to be considered here is to be arranged by a member of the body.]] Yeah, I'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u291	There is the danger of giving a big talk about the President's conference board if there is a material approach to the matter that is waiting to be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u292	A respectable president. I'll take that into consideration. Therefore, I was going to suggest that the case would be delayed until the fall, so that after we have studied the case, we, who are in favor of the case, can take the initiative to clean up the nonsense that has been handed down the discussion here and in the community so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u293	Before giving the word to the first speaker, he would like to make a statement about last night's discussion. Secretary of state has arrived in the country and is scheduled to be convened, hopefully at any moment, so. Senators can keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u294	Mr. President. I must first agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son said, his proposal to postpone the case until the fall. I think that there is a reasonable conclusion to consider the matter better and to accept the different viewpoints that have come along and also to face the dissatisfaction that exists in the community with the need to pass this issue through. I remind you that the labor movement has declared that it does not support the introduction of this energy package, and seven out of ten comments received by the State Department on the issue are negative. There are many factors that recommend postponing the case until the fall so that it can be reviewed further and that we try to make peace in our community. It's very important to settle the issue. But I'd like to protest as long as possible. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said earlier that there was a lot of false talk in the middle-class lawsuit and nonsense, as he put it. I want to point 'em. One of the facts on this matter that is of importance to the public is that electricity prices to homes and companies in the country have increased. It increased by induction of energy package one and two. With a new electricity law of 2003, a number of countries that fanned their home by electricity had to take tens of percent of the increase in electricity prices, despite the government's telling them that the power package was not to raise any increase in electricity prices. It is the matter of the administration, and the classes that support it in this matter, the Pirans, the woodlands, and the Conspiracy, which have held up false records. Of course it's a serious matter, Mr. President, when it is claimed that electrical prices will not go up to homes and then raise it. There the government bears responsibility. A former industrial minister said, e.g. for the induction of energy packages one and two that power prices would not be raised in households. Another came during the day. It's a kind of statement that's making me nervous, that's what it's all about. There is considerable uncertainty about the induction of this energy package when it comes to e.g. The homes of the country. An increase in electrical prices to the households will also be implemented when a pack of three energy is implemented as directed by the government. That is why there are sound reasons, and we Middle Class have already given us sound reasons. With a third energy pack, e.g. has to provide private power plants, windmills, and other links to the transport systems owned by the nation. This results in costs and calls for increased investment in transport capacity. The cost of this is not to be dropped on the plant. It must be distributed to all users of the network. This alone will lead to an increase in the transport costs for the homes and businesses in the country. The big business may get out first because it has long-term contracts. The estimated increase in domestic electricity costs will occur, whether the cable comes or not. It's important to keep it to yourself, Mr. President. But if a cable is to be invested even further in the weight of the network, all at the expense of national energy users. With the third energy package, we lose control of Landsnet prices. It works very hard against the interests of the public of the country as it is on the Landsnet and, in fact, the whole transport and distribution network of electricity in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u295	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms have been among the most successful and successful among them, affecting the impact on energy prices of our share in the European energy work. He has discussed how he saw with his own eyes and felt on his own skin, along with his rural south by sea, how the electric prices increased as a result of the induction of the previous packages. We have faced challenges. Councilmen from the management team have written magazine articles stating that the induction of the third energy package will lower energy prices. It is contrary to the experience as a matter of course. A senator has referred to, and this also violates the natural conclusions that can be drawn from the European community's goals on harmony and consistentness. We're here with a relatively lower energy price than what happens and walks in Europe. I have a recent Norwegian report on this very, energy prices. It carefully discusses that the result of continued co-ordination of energy in Europe will be a cohesive energy price, which will be higher than any human should have been used so far in Norway. This is one of the main findings of this report made by Norwegian meditation. I'd love to go inside. A senator according to his opinion of this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u296	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There is one thing that is perfectly clear and has been since the beginning of this matter. In this case, I'm referring to the introduction of this energy package, these EU initiatives, that we will be participating in the common market of electricity in the European Economic Area. There is one thing that can be confidently asserted, i.e. that these changes have made electricity prices to consumers, to the public, to the homes, to the companies in the country, have increased. This can be demonstrated by a variety of data. Of course, this is what matters to the homes and businesses of the country. Regarding the claim that it is important that we be participants in this market area for the EEA Convention, you ask yourself: Have you not realized what the consequences are now when a pack of three energy is created? I am convinced that the results will be greater and larger than those in a single energy pack and two because it is the European Union's goal to control the market area of electricity. The electrical price comes to balance. Then, of course, it will rise, since it is the lowest of us Icelanders. This is the very essence of this matter. This is the essence of this discussion, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u297	Mr. President. I wanted to clarify the source I consulted in my previous answer. This is a research report, which I call, De Factoro and is a knowledge center linked to the labor movement. This report is brand new. It is dated in April 2019. Hv. A senator mentioned the interest of homes and employment companies. It is minimal that there is economic analysis, an assessment of the consequences of the national energy package induction, effects on homes and employment prices, and effects on energy prices, so that it does not have to be based on speculations or any statements or claims made by individual members of the management team put in localists that they receive in newspapers. Let us remember that homes and businesses are very exposed to any high prices. This is especially true of the homes that so many people face each month or every three months of their payments and pay off insurance loans. Energy prices have a fixed and heavy value inside the index. It is a responsibility to take action, such as the induction of this energy package, which could have serious consequences for the economic situation of citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u298	Mr. President. Yeah, I'll agree with that. Senator. There is concern that the induction of the energy package will increase electricity prices to homes and companies in the country. Of course, their concern is based on the fact that when a energy package was introduced, there were increases in electricity for homes and businesses in the country, despite the claims of the government that it would not be. I just agree with what. A senator would find it perfectly normal to hear such concerns, e.g. The labor movement. The common European Union of Iceland, VR, and other unions are opposed to the induction of this energy package because they are concerned that it will lead to an increase in electricity prices for domestics and businesses in the country. I'm asking, Mr. President, shouldn't we listen to this concern? Is it not a minimum requirement for a careful consideration of the impact this will have on the homes and businesses of the country? I agree with what. A senator with the fact that you cannot bring in some irreprehensible statements, e.g. members of Congress have claimed that it is wrong that electrical power prices to homes and companies have increased by induction of a energy package alone. That's a serious matter, Mr. President, when members of Congress say this when it is possible to prove that they're wrong. Reports have been published on the rise in electrical prices to homes. This has been shown in accounts showing significant increases of up to tens of percent in the induction of a energy package one and two. [[The president calls.]] The tracks sure scare in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u299	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have found that the emphasis he has put in this discussion on the cost of households and companies from an increased electrical price following the induction of the third energy package. Clearly, the labor movement agrees with the language we have been living here this week. This was the case, for example. Send a substitution in the case of the Central Party, and what he's been doing here, from the Chairman of the VR, one of the largest trade unions in Iceland. So I'm here to say that while collective agreements are new, labor movement is infuriated and the labor movement is waiting for what happens next. Among them have been very impatient with waiting for tax laws, etc. which was promised by the government. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator, to see if he felt that he could remember the support we receive and the language we have here by the leaders of the labor movement and whether it is advisable for the government to take this matter - now well discussed and deeply - to postpone it until the fall and reach greater solidarity, as we have been interested throughout the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u300	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree, and did so in my first speech, that, of course, the matter should be delayed until the fall. That's totally harmless. Although this case will be delayed until the fall, it will not cause any damage to the government. On the contrary, ministers in the government have said in the early stages of this case that it would be wise to postpone it until the fall, to obtain more data, to do a detailed study on how the power package induction would contribute to the domestics and businesses of the country. The labor movement must be listened as it puts forth its own concerns. It is perfectly normal for us to be viewed as reasonable. Here we have just finished our so - called biographies contracts. There is considerable uncertainty around this agreement, since there is uncertainty about the establishment of the government. At the same time, the government and the government intend to run this case through which it is uncertain how the homes and companies in the country will be affected when electricity prices come into play. I agree here that this could be the way that you could settle. There is no way to cause a disturbance in the governance system, there is no way to cause any confusion in the EEA Convention, that this situation needs to be thoroughly and better addressed. I don't fully understand the fear that it will be done. Mr. President. I think it's a very sensible proposal that was named here by reason. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and other council members have agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u301	Mr. President. Yes, that's exactly what I was going to mention next, that excellent suggestion. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson to postpone the case until autumn, introduce it better. In fact, he wanted to introduce it on any other basis than we might have chosen, but that's all right. This matter may be brought to light. This case is complicated, it's big, it's impressive. It is unrepeatable, so there is much more to it than there is to be. I just wanted this relationship to get in. A member of the council, depending on whether he is now in a position to be a member of the government, and therefore the president of the council, will resort to further discussions with members of the Parliament or members of a council on this very concept. I'm not sure unless it's received widely. Admittedly, this would create a completely different way of handling the situation, regardless of what it would have to do in the near future. It is near to be sure that there would be much greater peace on this issue if it would be delayed until autumn and ask if it would be. A senator agrees with me that perhaps it would be right simply to challenge the government to do this - and after the events of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u302	Mr. President. Yeah, I think it's really important to review this proposal, which may not have been formally presented but this committee from the platform, to postpone the case until the autumn. We have to listen to the labor movement's anxieties. If this case were to be run through, what could be the result of a new biographer contract and subsequent increases in electrical prices would be observed in the country? As soon as this induction is through, some increase in electricity will be available to homes and businesses in the country because of increasing the monitoring costs of the electronic energy companies by 45%. These same companies report, in the review of the proposal, that they will increase into the prices. It's just a matter of time. But we do not know how much this amount will be. It has not been calculated to me, of course. It would have been natural for them to lie down. In this matter, there would be a measure of self - worth and natural preparation. Nor is the public generally not informed about this matter, and this is also serious because it is a big, big, and very important subject that matters to all of us, the lowest electrical price in Europe. It is a quality of life that we want to maintain in important living conditions. [[The president calls.]] I believe it is reasonable that this case will be seriously investigated until the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u303	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to appear in the platform because of the statement made by the Supreme Court. A president who was read on the President's chair this morning. Of course, there is much to consider in this discussion as extensive as the one going on. It was a few of the best indications. The President came with us this morning. First, we want to make sure that it's a president who decides the meeting board and the program. We have suggested that the matter be temporarily removed or until the fall, so that the matter is taken into consideration. Then it is important to consider that a large percentage of the talks made by the middle - class members have been taken outside the traditional meeting period, at night meetings, or at a higher meeting, as are the ones we are now. Thus, it must be maintained that they are not all at the usual meeting time. [[The president calls.]] May I pray to the highest. The President to put me back on schedule with the same team?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u304	Yes, President will. Hv. A senator then talks about a meeting manager a second time, or a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u305	V.E.G. President. Then what I wanted to do is come in. Notes were made at the highest level. President this morning about what kind of council members of the Central Party would object. It is vital that we be able to face up to our own party members according to the way the situation has been accomplished, i.e. how fast it was taken out of the Foreign Affairs Committee and how little time it worked to prepare. We are in a position to have to work down data steadily. Hence, we may find ourselves in a situation where we need to have a place to say to one another in order to deepen points that are presented. To show a color in these subjects, we will, although it is not a formal agreement, to approach the matter in the near future, so that we use it, unless something specific, only half the counter so that it is not specifically extended. We need to be able to communicate with one another, but we limit ourselves. I know it's not the big difference in time, but it's really a Hispanic thing about how we want to contribute so that we can settle for the important jobs that are being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u306	President thanks a lot. A senator's concern is what he will do. Congress officials have considered matters between meetings, as the president suggested. It even appeared. in this, which the president also considers to improve on the face of the discussion. Because it is quite difficult to explain to people that an answer to a five - minute talk can take up to 20 minutes, as well as the Trinity, as it was passed in the middle of the last decade, is that they can hold countless five - minute talks, and there is not a complete difference between the counterargument and simply the next speech. The President is taking it well and thanking you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u307	President. I was beginning to discuss the economic consequences of the induction of the third energy package in Iceland. The evaluation of economic impacts has only been discussed in Norway, but I have reasoned that the impact here in Iceland would be much greater - and yet the Norwegian analysis is very conclusively negative. There is a black report on the economic consequences of the induction of the third energy package in Norway. In short, I had described the impact it has on society if energy prices rise, and if there is no longer a basis for the foundation of industry, or a new such activity chooses to start rather, for example. Europe, closer to markets than in this country. This results in a very significant chain reaction. However, this is not just a matter of industry, industry, and such. Bioavailability to cleaner energy as it is still here in Iceland, although accounting may show otherwise, and energy at a competitive price directly affects almost every sector. This is not only a matter of chain reaction from the industry I have traced but also of direct influence. You can, for example, do so. Consider the largest exports of the country, the tourism services. I don't know if they've realized that making hotels requires an enormous amount of electricity to light up the hotels and run a number of machines involved in this kind of operation. In some places, room and hotels may even have to use electricity for sexual relations. If we are going to consider this important exporting process, it will lay hold on energy prices in which, in another case, its competitive status is being undermined by international tourism - and competitive competition. But there is more. Other basic tasks, such as agriculture, as well as fishing, are greatly affected by rising energy prices. But it is not only because of the increase in energy prices but also because of the fact that a certain advantage has been involved, for this business and another operation in Iceland, to be able to boast of using pure energy in its production. A fishing industry, for example, has used this fact to add only its competitive prelude to foreign branches of the same nature. In fact, almost every business here in Iceland could be passed and shown how important it is, to the competitiveness of the sector in the country, to have access to environmental energy at controlled prices. When the situation is that it is both this chain reaction that I described in a previous talk, in terms of enterprises that use extraordinary amounts of energy, and so directly influence almost every other business, this directly affects almost every employee in the country - and hence on the income of rural society, while earnings the state's funds. And speaking of rural areas in the country, they are now another example of individuals who would suffer significant financial losses if they had to start paying higher energy prices to describe the streets or to run the complex activities that rural society has to do. The conclusion is: Energy prices affect the entire business, both public and private, in Iceland - and are responsible for a very significant direct and indirect impact on the quality of the public life in the whole of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u308	A respectable president. I see that I have made a great deal of myself at the beginning of this arrangement. I'd like to start a discussion today with these core points of support for the energy package that has been all over the discussion and in what way they look at me as a middle-class member, in this discussion during the last few days. It is claimed that the approach of our skeptics to the induction is being made, according to the work plan at the highest level. Secretary of state and supreme. Industrial Ministers have set up, if necessary, to undermine the EEA agreement. Far from it. We feel that to put pressure on the contract, something becomes more real to the concerns we in the Central Party. The rules, regulations, and actions of all and the package will be first put under pressure and no way out of the position that people will possibly find in a situation other than making a dramatic demand for a review or a review of the agreement. It is not likely that this will be the case followed by the joint EEA committee according to Article 102. In this regard, Dr. Baudenbacher's group has been flaunted as a bit of a cry, there is a great risk of going that way. In that case, the fact is that in Dr. Baudenbachers's 15th report, it is said that the matter is indiscriminately for the subject to be placed on the scene as the 102th. leads it in. It is essential to keep the risks in relation to the future of the EEA Convention to nothing less, and even more, if the way is taken to the highest level. Secretary of State wants to take this case. Another factor that is the central element of incorporation into these materials is meant for warnings. I see at the top. The minister of foreign affairs has entered the hall, and it will be interesting to have a word with him. I hereby declare that he is representing us, of course, the middle-class members of the rosary, and that he wishes it, at any convenient time. The premonitions have been hugely airy, apparently. Of course, it was an option to see the incident that happened here. Monday, when the council members were running around the Assembly Hall, looking for answers like kids on Easter egg hunts. There is one thing that has been greatly promoted when asked: What's in it for us? - Excuse me, chief. President. What's in this for us Icelanders? What are the benefits to our business and to our country's home? It has been pointed out primarily that there are great opportunities now open to switch power dealers. Families can achieve a lot of practicality in electrical purchases, up to 2,500 dollars. decrease in the month to 30,000 K. per year, at a reduced cost. But when you look more closely, it is a warrant that has been present for years and has nothing to do with the introduction of a so-called third energy package. To the extent that few seem to avail themselves of this document, the facts are quite clear. There is no indication that the above line of reasoning would support a home's reaching $30,000 bill. reduction per year is realistic, that these are the real problems they see, and they receive invitations that are reaching out for such offers. All of these core elements of those who are supplied with the induction of the third energy package on the basis of which the minister of state has made up the highest form. Industrial Minister seems weak, at best. That is why it is a pleasure to do so. Secretary of state has arrived in the country, and hopefully we'll have a place to deal with him in the near future. I'll give myself to the highest. A minister comes in a talk later and tries to explain more fully than we have heard in the past what will happen to the so - called warnings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u309	Before the president gives a reply, he agrees with what. A senator; as you can see here is the highest. Secretary of state is in the hall and can be with us for a while. I'm encouraging it. Councilmen who have said that they are interested in asking him questions, taking advantage of this opportunity. V.E.G. A minister responds to an incident by gathering questions and giving a talk or by responding favorably.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u310	We'd like to pay for taking advantage of the time while the foreign minister is with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u311	The president accepts the announcement that the fall is from response. [[Up front.]] - Falling from the word. There is a president, as it were, without any reason that everyone would fall away from the word, for then the discussion would be over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u312	Mr. President. I'm glad we have the highest. Secretary of state amongst us. There's a lot of discussion about the third energy package, on the basis of which it is built, and on the legal analysis it has made. All of this has been raised by a series of thought - provoking questions. I'd like to mention a few things. Some legal views exist as evidence of the matter - I'm saying that when discussing the facts and the highest, you have to measure your words accurately. Secretary of state on the one. These terms, however, are a great deal of proselytism. One has received more attention than another. This is the opinion of the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, who is drawn up two ways, as it were, or solutions. One makes a strong point, and it seems quite clear that their main proposal is to seek reconciliation on the scene of the joint committee. This they make in their letter to the highest degree. The minister of the State, dated April 10th, cannot be understood differently, so that they stress this approach. But the government has chosen to follow a different route, and that path is untested. She's unscrupulous. At that point, there is nothing for the so - called legal issue, no legal opinion. It's not really available in such a big case. Legal warnings have shown that he is highly confused, especially in view of the fact that he has been cast out, at least one of four or five suggestions, suggestions, or claims about where he will look. It is enough to mention a paper with a synopsis proposal at the highest level. Secretary of State, joint declaration highest. Secretary of State and Energy for Europe, a joint statement made by the EFTA countries at a meeting of the joint committee on May 8 of the past, some text to be included in a Regulation to the highest degree. Sir, please report to the Minister of Industrial Affairs. This is not satisfying. It is clear that none of these things can have any national value. So here are large questions, on the one hand, regarding where this legal advance is being searched, and of course, a legal opinion on national rights needs to be taken in advance. The need to discuss the third energy package in relation to the fourth, which has been reported in the media to be ready now has been discussed. It's called a winter pack. It is only that these energy packages are evaluated in context, and it must be viewed as a way to agree with the third will make it much more difficult to see if such defects would be found on the 4th that it was considered necessary to reject them. There are other factors. There is a lack of an analysis of economic impact through the introduction of this energy package, and in particular there is a lack of analysis of energy prices, a factor to make up our Uncle Norse have been very worried about. So there are many questions upstairs. One more: Environmental and Nature effects. I complete this list, Mr. President, but restate the need to obtain clear answers and hard - hitting legal opinions on legal matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u313	President. I had planned to come on a point that was wrong. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson briefly mentioned in his talk, the fourth energy pack and the combination of the third and fourth energy package. It cannot be torn apart, especially in the light of how the government and its support groups argue that we need to introduce the third part. The logical support will, of course, be drawn by the European Union and others who may want to contribute to the induction of the fourth energy package and, in fact, the changes that have already been made on the third, the government will resist. In other words, the Icelandic government will have weakened our chances of fighting against the induction of the fourth energy package, and they will be able to use their own support against it. I'm not talking about when Ministers have been trying to argue that the induction of the third energy package is just a necessary continuation of the past, that men incorporated the first and second and have spoken for many years about the third, and therefore they need to be introduced. How will this be reversed when the fourth energy package comes along? I'm surprised we didn't get a presentation on this fourth energy package in line with the third. This is particularly strange, since we now understand that an organization and men in a town have received such presentations, but the Icelandic government has shown no opportunity to insert the Council into what is expected by the fourth energy package, what changes - such as making Regulation 347/2013 - and how it is introduced into this energy package. This is especially serious because we know how this system works. It works like a tooth wheel that can only turn one way. We've been reviewing the discussion when one of the energy directives was legalized. Men like Björn Bjarnason warned very carefully about it, and it actually made men of the various categories. But the minister of that time, Valgerður Sverrisdóttir, was deeply concerned that it would help the day when a second energy directive should have been introduced. Then we see the story all over again, and we can draw conclusions about it. In fact, it seems over and over again that despite warnings by politicians, despite warnings from many members of the community, the system is ultimately dominated. And no system is as strong as pushing forward in writing ways as the European Union. That is why we should pay very little attention to continuing induction. That's one of the reasons, of course, there are many, just as we've discussed here. Then there is the evidence to reject the third energy package or even reassign it to the Community Committee that it may somehow compromise the European Union or the EEA community activities. These too are reasons that would be involved in future defenses, whether by Regulation 347/2013 or by the total fourth energy pack. Those who do not trust themselves to put the third energy package in the position it is now, have not been created, in the process of reconciliation that the EEA Treaty offers - will the rest be the same as saying that it is justified to ask questions about changing the regulations that are introduced into some sort of fear that the EEA may even be at risk? Some have allowed themselves to indicate, by what I would call a fear-sill, that the EEA community might be at risk just that the Icelanders want to get checked out that there are types that are not supposed to have any significance here and that are not suitable for us economically, that we are not socially suitable for political purposes - if we don't trust ourselves to discuss such things now, you don't see that men will be able to defend themselves at any later stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u314	Mr. President. First of all, I am glad to see the highest. Secretary of State, and thank him for taking the time to be here. It is important, and it could lead to a different and better light. I don't know if they've been crying abroad, but a meeting has been held for some time with very good discussions. [[What?]] I may, for one, feel sorry for the highest. Foreign Ministers lost them, they were meaningful and good. There is one legal opinion that has not been very much discussed in this discussion, which is the opinion of the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson Eyjolf. I'm just going to refer to it in this talk. He says in a summary: The third energy package is to be turned down by the General Assembly and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such treatments do not threaten the EEA agreements and are fully in accordance with its regulations. Electricity is the largest natural resource in Iceland and as an island in the North Atlantic, it is not part of the EU internal energy market, since Iceland's electricity distribution system is not linked to the internal market. The Icelandic government's rejection by the Generals is expected to ask that at its decision, the EU's actions on electricity and on the Community services are not relevant for Iceland. This would be the first time in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention, which a management executive would be used, and a case referred back to the Committee, for the first time intended to transport Iceland's major natural resources to the national and regular activities of the EU internal energy market, a market not part of which Iceland is part.◯ I'm gonna let it go. I naturally forgot to ask a president for permission to read this, do it at this hour. I'm just gonna be able to read this chapter out, because this is the core. There's been a little debate that in the EEA contract there are articles, mainly 102. g., who literally assumes that reconciliation is a process of reconciliation when there are differences and when a person wants to explain matters. In itself, it is not necessary to fulfill it, as is the case with this fine lawyer who is very convincing in this series of articles. There is nothing that is needed in order to follow the path he offers other than courage. I know it's the highest. The minister of state is brave, and I also know that he must be concerned that more part of his party is opposed to this contract as he is now available. This is just a kind suggestion in great modesty and humility that I offer to the highest degree. Secretary of State, but I think it would be both wise and good if a minister would postpone this case until the fall so that it could be considered better, looking for greater peace. I'm almost sure a better message could be the highest. Ministers not taking him to the 90th birthday party of the Independence Party in Valhalla tomorrow. I could keep a long number, and I'll probably do that afterwards, for all the parties who are against this deal as it now looks. The labor movement, garden prayer, bakers, domestic interests. You can list the rural administrations, the rural management of whole, 9:0, and other rural governments. There's such a general resistance to this case like it's tore up, to the highest. Minister, and I can explain in my next speech how badly this case is prepared and how badly it's taken over. That's not what I'm going to do right now. I'm just going to get the attention. Minister of this legal entity, this conclusion, and encourage him to attend a banquet in Valhalla tomorrow with this good message. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u315	President will give it to him. A member of the council may retrace a written text without the approval of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u316	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u317	But that is not an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u318	I won't ask again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u319	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. The minister of foreign affairs has entered the building and is ready to have a word with us about the concerns we have described regarding the introduction of this directive. I've been particularly concerned about the development of electrical prices for enterprises and households in the country by implementing EU energy directives, energy packages one and a pack of two, and now a pack of three. I've shown that there were significant increases in electricity prices for households and businesses in the country at the induction of energy packages one and two. This has members of the council and, in fact, some of the members of the council. The head of the State Department, what? paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, protested that we were wrong, that there were no raises. First, I want to ask the highest. Foreign minister to that: Is it appropriate to do so? A senator and head of the National State Department challenge that there has been an increase in energy prices and companies in the country as you demonstrate data, accounts, newspapers reporting from 2005 that show a decimal increase in electricity to homes and businesses due to the implementation of energy packages one and two? The main reason is the fact that such a special term was prohibited by induction of one and two. It's not quite clear, topv. Minister, there's a problem. Councilmen misled the discussion and are simply wrong with the common people? This is what matters when it comes to the matter, electrical power to homes and businesses of the country. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to whether or not he is concerned that the labor movement in the country is deeply concerned about this matter and particularly because of the rise of the electricity prices of companies and citizens in the country. This is what stands next to the public in the country. It has been said that this induction is of no relevance because the cable is not laid, so we do not have to worry about the case, so electrical prices do not increase. But with the energy package, which is a natural collection of regulations, we are about to implement Directive No. 72/2009. It says "F" section 37. " to ensure that there are no cross-overs between transport, distribution and delivery functions. This reduces the government's ability to supply electricity to cold areas, for example, those without heating, for food production, etc. An energy pack of three is essential for a cable to come. However, we see here that despite the lack of sea cables, it is not yet necessary to ensure that there are no subsidies. I'm pointing out that the house warming power is being subsidized today. I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Will this regulations prohibit the use of electricity for house warming? No other issue can be read from the Regulation. According to the words, it will be prohibited. This will translate into an even greater increase in electricity for households and businesses in the country. It's a legitimate concern, chief. Minister. Then I want to reiterate what I said before, to get a minister's opinion on whether this is not a concern for the government that the labor movement is against this energy package, the induction of this directive, in view that new biographies have just been made, and this can affect the many clients of these unions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u320	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of State for spending part of the day with us today. I know the Minister's schedule is well organized. There are two things I would like to include in my talk. In both cases, there is a question I'm referring to the highest. Minister. On the one hand, it reverses what has been used as one of the nuclear factors in evidence that the energy package will be introduced in the highest possible way. Minister, it turns to consumers' or consumer protection. Here we go. Chairman of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, several times up and more representatives of the government party. They said that one of the events that would be achieved by this induction was increasing consumer protection and freedom of consumers. People could switch electric energy dealers, which could guarantee home up to 2,500 bucks. decrease in monthly costs, ◯ edifying to 30,000 k. every year. I was interested in the importance of that point, and I examined the Senate resolution as it is, to the greater part of the State Department, the debate of the highest order. The minister and the debate of the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee when it was recommended for a committee. There was no special emphasis on these matters, the end of the day, and it knew such things as most in the hall, I think, that this change in consumer rights had arrived at earlier levels, so it has little to do with the induction of the third energy package. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What are the main effects of increasing consumer protection and greater interests in a wide sense, households in the country that are achieved through the induction of this third pack of energy? Because what was picked up as a rational support for that particular point did not seem to be true when it was being addressed. There was an increase in translucency. I have to admit that I never really got what was being pointed out. So I leave this as a question for the highest. Minister. The other thing I wanted to ask the highest. Minister out to the end of time. I have an interview with the Minister in the Morning edition of November 15, 2018. The headline of the story is: the greatest energy pack to spring ◯, which is then the spring Parliament, which is now working. There is an interview at the highest level. Minister of Guðlaugur, Þór Thor Þórðarson, who says it is likely that the case will be delayed to us. The next day comes the highest. Industrial Minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir for interview in the same issue of November 16, 2018, under the heading "No Reservation of the Energy Package." During the interview at the highest. Prime Minister says, with permission of the minister: It is not excluded that the implementation of a third EU energy package will be extended beyond spring Summit. Which means at least Until the fall of 2019 and possibly longer, as can be understood by the words of the Supreme Court. A minister where she says, by permission of the president: I've always said we're not in a hurry, and we want to take a close look. I'd like to hear the highest stand. Secretary of State, why the ass is as great and seems to shine through with the approach that has been taken at the input and introduction of the case, and when we approach the minister's assessment of our own conduct. And whether he is totally off guard of using summer to work things out in a more balanced way. The conclusion could be that of doing things exactly the same way. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, however, there would be an opportunity to introduce the matter more fully to the civilian population. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u321	Mr. President. I'm glad to meet you. Minister of State here at the General Hall and welcome him to the country. I hope he can put words into this discussion and seek to answer the questions of our members of the Central Party, who have been considering various aspects of this matter. The previous speakers here today have raised some questions, and I'm going to put something into the bag myself, starting with what is called a legal exercise. When it turned out in the winter that there was a great deal of opposition to the implementation of a third EU energy directive and in various categories as well as to the members of the Constitution - and when the case appears after a legal opinion in many places, which is full of warnings that there may be laws in this directive or regulations that threaten the Constitution - the case is presented here before the council and that it should be introduced by legal warnings. Then the case appears to be organized within the administration parties, and all opposition seems to be gone within the House of Congress. I ask: We've been looking for these legal instructions in the management committees. They have identified various points, words, various declarations, regulations, law, etc. I'm just going to review this legal notice that we've heard from the Board of Directors that we're actually warning them that they're being handled so that they can be taken through the council. First, the European Commission's declaration, such as the European Commission's Commission of Energy, the Miguels of Arias Cañete, of Iceland's special status, that Iceland is an island - that this declaration is a legal exercise. Is that true? Is this the legal court, a statement by one of Europe's energy managers? Is that legal, chief? Secretary of state? Second, the joint statement by the EFTA states from early May on regarding Iceland's special status, the state of state that there is no sea cable and therefore there is a great understanding of our uniqueness. We know that statement. Is this the legal one? Third, the bill for changes in electricity laws submitted before the council and is still being treated for a slight change at 9. Well, if I remember correctly. However, when that change is considered, it becomes evident that a very similar wording is already in the electricity law at 39 C.E. a. Then I ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Is this the legal court? Fourth: An overview of the terms presented here has been made on the top page. 3 Since Iceland's special status is largely on trial, I don't think it's a sea cable that will come here only with the approval of the government, which I would think would require up to one thing. Is this the legal one? Commission has been identified as being expected. Now I have in my hands a plan for that Regulation. This Regulation will be awaiting the signature of the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers, but it has not been signed. The Regulation, published by one of the councils of the Iceland government, contains expressions similar to those I've mentioned, about Iceland's special status, that there are no sea cables and that they will not be laid without the approval of the Allied Council. Is this Regulation the legal court, the highest. Secretary of state? I have many other questions. My time is soon over. I think it's best, as long as it's unclear, in great opposition to most of the country's population and including the rest of the country. in great opposition to government supporters, all classes involved in Iceland's government, to postpone this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u322	Mr. President. It must have been a shock to the government when she looked at the legal factor of Friurik's Friðrik Árni Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. Therefore, if we speak on the other hand about the possible conflict with the requirements of the Constitution, it is held at least twice in the opinion that they believe that they are firmly confident that the induction of this energy package is in accordance with the requirements of the constitution. Real doubt is the wording they use, quite doubt, Mr. President. They go beyond doing research with the constitution because they study the material requirements of the regulations and commands under which they are under them. Their conclusions, to be summed up, are three words; organization, disposition, and usefulness. What they say is this: They believe that the regulations of Regulation 713/2009 include that foreign institutions receive at least An indirect effect, is the wording, on the organization, the design and use of the country's very important sources of energy. It is evident, Mr. President, of the opinion that some kind of communication has been made with the State Department. The sixth chapter of the opinion is a source. Since then, for some reason, they have felt it necessary to write to the highest level. Secretary of State, it is dated April 10, where they take the opportunity to state that, in the legal sense, the proposal, which I consider to be the main proposal of the case, is to be referred to the joint EEA committee and be treated on the basis of agreements in the agreement itself. This is the situation. The reaction is that instead of going to the main proposal of the two cultures, it is chosen to go through the usual procedure of the tolerated type, but with what has been called a legal arrangement. This legal advance vanished from four o'clock in May 15, the past in a speech by husk. The senator and the chairman of the Party of Independence, when he answered in such a way that he was not there, although I do not have precise words on hand. Here comes a few, and is memorable, to various members of the government's support team and its groups in this and, in fact, others. In the meantime, any speculation and claims on where the legal court is looking have been made. When and if it is found, a thorough legal opinion must be provided to determine the national significance of such warnings. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say this: I don't recall the last election campaign campaign saying the third energy package was mentioned. I thus consider that none of the three administrations of their voters to deviate from the principle in the European partnership we have proposed, that while making negotiations, mutually, there is no possibility that instead of opening access to resources would be access. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u323	V.E.G. President. During this discussion, we have received a number of queries and tips and encouragement from public citizens in town. That doesn't seem too good to be the case. Since a minister is away from the hall for now, it is futile to recite these questions when he cannot accept them, they will have to wait for the next talk. What we have been stressing in this discussion is, first of all, the general opposition to this matter and the danger of it - here comes the highest. Minister again, I'm happy again, and I'll just start where I quit. During the days and nights of this discussion, we have received all kinds of tips, inquiries, and other requests from people who have observed the discussion day and night. There have been questions like this: Has a minister spoken with e.g. Norwegians, Liechtensteins, or even European representatives to see how they would take it if we were to use 102.g. Send the case into a contract? Does a minister have any information on that? If no one in particular, what am I supposed to say, threats have come from these parties, or large comments to that if we were to do this, is there anything against going that way? Then there are two things about Norway. Now part of the induction in Norway is in conflict and will be taken into charge of the administrative court as we are told on September 23. Now I ask a minister: If we were to bring in this package as it is now, however, the Norwegians would throw it out of the administrative court, where would we stand? Is not wise, chief. Minister, postponing the case until the fall, see what comes out of the administrative court in Norway before we go all the way? I reiterate that, of course, we should use 102. Okay, we shouldn't be afraid to use the whole deal. We don't have to pick it out like it's on a buffet. We're supposed to take advantage of it all. I'm going to reiterate once more: It's very important to try to settle this matter through the council. There are 62% of the population surveyed against this issue today as it is. The treading of the matter, as it is now in the neck of these people, is not a good thing to do. It has been observed, as I previously traced, that the common unions, unions, are opposed to the case as it seems today. Garden farmers, bakers, home. There's too much at stake, tops. Minister. I trust in you, and I trust you to make a wise decision in this matter, which could lead to a much greater improvement in the Council and in society all about it, because it is necessary. This case is much bigger than Trinitarian. [[The president calls.]] And it in itself is not that it has formed here, but it had to happen. [[The president calls.]] Someone had to take up this fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u324	Mr. President. That's quite a lot of questions we've asked here for the highest degree. Secretary of State and I'm going to add to that. I suppose he has to make a clear record of all this, understandable. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister to whether he has discussed with the European Commission officials and/or Norway the situation that arises if the package of energy returns to the European Commission, particularly in the light of the previous EU declarations and the EFTA, i.e. the maximum possible effect. Ministers have talked to EU and Norway's officials about the situation that arises if the energy package goes back to the joint EEA committee and particularly in the light of their previous declarations. I also want to ask the highest. Ministers, whether the representatives of the European Union or Norway administration pressured or even threatened that if Iceland were to take advantage of legal rights, found in the EEA Convention and in 102. ... to wish for a release from the Joint EEA Commission, it would be used as a punishment. Have these people been threatening some sort of thing? I also remind you it's not in the spirit of this article. It is in the spirit of the article to seek reconciliation. I think it's a little important to get an introductory answer from the highest level. Minister in this regard. If there are no threats from these sources, the European Commission and EFTA authorities, what is in the way of asking for annuity with the EEA Commission? It was also good to get it out, and thank you very much. Secretary of state for that, that the three energy pack would have little meaning for Iceland. I think it should be a guide for the EEA joint committee to support this legal release that is of great importance to us. I think the highest. Secretary of state sees that that's the best thing in this matter. Then we don't have to worry about it. Then there's no doubt about it. Then there is the best way to go as a candidate, an expert who has been quoted many times, to Friðrik Hirst and Stefán Már, to say that it was the best way. But so I just keep moving on a little bit, time goes by fast. I have another question. This declaration, i.e. EFTA and the EU, about their understanding of our position: Are these declarations binding to these governments? But what about all the other lawyers who base their rights on the deal? Have them e.g. declared that they will not demand the government to fulfill its duties as included in a pack of three energy directives? Finally, Mr. President, for the advance in Norway. The language in Norway was very hot, hot, and much discussion took place in the Norwegian Council. Then you ask yourself, " Why should the warnings we make here, or the government, rather than the warnings in Norway? ' And is it not necessary to obtain an analysis of the Norwegian experience of the induction and the subsequent actions of these eight warnings and responses to the European Union? I hope to the highest. Ministers have managed to record all of this. [[The president calls.]] If not, I can just come back here and repeat the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u325	A respectable president. That's not a good idea, at least. Not a universal rule, that a minister should address a matter under discussion at the council like this. I remember one of my nice friends, blessed be his memory, making it very unnecessary if a minister showed up on the matter of Congress, that was so. paritaprevir Pétur Blöndal, but since it has been called for me to express myself here, that's why I'm going to do it. I'm going to try to answer the questions that were raised here. Because of a question why. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, let me just say that no one has threatened us. The foreign people who have been involved in this matter are people I know. I'll be completely informed that I've talked to them and I've been telling them, as it is, that I regret their involvement in Icelandic domestic affairs. Here I refer to the Norwegian Central Party and the League No to EU, who strongly oppose the EEA agreement by all means and have a share used very extensively in this matter. I said, if I say so, to the person that it's nice to have the currency in the country when they come here to visit us, but to bring the standard letters in this discussion in order to scare the American public is not well received from my side. But, of course, it's a free country. However, one of the things we must ask ourselves seriously is how normal it is for foreign political powers to exercise in a particular matter - in this case, they have for decades promoted the Norwegians from the EEA to try everything they can to harm the EEA. I'm wondering how much they've taken advantage of this discussion in this country for a very long time and I'm not saying anything I haven't said to them. I shall quite admit that when this case came up, as I think I went through during the council and elsewhere, I thought that of the big statements that lived up to a good reason to look into this matter. Hence, the government decided to postpone the case despite a long discussion, going through the council, and three o'clock. Committees recommend its induction. This can be considered in the evidence. If I remember correctly, it was the years of 20131⁄2016. The question is what? State Department, huh? Board of directors and surveillance committees and what. A professional health committee. Similarly, any scholars in this case have concluded that we do not have to worry about this induction. One scholar, though, had doubts that have often been cited, which is Stefán Stefánsson. The two reasons that were specifically mentioned were on the other hand the command factor, and the concern, perhaps not the scholar, or I have not seen it, that we were getting involved in some principle environment that would mean that we had to put in this cable, whether we wanted it or not. Now it is known that the debate over cable has often been intense. I don't think it's at any point when I say it. paritaprevir The case was of great interest to Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, but this discussion was a few years ago. Among other things, we were put on a PCI list, but it made it clear that there would be no debt for the government to commit it. Similarly, the agreement between the prime minister of Iceland and Britain was made to take a special look at these matters. However, there is concern about what the consequences would be if we were associated with Europe. To make a long story short, our conclusion was to apply the advice of those who had the most conservative view of the administration principle. Here's a lot of quote, but I have to admit that I don't really think it's in the right context. So, with the permission of the President, I'm going to read a press release from the State Department of State from April 10, 2018, where it's all combined. It says: Last night, at the General Assembly of the First Conference on Foreign Minister's Reconsistencies Act on Confirmation of the decision made by the Joint Commission No. 93/2017 of change in IV. Annex (Power) to the EEA Convention This was when we moved the matter and the previous one. was here about the synopsis proposal discussed. ▪ By the Parliament's resolution proposal, the Allied Council allows to reduce the administrative advance of the decision made by the joint EEA on recording of the so-called third energy package in the EEA Convention. In view of the viewpoints presented during the discussion, the foreign minister requested further explanations from experts who worked on bodies that follow the Parliament's arrangement. Már Stefánsson of the University of Iceland's Law, and Frederic Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, a lawyer is due the following for this occasion in a letter to the minister of foreign law: 1st There is no legal question that the way we suggested and proposed is fundamental in the Congressary decree of the minister of state is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. In view of the above - quoted scholar, it is quite clear that there is no legal question that the method they proposed is in accordance with the constitution. ▪2. The defects we believe are on this route solely depend on whether the uptake and induction of the model would be appropriate for consideration on the part of the ESA, i.e. the implementation of the protocol meets national commitments according to the EEA Convention. 3. Although we feel that this route is not over all legal doubt in this regard, we feel very unlikely that the ESA will make comments on this way. The reasons are as follows: a. This Regulation is adopted and implemented. b. Its directives regarding electrical transfers between countries are not to be carried out unless such a connection is established. c. Such a connection will be established only with the approval of the Generals, under the legal instructions at the introduction. d. The selected forms of ACER (ESA) do not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Council decides to link Iceland to the EU's nuclear power market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. In view of the fact that Iceland is not linked to the EU internal energy market, the likelihood that ESAs make comments to the induction is greatly reduced in our opinion. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance in this context. 4. In our opinion, we also suggested another way, that the Council rejected the introductions and that the case would be restored to the joint EEA committee with the view that Iceland would receive an exception. This means that there is a legal advantage beyond the means set out in which it does not include the legal uncertainties described above. 5. However, this way is not without blemish like the other. They are subject to the unique nature of the EEA agreement and of the partnership. As noted, this has not been fully tested for the 25 - year history of the contract, so there have been many political uncertainties regarding the consequences. It may be a challenge to have such an exception approved. We've been asked why we don't use the 102 str. Although it's all right and I can agree with the viewpoint it presented in a letter to me from scholar Friðrik Már and Friðriksson Hirst. On top of that, we were able to evaluate the local and foreign parties. There's no way to argue, which is, of course, totally obvious, that there's something built into the contract that this way should be gone when people just feel like that. If that were the case, it would probably have been a long history of 25 years, but that has never been done. I don't think there's any better specialists than the one we got to appreciate. On the one hand, we have the International and European Court for the University of Reykjavík and Carl Baudenbacher, who is known here. Carl Baudenbacher, with permission from the President, concludes the review of his opinion: In view of all of this, it must be concluded that there is a possibility of rejecting the uptake of new EU laws in the EEA. However, the issue discussed below is not an appropriate reason for the grip of the emergency inhibitor. The same conclusion is reached at the University of Reykjavík at the International and European Court forum. After all, the situation is simply that we are not connected to this inner market. It's quite clear that it's us, i.e. The General Assembly of the Icelanders, who will decide if we are going that way. Inside what has been presented before us. Councilmen are in a committee study with a change in bill proposal to correct the conversion of electrical law No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the employment committee, specifically specified, i.e. The Regulation, which has not been signed, cannot be signed until we have concluded the matter. It says, by permission of the president: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009 with regard to electrical connections between countries not being carried out in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Sources that make it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will be built only after the approval of the Generalis and review of the administrative law under the scope of the Regulation. A respectable president. This is very clear. The question is, Why don't we put off this matter? The reason we do not postpone this matter is that there is no reason to do so. Here people rightly say: "Hey, there's only a lot of people who are worried about this case. That's right, it's just right, but the advantage of finishing this case is that they'll see that those who went here very much and with a lot of fear do it out of place. I've seen these things happen before. I remember the 1995 election well. At that time, I was running for the Independence Party for a different district than I was now and, actually, an election manager. One and a half years earlier had been the longest debate in history. I've read a little bit of that conference talk, and it's definitely not like speaking at all, and it's now. This was not discussed in those elections because they immediately realized that it was not the basis for these big statements. The same is true here. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, if there are any other issues to consider in this matter. There are men here, for example. I don't know why, I don't know that after the third energy pack is approved, we can't subsidize to house warming. It's just totally in our power. We put 2,000 million each year in the house - to - house subsidies now. Why do we have 2,000 million? Because the Allied Council of Iceland decided to put 2,000 million into it. If the Allied Congress decides to put 2,500 million in the house - to - house subsidies, we put 2,500 million into it. If the Allied Congress decides to add 1,500 million, 1,500 million will go to the subsidies. There's nothing in the third energy package that changes it, exactly nothing. However, if you refer to this subject for the discussion in Norway, and there is no evidence that the warnings given there were not effective, you are therefore linked with Europe by its benefits and weaknesses. Why do Norwegians have links to Europe? Because they decided on their own. No one forced them to do so. A respectable president. I feel that the questions raised here have been answered by experts in the trial because of the third energy package that everyone can read, which has been on the website since April 10, 2018. Then you have to read the whole letter. That could not be clearer. I'm going to reread the first spot because there was still another claim here, and then I'm going to refer to these scholars: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamental to the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the Constitution. These are the words of the scribes Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst. They continue to say: "In our opinion, the fact is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u326	Mr. President. I offer the highest. The minister of state welcomes home and thanks him for honoring us with his presence. We have been eager to hear from the highest. Minister, but I have to say, at least... I was disappointed by a talk that led to my disappointment. Minister who only moved the old programme here and ended up by referring to the Ministry's Homepage. I seem to be at the highest. A minister has not been observing the discussion and all that has been presented in the past. Yeah, and then he had the old story told me that I had talked about sea cables with David Cameron. I loved to hear that because there was further evidence of the highest degree. A minister would have no new argument. If the highest. A minister would like to look at it then see that I have never been a spokesman for a cable, and even risking being rude in dealing with British prime minister when I agreed to examine a sea cable, but at the same time I thought he would not be suitable for Iceland. In view of the highest. A minister specifically once again mentioned his conspiracy theory that the Norwegian Central Party, our fine sisters, is behind all of this, I can inform the highest level of enlightenment. Minister that I have not had any contact with the Norwegian Middle East on this matter, but asks the highest. Secretary of the opposite: has the highest. Ministers are monitoring the discussion on this matter in Norway? Well, I hope he realizes that it's not just the Norwegian Middle East that's had doubts about the induction of the third energy package there, that's the labor movement, that's a big part of the public. This was not the Labour Party, however, that only agreed to a certain degree to allow the case through the council if eight legal warnings were adopted. Why have not these premonitions been formally introduced here before the council? Why Have They Really Been Concealed? Why did the Icelandic government not have reason to try at least The same kind of advance as Norwegians? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u327	A respectable president. See now what kind of rudeness you've got. A senator to whom the prime minister showed David Cameron It is quite new that when you disagree with someone, you start a team of working men to look at the suggestions they make. It's a completely new kind of rudeness that no one has ever heard of. I have to admit that. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory is with all the most polite men if his way of showing rudeness is to set off a working force to examine an idea he is against because it is not suitable for his people. A respectable president. It doesn't make any sense. Hv. A senator meets Britain's prime minister, and they decide to set up a team for sea cables. That's what happened. And I have to admit that I feel that something has gone low for the debate if he didn't want to do it, but he did it because he was opposed. If so, there's a whole new surface on the case. That means why. A senator has a very difficult time getting up. If he was opposed to a sea cable, he should only say so, not order a group, but least in his own time put the cable on the PCI list. Hv. A senator said I had referred to the Department of State's Homepage. What was it I was referring to, a respectable president? I was just referring to the trial by specialists because of the third energy package. Which experts were they, a respectable president? Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst Hv. A senator says that I was here to refer to the U.S. Department of State's Homepage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u328	Mr. President. I suppose the President noticed that. V.E.G. Minister is completely irrational. All we heard here were some exits continuing through his transponder theory. I didn't say it was rude to look into it. On the contrary, I said it would be rude to say at the same time who you thought the result would be. But I, unlike the highest. A minister, would normally like to consider a matter to prove the truth. And in the case of a cable, I thought, as I explained at the time, that it would not be suitable for the Icelanders. Regarding the Ministry Homepage, the highest name. Minister before you could see all of this on the website. I wasn't talking about Stefán Már and the Friðrik Árni, I was talking about it as the highest. The secretary said about the website, the line given to members of the Independence Party. Has the highest. Will a minister be interested in answering my question about Norway? Or do we just get an extension of some kind of error in the manner of the house?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u329	A respectable president. I once referred to the U.S. Department's home page, and then I was referring to the scholars, to a letter they sent me. Then, because you listened to the way he spoke about his approach to the cable, I, by permission of a president, will read a report from 29 October 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u330	Will You Answer the Question?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u331	The headline is the group Sigmundur Cameron and his crew set up for sea cables. The terms of the contract are that corporate prices and households will not increase. Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, the prime minister of Iceland, and the prime minister of Britain, David Cameron, decided to set up a working group for sea cables between Iceland and Britain. The staff should report the matter within six months. If a sea cable is decided to be set, the project is expected to take about ten years of building. According to a statement on the Ministry's Web, if prices for homes and companies do not increase, the need for a cable to be laid. A respectable president. This isn't someone who doesn't want to look at it. [[Up front.]] Have I observed the discussion in Norway? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Of course we've done it, and it's nothing... A respectable president. I encourage everyone to evaluate for themselves what to do. A senator said about his samskipti við David Cameron and then what the truth is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u332	Mr. President. I'll admit I was a bit optimistic when I heard that I was at the top. A minister was going to be here with us today, but that optimism is not valid. I'm going to try to present some direct questions in order to avoid outbacks. The first question is: Has a minister studied the Eyolf's description of a Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson on the third energy package? His comments on page 18 - 21 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 2, with President's permission: Therefore, it would have been expected to introduce the correct national commitment to Iceland's key natural resource by a Regulation but to review later - if a cable is to be laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and also to consider whether the induction conforms to the Iceland Constitution. Obviously, the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights and if it conforms to a constitution. True or false? It also states: In the common sense of the EU foreign minister and energy manager, Iceland's uniqueness with the isolated distribution system of electricity, a large part of the third energy package is of no value nor practical significance to the region. It says: As regards the induction of the third energy package in Iceland, the situation in Iceland is quite different from that in countries where energy networks cross borders. Therefore, the specific setting for Iceland, as agreed by the European Commission, is the best option for the Icelandic environment, avoiding all unnecessary burden. I ask you, what special agreement for Iceland approved by the European Commission is best for the Icelandic setting? More questions next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u333	A respectable president. This is not one of the scholars we were looking for. I don't know about that -- I just want to say it so that those who are generally considered our major experts were consulted when it comes to EEA rights. It wasn't only Stefánsson Borschsson and Friðrik Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst, but it was also Skúli Magnússon and Davíð Þór Björgvinsson. Hv. A senator asks if I have studied and know the point of the lawyer's viewpoint. A senator referred to, but when we build our decisions and plan what we want to do, we refer to this person whom everyone knows who he is. Why? Because they are thought to be the best in their field. I have to admit, I don't quite realize what's wrong. A senator is going somewhere other than laying the conclusion of this lawyer. But I think it's always a good rule to bring in the most skilled experts, and I don't think anyone would doubt that the members I listed and others as the highest. In this respect, the Minister of Industrial Affairs also called in, even though others might be called. I don't remember this person in that group. All the things presented and laid aside have been discussed in my speech and have continued to review the discussion. Of course, this can be continued. But it doesn't change the outcome. The answer to that question is: This lawyer was not consulted. And I think most people, if not all who know the language, would agree that the members who were called are among our most qualified scholars in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u334	Mr. President. I didn't ask about this. I asked if the highest. A minister would have studied this document, which is a review given to the State Department in the treatment of the matter. A minister called panic propaganda, which has been fired. Where? How? It says on page 18. 3, with the permission of the President in the opinion of this attorney I stated: To introduce national rules that do not apply in Iceland leads to legal uncertainty and conflict with the nation's interests. True or false? ▪ If you become the body of Congress approved, you are not meeting the national rights commitment to take three EU types of electricity and the cooperation of the Agency into national rights, such as Article 7. The EEA Convention. Only governments are authorized to accept it. Consuming is not a law nor a government authority for the regulation. If the induction of the EU is to be delayed for an indefinite period of time, it must be made clear in the Parliamentary arrangement, unfortunately not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Induction delay is not the induction of national rights commitment. True or false?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u335	A respectable president. The first question was, What panic propaganda has been going on? I think it's safe to say as it is to say that we are somehow losing control of our resources when we speak of a rise in energy prices and so forth. It's a panic attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u336	You're right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u337	This is panic propaganda and has no support for...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u338	No, you're right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u339	A respectable president. I thought these people had some chance to talk here, but they obviously haven't had enough and keep calling in and all in good with it. A respectable president. What is fundamental yet again - I'm not going to follow, but I'm not going to follow this lawyer's opinion. A senator refers to him. I've been over this exactly. I can't read in the remaining seconds, for example. The theory of the experts, which I believe is something that everyone should read, because that is exactly what it is. A senator is asking. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u340	Didn't ask that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u341	This is the basis for the decision. [[The president calls.]] Here's a review of the discussion, it is exactly the same now as in the previous discussion, and it corrects everything that has happened here on the part of the member of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u342	Mr. President. I must admit that after a talk, I am amazed. Secretary of state. First of all, he's going to pick up some loopholes here on Norwegian cash in front of us who've been talking about this recently. He's got to explain why he's taking this up here with us and he's got some pimps here. Second place is the highest. Minister of empty hands here to the many questions we asked him in the talks he heard earlier. V.E.G. A minister must explain why he calls his viewpoints legal advisers, Friðrik of the Árni and Stefán Már, conservative. It seems to me that they are most cautious and cautious. At the same time, they go beyond merely evaluating in the narrowest legal sense a possible conflict with a constitution. Rather, they deal with the consequences of the implementation of these types, this third energy package. Their conclusion is what I traced here, that by the induction, foreign people will at least is receiving an indirect influence on national planning, use and distribution of energy resources. Did I hear correctly, Mr. President, is his warning to search the House Board of Parliaments? V.E.G. A minister does not have a very loud row, so I can quite accept that I did not hear everything as the highest. Minister left by mouth. But is he there? And as a result, where is the hard - hitting legal opinion for this warning? That's not enough, chief. Minister, to refer to some letter outside the evidence, I must allow myself to say and reiterate it, and was sorry to the top. A minister should not state the issue of his previous siege. ... aboutthiscase. [[The president calls.]] I'll ask you more questions in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u343	A respectable president. I just didn't realize it, obviously I've talked very low because of it. A senator has not heard anything I said. You know, about maintenance. I only use the words of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson himself. He uses this expression. True, I don't think it's about him. Hv. A senator seems to disagree greatly with Stefán Motá.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u344	You can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u345	- Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson says it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u346	Not me. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u347	- But Ólafur... I'm sorry, they're just the same, they're both beards in the middle class. [[The point is, that's cool. ...]] - A beard, maybe. [[Up front.]] But I got it. A senator to read the opinion of the group or the trial of experts because of the third energy package, the Friðrik Már Quofsson and Friðrik Árni of Friðrik Friðriksson of Hirst.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u348	Do I have to sit under this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u349	- Hv. A senator calls, "Do I have to sit here? " A respectable president. Hv. As was done during the first discussion, a senator regularly referred to these scholars. They come here to correct the misunderstanding. A senator and others have promoted it. And what? A senator said: "Do I have to sit under this? [[The point is, why...?]] Do I have to sit under this? He actually says that the letter presented, not just to members of the council, but to all the people, is beyond this issue. But, hey. Senator, if he's going to...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u350	Outside of the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u351	A respectable president. Why are these men always interrupting? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u352	Please give peace to a speaker in order to finish his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u353	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u354	A respectable president. The brief version is this. In case of a moment. A senator does not want to read all their opinions, as they clearly state, that this is their suggestion, a respectable president. Regarding the northern pimps, it is quite known that they have tried to influence this case directly, including the U.S.A. by coming here and speaking to meetings and by various other means. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That has even been true. published in most Icelandic media, at least many of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u355	Mr. President. It's hard to defend myself from calling in, and I pray that it will be well-respected, but in the end. Ministers streaming in such excrements that, in fact, testify, are hard to stop. I'm going to reiterate my question: Set the top. Ministers equalizing letters to Ministers and a thorough legal opinion on the effects of the legal advance? We need to know what conclusion they presented in their letter. There must be a thorough legal opinion and analysis. What effect does the legal defense have on a possible conflict with a constitution? What effect does the legal protection have on the consequences of the induction of the third energy package, which they say should include at least The indirect influence of foreign parties on the organization, provision and use of Icelandic energy resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u356	A respectable president. They've come up with a strategists, they've got a lot of serious opinions. Some in the discussion, including Yeah. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izz remnant interprets it out and south. Then they'll bring you an appeal. A respectable president. Reading this is not a pity for anyone. I read it earlier, and it's just that it's impossible that I've talked so low to the point. A senator hasn't heard it. [[Up front.]] And if not, I can give it to him. But it's also on the Internet, and everyone can see it. That's exactly where all the factors go. A senator keeps asking about. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Hv. The senator must only read this more than an A4 sheet, he must only do so, before he continues in this matter as he has so far done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u357	It's all business, chief. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u358	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for speaking here and hoping that there will be others below, where he will answer questions. I made two offers, and I was so unfortunate that I didn't get the answer to either one, but I might succeed in another experiment. I didn't have to worry about all the questions my partner had, but given the fact that I had no answer to either one of the questions, I assume that there is something in the notes that came up in the papers as to whether the Minister wasn't going to answer any of the questions asked to him. What I would like to do in addition to what I came into my speech earlier, there are factors that may turn. that the analysis of the status, how it will change for national members after the end of a translucency cable. As former minister of the Independence Party, Sturla Böðvarsson, it was not long ago in a newspaper paper, it is not entirely important to have access to a decision to fix a cord, which will no doubt be laid at some point, if at the same time the power market is lost. There is an unannounced situation that is not offered for visual analysis. Even one such, well - equipped, lies in place, could at all possibly reason things out. We members of the Parliament are invited to make sure that this alleged advance notice regarding the condition of the Generals to connect when it comes, but no discussion can take place on the basis of the analysis of the circumstances. This is the thing I've tried to highlight in my talks in so far, trying to ask the question, "And then what? It is in the context that we try to figure out what situation awaits us after a cable has been laid. I agree with the position of the former minister of the Independence Party, Sturla Böðvarsson, that it is the core of this matter, all of it, to have a preliminary analysis of what will be involved in the end of a connection. So I ask the highest. Minister: Why is there no forward-screen analysis regarding how the whole environment will look to the comments that have been discussed on what will happen? In addition to this, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether he's not worried about it, is that any of the concerns that we in the Central Party have brought up in real life, that the pressure on the EEA deal is increasing because of that? Now my expectations are reduced rapidly in terms of getting the answer to my inquiries, but the highest. The minister is off the phone. Then I'm going to repeat the question about the EEA deal. It has been claimed that the deliberation of our skeptics is undermined by the EEA Treaty. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not concerned about becoming the situation that some of our central platoon concerns are going to become more real, it will put a special pressure on the EEA contract after a connection has developed by fixing the sea cable. I'd like to reiterate my question from earlier. It was not the answer to the question to say that it would be so good to finish the matter now because it would prove that it was all nonsense that the middle tribe was saying. That's not an acceptable argument. I asked the highest. The minister who would be our personal contact would be to whom we are confronted. For a word at the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís's Kol Reykfjörð The Smokeding Gylfadóttir, therefore, did not seem to be too much for us to delay the case, at least Until the fall of 2019. The time has passed, so I hope that there will be an opportunity for me to give a second talk before I can speak at the top. Minister has to leave the area. [[The president calls.]] But at least I'd like to make this point with the staging analysis. Why is such an invitation not offered? Then about the EEA contract and the pressure that may develop, our middle-class worry becomes more real, and then I reiterate the time pressure that seems to be put into now, why it is. [[The president calls.]] That it is to emphasize the folly of the media class is not an acceptable response. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u359	A respectable president. There was a word out there. A member of the council said that the Middle Class was stupid. I didn't use that word and I haven't used it in this discussion, just to be perfectly clear. Of course, no language has ever been prepared as well as this, nothing like that, so in the course of difficulty. A senator speaks of stage photos, and something like that has gone through it, as I went through. I was absolutely commending that particular scholar, Stefán the Árni of Stefánsson, who said he was conservative when the command came. Stefán's Már Friðrik and Friurik of the Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst were suggested in the implementation of this introduction. I'm not worried if we finish this case that it's gonna undermine the EEA deal, not a few. But I'm worried about that, and that's why I referred to these Norwegian people, that they're being undermined by the EEA deal, including discuss this matter. And just about the cable, it's quite clear that we decide. If this case is to be carried out, as suggested, special attention should be given to the executive part if the Allied Council decides to go into the sea cable, which I do not recommend. I see no reason to postpone the case just to postpone it. I insist that there were no induction languages as deep and as extensive a discussion that included as many scholars and as much as as working at the head. Parliamentary committees, especially now. Foreign Affairs and what. Work committees, but also those committees that discussed this matter before. There's nothing we can do to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u360	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Even if I am, as if I need not be surprised, some of the answers are surprising. I'd like to do this in a little less than the highest. A minister of my inquiry is turned to the points of Icelandic households for the benefit of the induction because of the core issues in support of argument. The chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee was the increased freedom to switch nuclear energy dealers. Of course, that change had long since come, and it was followed by a change in energy law 2003, if I remember correctly. What remains? This was not included in the Sermon on the Mount or in the reply of the minister: What is the second benefit to domestic households? Since the main issue of reasoning seems to have been based on several misunderstandings, even though I do not question whether it is positive that a person can choose a nuclear power dealer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u361	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for what was presented here and the question, although it is usually so that opposers ask the speakers. But I'm sure it's time to take advantage of this opportunity. I'm glad to hear the point. A senator says he wants us to get a shot at an electrician. I'm very happy to hear that. That's where we're at. A senator agrees. I think the question should really be why the competition is not greater than it really is. It is present and will have been reduced according to the two parties assessment. The electricity trade factor has fallen, but because we have carried out constructions and other factors have increased the transport factor. I think that's the best way, that we get to choose. That's my sincere opinion. Hv. A senator asks about consumer security, but this extra autonomy is the Power Management Agency. That's what it's all about. These factors are being followed by a greater source of electronic surveillance than they now have and monitored. We have faith in, at least in other matters, that it has increased consumer protection. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A senator came to the heart of the matter, that perhaps we should discuss these matters more. There are many things in this discussion that I have felt have called for us to discuss more, although it is not directly related to the energy package in many cases. In this regard, I think the question should be, " How can we encourage further competition in this regard? ' It is a goal in itself that competition is as active as possible. And even if some people say that we are so limited in society that they will never be completely competitive, they do not have to be small enough to allow competition to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u362	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I must admit that with the emphasis on consumer protection and the improved position of consumers in the history of the State Department leaders and the rich emphasis laid on the points of the first few hours of the discussion, while some of the supporters of the case remained on the scene, this is a very modest recovery if the kind of thing that is possible for the sake of the country's home is strengthened. Because all the evidence is yet to come up with an increase in the monitoring rate. So all that is available is an increase in the cost of home living. The other is, and it's the same about public projects, I know that the highest. A minister agrees with me that it is more on the point of calming about the spending part of savings than the actual recovery when it comes to the alleged savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u363	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm amazed at it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will begin his speech when he arrives and will finally have a conversation with us with this discussion of the European Union's energy directive to have speculation on the effects of foreign parties on the topic of the discussion in this country. I'm amazed at this kind of statement. Minister and I don't think seagulls at all. Minister to have these speculations. That these people have propaganda in this country to frighten the United States is something I've never heard before. Ministers dare to introduce themselves to a public speaker and say so. Where have these people been, top dog? Minister? I was going to discuss a little more on this legal advance. I heard the highest. Ministers are to point out that this warning is included in the Commission's list of objects and that it involves a plan for the Council of Ministers to be signed, if I have understood the Supreme Minister's Regulation. Minister right. I have to admit that he was a little calmer, but I think I understand correctly that the warning was in the publication of this expected Regulation. Secretary of the trade in the Iceland government. I've received specifications to this Regulation in Article 3. is shown by permission of the President: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009 with regard to electrical connections between countries not being carried out in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Is this, Mr. President, the legal court? Under Regulation? Which, in fact, was one of the possibilities I had wondered about, that he was there to find. If that's true, the minister will correct me if it's not true, if it's the legal premise on which the case was based - it was based on legal advance, the highest. Ministers - I would just like to point out that the regulations of the Iceland Board of Directors published by individual advisers, published almost every day and discussed a variety of cases, the others and these minor cases, the implementation of a wide range of legal regulations, are not just less than just a law given by the International Assembly of Iceland. This Regulation is born within the councils, transferred to the secretary's desk where he signs it and publishes it. That's the Regulation. And what do I read on the legal notice? This represents the purpose of the Council of Europe's Regulation, 100 million members of a community, which publishes laws in the form of EU Regulation - that is called a Regulation, but is of far greater importance than local regulations - is not being carried out. The plan is to Regulation, issue by the European Commission, eliminate the regulations adopted in Icelandic rights by the approval of this Council decision that we are dealing with here. To argue that this Regulation is changing something is the highest degree of extreme visibility, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u364	A respectable president. It's a big surprise if it is. A senator has not seen the Norwegians of the Norwegian Middle East and no to EU. I'm gonna read one of them, it's been published in the media, they've been in meetings, including. in world vision and elsewhere, discussing these matters. I'm going to refer to Kathrine Kleveland, chairman of the EU, in an interview with the Norwegian press. It says, by permission of the president: It's no secret that we've contacted our local sisters in this case. To become part of the EU energy policy is a great opposition to the public. This is no secret to the Norwegians, because everyone can look it up as they please. It's no big deal. You can only go to the Internet itself and gulp both interviews and advertisements, where these parties present their views and do nothing to hide that they are trying to influence the discussion in Iceland. Nothing to hide, as indicated in these comments. It's just a matter of time. A senator would have such interpretations if he wanted to. But there is the possibility that they will be members of a respectable president, as a matter of course. The members of the Central Party have witnessed especially in the scholarly group to this point, e.g. ... inhisreservation. I encourage everyone. The members of the Central Party to examine the opinion of the members from all of StefánssonMár Motorsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst - all - as well as their appeal for the discussion of the third energy pack. Then they even point. In the advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u365	Mr. President. No, I haven't seen these Norses as the highest. Secretary of state is so scared of it. At least I haven't seen anyone I have any fear of, not at all. I have not seen them, nor heard them, nor met them, at all. To say that the Norwegian Middle East has some special power in the United States is something I don't know at all and that I want to ask it at the highest. Minister to explain further to you whether it is. It's kind of funny. With the Regulation I know at least that, no matter how good it is and have a good purpose, in a Regulation as supreme. Secretary of the European Commission has appointed, weigh nothing in relation to EU regulations that have a legal value in the European Union. They don't weigh anything. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this the legal court? Is this what was presented here by drumming, that it would be safe to implement the European Union's legal energy directive? Is this really the legal one? We've had a lot of answers, there's a lot of answers on where to find this legal warning, and if the highest. A minister has finally informed us that he is there, I say: The mountain has taken on sobriety and was born a small mouse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u366	A respectable president. I don't know how. A senator concluded that someone was afraid of the Norwegian Central Party or no to EU. Hv. A senator claimed that these parties had tried to influence in Icelandic discussion, and I refuted it. True, I don't understand how things have gone unnoticed. Senator. I'm not afraid of a single Norwegian, not even the Norwegian Middle East. On the other hand, I insist they're not thinking about Icelandic interests when they do this in Iceland. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. There is something else. What lies ahead is the opposition to the EEA agreement. That one. Senators or these Norwegians, they are not all members of Congress, though there are some, are not interested in Icelandic interests. They will not come here to our next discussion, thinking: Now we need to help our friends of Iceland because we worry about where they are going. It's not like that at all. I must point out that they are trying to get involved in Icelandic politics. I don't know how many times to enter this advance, a respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator will not be convinced, no matter how it will be reviewed. The big thing is this too, which is the basis for the matter: We decide, and no one else is willing to lay a cable. It is the General Assembly of the Icelanders who will decide it. That's basic. That's basic. But if we turn a cable to the European Union, we need to look at this aspect of the matter, the administrative part of the matter again, which I believe is very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u367	Mr. President. All talking about the Norwegians is letting go, we're talking to the media groups for Icelandic interests first and we think we're defending Icelandic interests, as we've been doing in many of our recent talks. As for this legal exercise, I have discussed this case on the basis that when the European Parliament agrees with this synonym and promises to implement the third EU energy directive, we are required to alter the laws in accordance with the requirements and directives of the European Union, which are behind this energy directive. Right at the end, I'm going to say that it's odd, Mr President, in view of all the fine understanding that European authorities and the EFTA officials have shown that Iceland's special status and that has been repeatedly named in the Council's symposium by the Board of Directors, if this understanding is so great, why don't you go looking for the only exception in this case which is going into the common EEA committee, and therefore look to the exception of regulations that are to be carried out or planned to interfere with the Icelandic constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u368	Honorable and chivalrous president. It's so good to see the top. The president, so if there's any man who can control the highest level of control. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I guess it's the president who's now seated. And it's not as good as going to the highest degree. Minister until now. We had waited a long time for answers from the minister, and when he was finally found and could then answer no questions, it seems, in fact, that he did not observe the discussion, referred to the Ministry's Web site, said that there was an answer to everything we were discussing, and added to an empty disturbance. In view of the highest. The minister could not take an answer, so let me reiterate some of the points I mentioned earlier, hoping that the minister would rely on him to answer them in reply to me. The Minister's Norwegian conspiracy theory was restored here. It is estimated that what we are doing in the Middle East, his own party members, most of the Independence Party, supporters of the Agency, the left movement, the Icelandic labor movement in Iceland, and a great deal more of the public are concerned, if all part of some Norwegian conspiracy, men are running away from Norway. In view of this particular Norway of the highest degree. A minister asked him about it, and now reiterate the question, if he had examined the warning of the Norwegian Council at the introduction of the third energy package there? As in the country, very many of the people from many different categories were deeply concerned about the induction of the third energy package and the Norwegian labor movement, and much of the Norwegian people were so concerned. This was managed by having eight - sided warnings to be legalized. First, why didn't the Icelandic government give such a warning? Second, despite the fact that the nobles of the North were far more clear and clear than the alleged French government officials have ever been with them. In view of that, why on earth does it seem to be the highest. Minister for any use in this Icelandic advance? V.E.G. The minister spoke a great deal about a letter that his Ministry called for a trial, believed he needed, in the opinion of a variety of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and the Friðrik of Frildurk son of Hirst. But the highest. A minister slipped past the main content of that letter and overlooked the fact that on the same day the minister published the letter, Friðrik The Árni of Friðriksson Hirst that the method was not flawless and with risk. And in fact, they declared to the State Radio that they were not so able to offer anything and were not responsible for the minister's approach. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, these good scholars said that there is a prerequisite for a government or a higher authority. The minister could pass a constitution - this would be a good idea to mean just one of the marked smells of the matter - the warning would be that the induction would not be valid, i.e. It would have to be in a way that the induction would not be effective until perhaps something happened. This is not the ultimate way. Minister's leaving. He's going to be fully introduced, but he's going to have some comments made in advance. When many so - called scholars were asked if they had seen the warning, they had not. The letter as the highest. A minister may, in his best interests, be interpreted as a prerequisite value to a constitution - and again - that is just a critical aspect of the matter - then they need to be the nature of the induction. In fact, there was so much in a talk of the highest order. A minister with good reason to ask him out in the cause he just moved his old programme. I don't have time to finish it here, but I hope there's some answers from the Minister after this first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u369	A respectable president. I don't like to be a publisher of ghouls, but I'm afraid the minister has disappeared from the scene, so I don't have to expect any more answers than those who have already been placed on the table and outcasts and the storyliness of the penitent Norwegians. So much for the voyage then. But I kind of want to ask you what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and thank him for his speech, whether he remembers as poor the answers of ministers to inquire of this time as the highest degree. Secretary of state stopped here with us. I asked him probably five questions, and later I was able to answer one. It seemed similar to me that others asked him questions in this room, although I did not fully care for them. But in terms of the return of my own questions, they were not remarkable. But remember. Davíð After Gunnlaugsson a professional minister who comes to a special visit to discuss matters and answers questions, does the claim that the answers were as poor as what we saw correctly?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u370	Mr. President. I suppose the highest. The President is as surprised as I am at the highest level of elimination. Secretary of state. I don't know if it's the highest. Mr President misses the Minister, but at least I do. miss him in the sense that I would have wanted some answers to the many indications that we have discussed here today, and not just today, but the past few days and nights, the matter has been developing, new things becoming increasingly evident. But then you came to the highest level. Minister, no answer. Well, well. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason believes that he may have answered one question, but he answered virtually nothing, but he showed an empty report and then returned immediately. So I'll answer a question. Senator: I don't recall anything like this, not in such a big case, that when a minister is finally found and obtained to attend the council, he should simply transport his old programme, which, in large measure, goes out trying to teach everyone else that he is currently introducing this third pack of energy, i.e. because I've met David Cameron four years ago, or that it's because some Norwegians are in every corner deceiving the Icelanders, but arguing in no way beyond just saying that the answers to everything are on the board's website. This is surprising, Mr. President, and not just that, this must be to cause us to get even more worried about the points we've been trying to point out over the past few days and nights, and not get any answers, since we don't allow management teams to come in the public chair to answer such as one question. So this visit, it's the highest. A minister is primarily designed to promote our anxiety and, in fact, to confirm it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u371	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson answered. I just want to come in to that one answer I got out of the top. A foreign minister in some area, which was involved in the interests of domestic households from the induction of the third energy package, because this has been a great deal of the fact that significant interests are in the home, home may reduce the energy bill by up to 2,500 dollars. per month by changing energy sales. It was then revealed that there has been a long switch in energy sales, and it was all based on some misunderstanding that this was the major interest issue for domestic households in this induction. Then came the minister's answer to a final experiment, which I had become a bad one about returning something. But he did answer to that, the highest. The minister, to the interests of the households in this induction, returned to the stronger position of the Power Institute. The monitoring role of the Energy Agency should be supported and therefore the humble interest of national households. The only thing I've seen from the evidence that is guaranteed in this regard is an increase in monitoring costs, so the spending share of these changes to Icelandic households is secure. But in view of these small claims for the improved interest of domestic households, the whole package, according to the minister's response, is how to manage it. paritaprevir Sigmur Davíð Gunnlaugsson? Does he believe that those interests that have been identified in other aspects are of a similar proportion when under pressure, that the answer to the question, What is this for us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u372	Mr. President. Of course, you are afraid that this is a reflection of the whole subject when the few of the answers are answered, perhaps the only answer that has been made to encourage our anxiety rather than reduce them. But in the context of that as a reason. A senator asked for my special attention when I was at the highest level. A minister noted that it was totally in our power to subsidize the cost of house warming, the cost of house - to - house energy. I couldn't understand the minister's highest level in a way that would be to admit that the rates of energy could be caused by the energy package, but that would be the only option for humans to reimburse energy. However, I doubt that the public in Iceland would rely on continuing energy prices, as it has done with previous electrical directives, the government will be enforcing the third energy package to supply energy for house warming. But then there's the other question too, it's totally unsettled in this regard: What about other energy? What about the energy that humans use in their homes, which still have a heating system but obviously have to use electricity as well? I'm going to the top. Minister to cover that electrical cost? No, I guess not, but he couldn't, according to the rule. A decision could not be made to specifically subsidize electricity in Iceland to achieve the price. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u373	Mr. President. I think I'm compelled to come up here and say I'm amazed that I'm very surprised. The minister of foreign affairs is to be dismissed from the council hall without answering the questions asked him, important questions. That's at least Three questions I asked the highest. Minister he didn't answer. It's just an unacceptable job, Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister leaves the hall and runs away. This must be because they have a bad side to defend. It's simple. One of the big and important questions I asked him about the introduction of Regulation 72/2009 that it is prohibited from building electricity to house heating: this is now in the current energy package to be introduced here. He answers that this will not be a reality. How can he say so? He's got to explain his point more. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. It is unacceptable that a minister can only run from house to house with no complete answer to what was laid before him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u374	V.E.G. President. I say, as I mentioned earlier, that no senator, and certainly none of the presidents of the Generals, have as good a chance as the man who sits before him to recover the highest. Secretary of state. V.E.G. The president knows his song so much, and it's over slowly. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A president to use himself to the highest degree. The minister will return and answer at least A few questions. True, there are many who have woke up. But it must be our claim, General - I'm not just talking about us members of the Central Party - in the light of how the discussion has developed and all that has been revealed, to the highest level. A minister who puts it into practice explains it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u375	V.E.G. President. I have to say it as my opinion on this matter, to come to the highest level. Secretary of state here was a total waste of time. He wasted his time and ours. Of course, it would be good if someone could communicate with the highest degree of communication. Secretary of State and get him to come here to try to answer some of the points directly to him. We weren't calling for a minister here to tell us some crazy stories about the Norwegians. And we know that Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson met David Cameron once. We know that. But does it have anything to do with today's affairs, Mr. President? Really? Does it have anything to do with what we're talking about here today? I don't think so. So I'm amazed to say that this behavior is surprising. It will be better expressed in a talk I will hold in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u376	Mr. President. I see the Minister of Foreign Affairs is here to celebrate, of course. I can't believe it's the highest. Secretary of State has decided to abandon us. But there's obviously some misunderstanding, so I'd like to come in for a talk afterwards, asking for more answers to the questions I asked a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u377	Mr. President. After the Supreme Court performance. The minister of the first half is no longer so surprised at what the Senate case of the third energy package is incredibly poor and badly built. I'm not gonna say that I was disappointed because it was kind of shallow this year. To be honest, I was amazed that the Minister would come here for a game with nothing in it, nothing. Unless, like I say, some adventures about the Norwegians who come home and may be influential in the minister's life, at least they're not influential in my life. And then to inform us that Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson once met David Cameron, who was well - known to me. On the other hand, it is at the highest. A minister demeaned the resignation of a lawyer named Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson. I'm guessing an Eyjólfur Ármannsson is watching this broadcast. Then he has received it directly into the vein to the highest level. The minister waslittled him academic. In itself, it came to the highest. Ministers to a game like a family horse had been finished in the past, with a card in front of both eyes so that they could only see right ahead of themselves. I was going to ask the highest. Minister of Questions. I'm going to quote Halla and Laddi from the song Roy Rogers and ask Minister: What are you doing here? It's not clear to me at all. A minister comes in here with something like this, what do I say? I'd like to use the English language, Mr. President. I know the President doesn't like that. Brings me a smidge of superiority and shit. I was disappointed because I thought that if a minister came here, we might be more likely to settle the matter that is now properly handled over the council because of our respect for the duration of the council. It has already been observed that the discussion of this matter has not disturbed the program of the council to the point that it has not been held at regular meetings so that we have not been getting in the way of anyone. But this is what worries me, Mr. President, because this attitude and policy, so I'm polite, chief. A minister tells me that this matter is to be consigned through the council, as we have been discussing here the past few days and nights. It is to be consigned in spite of the opposition of more than 60% of the population, despite its opposition to the Common Union, individual labor leaders, garden farmers, bakers, and Human Rights Association. This case is to be cursed, no matter what. Mr. President. It has to happen that this case will be resolved in another round for a while. I don't see anything else in this situation, I'm sorry. I had certainly imagined that the minister's visit could lead to an explanation, an increase in understanding, but not far from it. The minister, in fact, put on his underwear in this sort of business. He had no answers, none. I don't know if that's because he hasn't really studied this case himself. Now I'm going to go back to one of the highest. While he was here, the minister lived. He strongly counseled people to read the entire series of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, og Friðrik Hirst. [[The president calls.]] It's like people haven't done it yet. On the other hand, before he continues to downplay his scholarship, I would advise a minister to read the umsögn of the Aeglei's annual son. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u378	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u379	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker joins him in saying that this event will be the ultimate event. The minister of foreign affairs, who finally became a reality today after repeated requests by the Middle Class, was very special. V.E.G. A minister may belittle a course. Allied councilmen, and here they go, to a doctor for economics and wrangles. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson has not read himself well enough. Mr. President. It's just an unannounced statement. It's only part of some speech conference practice at Valhalla. You don't understand the highest part. A minister should make such a statement when we have discussed the matter in detail for days, discussing it here until late the night, and in the morning. Mr. President has not been very concerned with the European Union's labour laws and directives when it comes to work hours. This is where the case goes on and on and on and on and on. But when it comes to bringing in this directive, the EU rules and regulations need to be followed by the European Union. I just wanted to get it into this matter and ask if it's all right. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson remembered that a minister was aslittle to members of the council as he did here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u380	V.E.G. President. I quickly recall one minister who has been treated similarly. It is part of this group of unions in the government, the VG and the Independence Party, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ministers of health, who often brings the hippopotamus and presumptuousness. It kind of reminded me of it. I say again: I don't remember a minister who came to this room, a minister who I thought had the goal of providing information and clarifying his point, as poorly as this noble Supreme Court. Minister who's back in the room. I don't know if this is going to change in the second half. I hope so. But so far, we've got the highest input. A minister at our meeting with him was marked by unscrupulous insults and temple murder. As I mentioned earlier in my talk, this meeting that I thought might be a means of sharpening people's understanding, not to speed up this matter through this council. It's quite daylight, I'm afraid. For it is urgent that the matter of this magnitude, a matter of this content, be settled from the Allied Parliament of Iceland in political alliances, in agreement with the nation, which is more opposed to this matter as it is now, in agreement with the common groups that are opposed to this matter, in agreement with officers who are opposed to this matter. [[The president calls.]] After this meeting, I am not optimistic about its success. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u381	Mr. President. Yes, I accept it with my heart, with my peace as with my soul. A senator rightly mentioned that. It is the basis for sharing this matter - which is controversial, especially in view of its history, a pack of energy and a pack of energy, which had a significant impact on the interests of the public. This is especially why governments must act, seeking reconciliation with the council, the nation, and the people involved, the businesses of the country. Energy packages one and two were the market areas here in the country, but they are now to cross the cliffs and enter this large area. It is clear that the three energy package, which includes this common market area, will undoubtedly have a larger and greater effect than a pack of energy, one and two. I agree with what. When a senator speaks specifically of the labor movement, he spoke of it. The government must be serious and must take serious reviews, such as from the European Union of Iceland, U.S.R., and other union groups. Another would be a mistake on the part of the government, especially in view of the fact that there is now a suggestion that the biographer contract could be dismissed. The government doesn't want to see it happen. So I'll agree with it with what. Senator. It's got to be settled on this big case. This is a case that affects the entire nation, our future as a nation, the nation's resources, their habitats, and their quality of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u382	Mr. President. Maybe I'm supposed to respect the highest. To the extent that he has been abroad during this discussion, the minister has known that he has been a member of the country. He may have received some accounts of the discussion after miscredulous journalists who have considered our discussion of this matter to be some sort of escape and confusion. People think we, the middle-class people, have stood here all night and day out of it. That's a misunderstanding. I don't remember at my time at the Council that I've had the same reaction to anything I've participated in doing here at the General Assembly. The greeting, the encouragement, that people are on the streets for 24 hours. I don't remember that kind of stuff before. It shows how important this matter is, how important it is to many, how many people are affected. It is not to be taken lightly and to run such a case, even if they have the power to do so through the council in a way that has been tested. True, it's been delayed a bit, but I don't see that something is knocked off. They just act like they're running through a scrap, they just back away and come back. This case is to be run through that way. That's too bad. In this case, in the way that it has been prepared now, there will be a greater dissatisfaction in this country with the EEA deal itself. That's not what anyone wants. [[The president calls.]] That is not what we want to be standing here night and day in an effort to expand this matter and make it more understandable. Then a minister comes with this message.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u383	Mr. President. I have to repeat what I said earlier today, I'm just amazed at going forward. Minister here today. I had strong hopes that there could be a conversation here that could bring people closer to one another and grow understanding and solidarity but that could go to the top. A minister had no such qualities. V.E.G. A minister has a case of innuendo, immodest debates about the fact that some people here are acting in the strength of Norwegian money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u384	Who says so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u385	A minister needs only to remember his own words. Norwegian money, Norwegian Central Party, no to EU, at least it is essential to the highest level. A minister explains his words and why he is recording them at the beginning of his talk here. V.E.G. A minister stands in a situation where he is promoting fundamental changes in the foreign policy of the country, as can be read in the comments of Jón Baldvin son of Hannibalsson, discussing that there is a means to negotiate a mutual access to a market but that it is not to be considered to be an option for access to the market to resources. That's not an option, but it's the highest. A minister is using himself here. He must explain it as soon as he explains where he has a democratic authority to represent this change and to represent the induction of this energy package. This matter was not mentioned in the leading of the election. V.E.G. Ministers know of the natural agreements that have been performed at the scene of the union of the Independence Party that seem to cross the way he is preaching here. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to get counseling so that he can better understand the difference between a news release that may be one page or one and a half and a more thorough legal opinion where what is said is logical, subversive, and explained. There's a difference between a press release and a more thorough legal opinion. V.E.G. A minister may amuse himself by arguing that human data has not been read. I was very sorry to witness at the height. A minister walked about the truth in such a way as to avoid the truth in the past. When he claimed, in answer to a question from me, that this letter or a news release, whether now, was part of the evidence. V.E.G. A minister must also seek advice on what is the evidence. He will get the answers that there is a suggestion and the accompanying documents. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Mr. President. There are serious questions in this case. V.E.G. A minister has the opinion of the most skilled of men whose conclusions include: By bringing in this energy package, foreign workers will receive at least An indirect effect, as it is said, on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. It's right there. He must explain his course more fully, and he must explain this warning better. Did I really hear the court saying that the Court is in the majority of members of the Parliament's Committee, the expected employment committee, or foreign committee? I don't know about this. [[The president calls.]] He says there's no need to postpone it. We've traced it here to a minister that many questions remain to be answered and that this matter cannot be approved. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're late.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u386	A respectable president. Talk about being free with the truth. I didn't say Norwegian money. I mentioned the Norwegian party. In case of a moment. A senator would listen to what goes on here, and he would have heard it when I read a report from the Norwegian media, where an executive no to EU review of his contact with Icelandic parties. If he doesn't believe it, he can also examine what these parties have done because it has been in the Icelandic media, no one has missed it. And I say again, these people aren't thinking about Icelandic interests. And to talk about some fundamental change in Icelandic foreign policy. It doesn't make any sense. It is impossible that a person who has studied a subject might come to that conclusion. Here we go. A senator who calls it a news release, a benefit that was sent to all members of the council, where the scribes were correcting the misunderstanding during the discussion, was exactly the same today. I'm gonna, with President's permission, get permission to read it again, for whatever. A senator didn't think I was loud enough. I'm going to ask for the word to read it again. [[Up front.]] There is absolutely nothing to discuss that we are accessing resources. It's such a long, long, long road away. I see no alternative but to reread the trial that came from the scholars here referred to and interpreted, after the discussion at the council. There they explain their viewpoint. I would like to ask a respectable president to find out so that he can read it again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u387	V.E.G. A minister can read it in his second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u388	Mr. President. I just got a short time. I'm the highest. A minister to answer to who they are in the country he believes is going on the Norwegian Party and no to EU and also that he will explain why he takes it at the General Assembly for discussion on this matter. Number two, I'd like to say to the top. Minister that it stands in the opinion of his own legal advisers, whom he himself called upon to operate, that the induction of this energy package, in particular Regulation 713/2009, will result in the fact that foreign institutions will receive at least, as it is said - this is word for word. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister - ◯a.k. The indirect influence of the nation's organization, plans and use of its very important sources of energy. This is in the opinion of a legal adviser of foreign ministers. These big questions remain unsettled. Why is it the highest? Minister to promote a fundamental change in foreign policy where access to resources should be replaced by access to markets, instead of a mutual market agreement? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Similarly, a minister has to explain why he is applying himself here on a case that will have the consequences of his own legal adviser's actions in his opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u389	A respectable president. Now I'm surprised. A senator to listen to. First because of the Norwegians, the Norwegian Middle Class, and no to EU. I said, "They've been using themselves in this matter to influence the results. " It's clear to everyone what they want to know that it's been going on and has not been any secret until now. And I say, these people are not taking care of the Icelandic people. Hv. A senator refers to the scholars Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, i.e. his interpretation of their opinion. [[Up front.]] And now I'm surprised. A senator - yes, an interpreter - to listen. I'm gonna talk pretty loud because of what I'm talking about. A senator may feel that he does not hear well, and that, of course, is not good. [[Up front.]] It's sent, a respectable president, after a previous siege. I'm going to read what is presented here, both the entrance and the letter of these scholars: Last night at the General Assembly of the First Conference on Foreign Minister's Reconsistencies on Confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 93/2017 of change in IV. Annex (Power) to the EEA Convention. With the Parliamentary decree, the Allied Council allows to lift a administrative notice to the decision made by the Joint EEA on recording of the so-called third energy package in the EEA Convention. In view of the viewpoints presented during the discussion, the foreign minister requested further explanations from experts who worked on bodies that follow the Parliament's arrangement. Már Stefánsson of the University of Iceland's Law, and Frederic Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, a lawyer is due the following for this occasion in a letter to the minister of foreign law: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. There is no legal question that the way we suggested and proposed is fundamental in the Congressary decree of the minister of state is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, the fact is the most important thing. 2. The defects we believe are on this route solely depend on whether the uptake and induction of the model would be appropriate for consideration on the part of the ESA, i.e. Whether the induction of the protocol meets national commitments according to the EEA Convention. 3. Although we feel that this route is not over all legal doubt in this regard, we feel very unlikely that the ESA will make comments on this way. The reasons are as follows: a. This Regulation is adopted and implemented. b. Its directives regarding electrical transfers between countries are not to be carried out unless such a connection is established. c. Such a connection will be established only with the approval of the Generals, under the legal instructions at the introduction. d. The selected forms of ACER (ESA) do not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Council decides to link Iceland to the EU's nuclear power market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. In view of the fact that Iceland is not linked to the EU internal energy market, the likelihood that ESAs make comments to the induction is greatly reduced in our opinion. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance in this context. 4. In our opinion, we also suggested another way, that the Council rejected the introductions and that the case would be restored to the joint EEA committee with the view that Iceland would receive an exception. This means that there is a legal advantage beyond the means set out in which it does not include the legal uncertainties described above. 5. However, this way is not without blemish like the other. They are subject to the unique nature of the EEA agreement and of the partnership. As noted, this has not been fully tested for the 25 - year history of the contract, so there have been many political uncertainties regarding the consequences. It may be a challenge to have such an exception approved. As a result, a respectable president, since men have discussed this route, we were recognized by both local and foreign parties as well as by others. A senator and a respectable president are well aware of. I'm encouraging, more dignified president of the United States. To take into account this trial, a senator is quick to take into account. A senator interprets the views of the scholars. This motion comes from the scholars because of the discussion here with certain members of the council, which is exactly the same as the debate today. In case of a moment. The senator is opposed to the energy package, and he must give some evidence other than to quote these excellent scholars, who here make no doubt about their position on the case and the proposed induction. And as it is, a respectable president, that they make a special trial, which has long been done, but for some reason, they have not wanted to recognize, at the beginning: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. Here comes the very next step. A senator is always quoting specific sentences from his opinion. True, I don't understand why. A senator could come to the conclusion if he went through all the opinions, to point out inconsistencies to those factors, which is another matter. For this discussion, there is an appeal, and it is quite clear. Hv. A senator can't come forward and pretend he doesn't exist, and this trial doesn't exist. Hv. A senator can't. He can't come here over and over and over again and pretend he doesn't exist, because it's clear. I've read it twice already. I don't think anybody can blame me for being a little quiet right now. But this is for everyone. This is a formal benefit that was sent to all members of Congress, and not just that, it is also for the entire public. This matter could not be discussed without referring to the obvious: If anyone could misunderstand the point, a special hearing came from the scholars to whom the above is most cited.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u390	Mr. President. That's a short time. I just want to share the questions that I have time to ask as high as I can. The minister didn't answer. I'd like to mention first that I went along with the statements of EFTA members and the EU, on the other hand, that these parties understand Iceland's situation and their reasons and that they may be binding on these governments. But what about all the other laws that base their rights on the EEA Convention? Have they declared that they will not demand that the government meet the obligations of the third energy package? I see time is running fast, Mr. President. I just managed to make this one question happen. I hope I find out more questions afterwards. V.E.G. Minister. Please answer this question, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u391	A respectable president. What we have done is called for major scholars in this field. Hv. A senator, as I understand it, is to assume that someone could ask for an Icelandic government to turn a bead cable or even lay a bead cable. There is no scholar who claims it. It's perfectly clear that that's our decision for Icelanders. We've been on the EEA deal for a long time, and many have been interested in building roads and strings and everything between the sky and the earth, and no one has been able to sue us on the basis of the EEA Convention and ask us to do any of these things. If me and what. A senator wants to take a high road that I don't want to do, and we don't get permission to do it, so we can't sue because we're in the EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u392	Mr. President. That's the situation that comes up if we take our legal route and take the energy package to the joint EEA committee. The minister's speech earlier today showed that he seemed to admit that I thought he had spoken with the officials. Therefore, he should likely be able to inform us what kind of reactions are expected by these individuals, especially in the light of available information on the understanding of Iceland's position, if we take the whole case in place for the joint EEA committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u393	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator is saying that I recognized that I had spoken with certain officials. When it comes to 102nd. which has never been used, never, and speaks of this as always being the case - this case has been in the process for many years, going through Congress treatment, and people have already received the exceptions they requested. In a time of government, no. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of the son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, were carried out on certain leaves, and they were made available. That men can just use this 102nd. without having any particular reason for that, I thought it was obvious that I could not walk. Nevertheless, we began to get the opinion of experts, both foreign and domestic, and it has been introduced to the committees of the council, to members of the body, and to the international body. The result is the one we know, I don't have to repeat it here. Hv. A senator is very aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u394	President. I would like to read the following text of Styrmir Gunnarsson's son, with permission of the highest power. President: The problem that several members of the Parliament have recently maintained because of the government's plans to accept a pack of energy is a reflection of national willingness, as reported in the surveys on the subject. ... The members of the Independence Party have taken up the task of conducting this matter. They are making the greatest mistake the company has ever made in foreign affairs. There are not many mistakes, but mostly in recent years. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to respond to those comments of Styrmir Gunnarsson, probably the human being who knows the true nature of the Independence Party for the best of decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u395	A respectable president. I don't really know how this has something to do with it. I'm not gonna answer that party as much as I am. A senator referred to him. Happily, the independent party has been in the lead when we have made difficult decisions in foreign affairs. And if anyone thinks it, a respectable president, is that when we walked into the Atlantic Union, all the leaders of the Independence Party, that's a misunderstanding. They were called dignitaries. If someone thinks it was super popular when we went to EFTA, that's a big misunderstanding. A poll at the time showed that there was no greater willingness to walk in the EEA, but, fortunately, at all these time points, we had leading leaders who made the right decision for the nation. We thank them all now. This is what has marked the leaders of the Independence Party, to do justice, and not to endure unrighteousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u396	V.E.G. President. I would like to read a little more from these texts of Styrmir Gunnarsson's son. In fact, he reviews more of the Independence Party's failures in foreign affairs, such as changing the category's policy to the EU and returning with it, support of some members of the council at Icesave, and involvement in the illusion of the party's application in March 2015. But Styrmir says, with permission from the President: ▪ The result of what is now taking place at the General Assembly is that large groups of members of the Independence Party no longer trust present members of Congress. That's serious. As a result, I ask, "I'm going to the highest. " Minister of State to stress this case that we are now discussing in opposition to their own party above that 62% of the people are opposed to this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u397	A respectable president. It's interesting. The senator points to these writings. Indeed, I have never supported Iceland's involvement in the European Union and have fought against the fact that we are walking in the European Union longer than most of the people in this room, I think. I certainly never supported the deal on Icesave. But, hey. A senator here referred to the deceptions in March 2015. [[Up front.]] Hv. In March, a senator quoted the deceptions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u398	Part of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u399	The members of the Central Party now pass through the council. They start calling out for quite a lot of people, especially why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I... [[Up front.]] Here we go again. paritaprevir Sigmur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, up front. Is that a sensitive dog? Senator? Is it fragile?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u400	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u402	He won't do it anyway...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u403	A respectable president. Obviously, it's extremely sensitive to him. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. What I was just going to say is that I didn't know that it had been an illusion, but maybe this should be part of the Central Party's part of the puzzle. Clearly, there are different viewpoints. Senators. [[The president calls.]] It'll just be interesting to know about it. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Everybody knows that. Answer the question about whether I support this matter? It's simple, I do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u404	Mr. President. I want to reiterate my encouragement to the highest level. Ministers to consult with advice on the difference between letters of one and a half pages and a legal opinion where results are thoroughly supported and subversive. I may not have put the most emphasis on my speech on the Constitution and on the aspect of being considerate of the minister, but the more I emphasized his conclusion to legal advisers that the implementation of Regulation 713/2009 would mean that foreign institutions would receive at least An indirect effect on the organization, provision and use of Icelandic energy resources. I restate my desire to have a minister answer to how he has responded. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I would like his explanation of the transition he represents in foreign affairs by granting access to resources for access to the market, which is a fundamental change as everyone realizes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u405	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite realize where it is. A senator is going when he is deliberately wrong over and over again. To say that instead of some market access, we are accessing resources is completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u406	That's what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u407	Hv. A senator calling back in. They say this, after they have brought a special appeal, even a respectable president. Because of the words of men like the wind. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u408	She's not going to find out about this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u409	It accurately explains these factors because it was because they were concerned about the constitution. Hv. The senator must see it if he has read their opinion, which is very good. They are, as they themselves say, conservative in this regard. Other scholars disagreed, thinking that the induction would fully harmonize. No one's suggesting, a respectable president, no scholar, that we're losing any of our resources, not any of them. In case of a moment. A senator's plan is to repeat it over and over again, and he must deal with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u410	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm still going to pass. A minister of great surprise. I thought the minister had seen why he had come here to have a conversation about a very important case that lies before the General. Of course, a minister realizes that this issue has caused great turmoil in our society. People are very worried about this, he can't hide it, it's daylight. I allowed myself to hope that he would answer the questions asked here to him. The fact that we have some speech conference exercises, as may be appropriate for the Independence Party's political school, does not refer to such a big, dramatic, and dramatic matter, and does not hold in this part of the General Sale. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to make their language more difficult, and for God's sake, let them stop believing that everyone here is not read unless he is himself. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u411	A respectable president. I think the board was here 17 hours or something like this and explained. Indeed, I did so in my first year. I changed my schedule so that I could get here and put some words at ease. Senators. I refer to official evidence from scholars and whatnot. A senator calls it a seminar practice. A respectable president. All I can say is this because I'm not going to try to convince each other. Councilmen, no matter what you say, no matter what the facts you point out, the responses are all the same. I urge everyone to study this. This lawsuit I referred to is the Homepage of the State Department of America from April 10, 2019. I encourage everyone to read it. Sadly, everyone reading it realizes that there is sadness. A senator, or perhaps, fortunately, on a perfect wild trail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u412	Mr. President. I'm not going to waste my time responding to the noise and outback of the highest. Rather, a minister tries to answer such questions as one question. I, however, will answer his shit later in a talk. V.E.G. A minister has yet to explain why he chose the inferior route of the scribes appointed by many committees. Nor has he answered whether he intends to go the opposite way, although in the way these scholars said that he would have to do so. They were very clear about the fact that it would not work against the Constitution unless it included a legal advance, which meant that governments would not introduce, in other words, delay the problem, postpone the question of the constitution. These same scholars claimed that they had not seen this warning; they had to be that the government would not introduce it. What the government is doing, however, is making a complete statement that it does not want it to mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u413	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here speaks of the opposite route. We've done it, we've called both foreign parties, Carl Baudenbacher, also from abroad to cross a path that obviously isn't capable and should not be used unless there's any real interests and they're not here. Only then I'll witness again to the court, by permission of President Stefánsson and Friðriksson Hirst: Although we feel that this way has not exceeded all the legal doubts in this regard, we feel very unlikely that ESAs will make comments on this route. The reasons are as follows: a. This Regulation is adopted and implemented. Invented. I don't understand why. A senator does not want to examine the results of these individuals that he is always referring to. That's totally incomprehensible. Their concern is that ESAs might make comments, so they argue exactly how low the probability of it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u414	Mr. President. I've done a lot of research, and it just so happens on the same day as the highest. The minister published the letter that he specifically called, being in trouble with his logical reasoning, went to the Friðriksson Frideksson Hirst for an interview with ml.is, and explained that this route was certainly not flawless, with risks, for example. that the ESA could see a reason to address a contract violation on the grounds that Iceland had adopted the third energy package, had introduced it. He also showed the possibility that individuals or lawyers could appeal to a damage case and that they had this right because of the induction. They were very clear at committee meetings, these scholars, that they had not seen the warning. Yet, they had seen everything as the highest. Minister had introduced. The premonitions would have to be that it would not be introduced. But the highest. A minister is ensuing by some one - sided statement that some scholars made to him as an unprecedented method. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u415	A respectable president. There is a small problem with this argument: this lawsuit came after the interview. I'm just gonna reread this renovation, with president's permission: The ACER (ESA) authority does not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Allied Council decides to link Iceland to the EU electronic energy market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. No one can base his rights on these principles. This is from Friðrik Motorsson and Frither of the Árni Friðriksson Hirst. Hv. A senator cannot say that he has studied the matter carefully if he has not studied this appeal that follows the discussion and, in fact, after the interview as well as the interview. To make a decision, so we don't compromise what's going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u416	President. I call the president's attention to the fact that the three - year anniversary celebration of the political party is now under way. It has been customary for the council to show the respect that when they are formal, I do not speak of formal celebrations, if at the same time, it is clear that, for example, there is no meeting with the members of the council. in this case to the point of shock. The reverends must want to come down here and observe the discussion. It's a little strange, therefore, if it's President's intention to give up this year's tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u417	The president is aware that the political party of Reunion will have a three - year anniversary today. They are happy for this reason, but the meeting is in full agreement with its leaders, and they do not comment on the continuation of this part of the program. They follow up on the events, but it seems that their senators said everything they have to say in this discussion. So thank you. A senator for the tip, but this was thought, and this is done in full consultation with the relevant category.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u418	Mr. President. I would've chosen to have a place to speak at the highest level. Secretary of state. He did not answer all the questions I asked him and turned out of one of them in particular. So I'm just going to step in on it. I think it's the highest. Ministers have turned their backs on the cable. It's obvious, and I think it's undisputed that this front man will be the law that can't be placed without the permission of the Allegis--then the minister went out anyway. Of course, it's about how the Allied Council operates the legislation and induction that prevents the legislators from laying a cable. Whether or not the induction could result in the legislation of the complaint and/or the complaint to the ESA. And then, whether or not the situation of Iceland is considered guilty of the European Economic Area Convention and the legislation and/or the inadequate implementation of the Generals, these include business barriers in the sense of the Commission and the Regulation of the third energy package. This is fundamental. It is not simple to say that there will be a law that says there will be no sea cable laid without the permission of the Allied Council. There's just a lot of opinions there. The minister of foreign affairs would have had to answer and explain more to the United States. I don't think so. This must be fully explained. This can be very expensive for us if we find ourselves considered to be fragile or unscrupulous. We have experienced the lack of induction. We know it's from the raw meat, the cryo-depth. We know how much it cost a government fund. The billions of dollars had to be paid for. There's some things that have to be handled in these areas. We do not want to be in the same situation that we were in when the freezing issue came up at the time. It was a law that we thought was completely satisfactory. But something else came to the fore. A long, difficult career through lawsuits and all that goes with them, worries the local community about how things would develop. It did a lot of damage, I mean. There was the wrong impression. To me, it's clear when you read this over and review with a critical attitude that is on the road to uncertainty that could be just as much as the freezing family thing I mentioned as we all know. This is one of the points I was very interested in talking to the minister of foreign affairs. He couldn't be here any more. [[The president calls.]] I'm very disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u419	Mr. President. I'll take it to the highest level. Secretary of state has left the scene. [[Foreign Minister was here for about three and a half hours (Precise to.) and actively participated in discussions. He had a duty today and had to make quite an opportunity to become a member of the Parliament's wishes to come and stay on the discussion until dinner break. But he has responsibilities, that's right.]] and actively participated in discussions. He had a duty today and had to make quite an opportunity to become a member of the Parliament's wishes to come and stay on the discussion until dinner break. But he has responsibilities, that's right.) Just to be clear. Thank you so much. Thank you. paritaprevir The message of the Birgir of Þórarinsson for this speech. I have similar concerns because the highest language is being done. I was disappointed in the foreign minister of old. I was surprised at how little he knew about this matter. He did not seem to realize the seriousness of the situation. That's why I'd like to go over with a little something. The senator's risk of making such an introduction now and looking out according to the case we have in front of us, so that in time we can create a liability for ourselves and the way it is presented. I am speaking primarily of lost warnings that no one knows about and that have been told by various sources that are not worth the paper and that will not be held anywhere in court. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of this is whether there is a significant danger that might even cost a fortune to the future. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u420	Mr. President. Yes, I traced earlier that any uncertainty about these materials is very bad. Since the government is never to organise its laws and control procedures, it is insurmountable around them. This may be very difficult and costly. That's what happened on the freezing family case. We implemented as presented in the 2009 European Union Food Code. It is also true that there was never any progress at the beginning of the EEA Convention that agrienvironment schemes were in there but then they did. There are so many things in this contract that have changed over the years, and there is a very special subject. We'll see now that we've got the energy in there. That's something they didn't start off with in the first place. This has been the case in particular by former minister of state Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson in his review of the decree that we discuss here that we have never yet been given. He's one of our leading specialists at the EEA Convention. He came to his work and knew his various aspects and viewpoints. So I think there's an uncertainty there that can be very expensive to us and should not be there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u421	Mr. President. Yeah, I got the same feeling as that. Senator. Throughout this discussion, of course, the last popular conversation has repeated reports that we are concerned about the warnings given, that they are not able to pass, even not the law, and how they are put in place. Coming in advance, for example. In a matter of law, I think you can say, blameful or even dangerous. The European Union is sliding as far as it can go. It's not a Boy Scout Club. They're hard-necked interest organizations and natural, that we're just like an ant hanging on an elephant in comparison. They will be more important for us to ensure that all the ends of this matter that we are discussing are in the way that they are holding. And then the question is, What do you think? A senator that can be done to minimize uncertainty? Counts 'em out. A senator that in order to improve the work of this matter, it is necessary that we postpone it, so that we can work on exactly the opinions that certainly woke up during the visit of a foreign minister to our meeting here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u422	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He mentioned the highest. Secretary of state. Sadly, I must say that his answers disappointed me greatly. He read up opinions that we have access to and that we already studied. It was a very special entrance. Minister, I must say, he answered vaguely and with a twist, even putting on the edge. Councilmen accused them of not reading opinions and such. This is the second or third time he accuses members of Congress and especially one member of Congress not to read. This is about my judgment at the time of harassment. This is not how ministers should proceed in their case. This sounded more like some seminary exercise in Valhalla or Morphis or whatever it is. I think it's the best. Ministers put down on this kind of lawsuit, I must say so, Mr. President, to be said from this chair. That's me for the third time I've heard it. A minister puts it out for what? paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, a doctor of economics and a man who learned that he didn't read the data. It's a natural saying that's not supposed to happen, it's very simple. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson was talking about uncertainty. It's clear to me that we're at the ultimate. Secretary of state today did not spend any uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u423	President. That's right, a short visit at the top. The secretary of state did not eliminate any uncertainty, but what is worse is that this visit, in some respects, added to the uncertainty. In fact, for the most part the minister just discussed his old vocal points, read them up. But one of the non-responders - they were most answered, our questions - turned to it for good. A senator mentioned, the possibility of contracting as damages because we have not made it properly, or are suffering damages on the basis of the induction as if it had occurred correctly. That has been mentioned in the discussion, the highest. A minister only admitted it, and I heard him admit, that there is a certain danger that ESAs sees a reason to enter a contract violation against the Icelandic government because of this peculiar method of induction; and on the grounds that, in fact, the package has been installed as a whole and needs to act accordingly. There's one thing. But the second thing is that there is a possibility which I hear. A senator is concerned - at least I am concerned about him - that from the standpoint of the ESA or the EU's appeals, private members might adopt a case of appeal based on the fact that a pack of three is actually introduced fully, not allowed to be done on one - sided notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u424	Mr. President. Yes, I asked the highest. Minister to this today, and he didn't answer my inquiry. I repeated it, and the answer was in the form of a twist, as it is tamed in this matter. We have these statements. The EFTA countries make a statement, Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland, followed by a statement made by the European Union. However, note that they do not make a joint declaration. They publish it separately, which is also interesting. If this declaration should have any significance, then the parties should be on that declaration. But it isn't. The declaration goes on to show that understanding Iceland's position and these warnings are understood, and they would be potentially binding on these governments, i.e. The declaration should probably be binding to the EFTA and EFTA binding on the European Union. But then we'll get to it. One senator noted: "What about all the legal agencies that are legally based on the terms of the agreement? They are not involved in these statements. Have them e.g. Are they not going to demand that the Icelandic government fulfill their duties according to a pack of three energy? There's no record of that. It's just plain and clear. [[The president calls.]] I asked a foreign minister about this specifically, and there wasn't much answers, unfortunately, as we did so many other things that we expected him today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u425	President. Yes, these political declarations are natural capitalists, and they illustrate the weak state of the crisis at the highest level. A minister and a spokesman for the bill and this synonym is trying to build on some general political conversation. And that these politicians have come to state that some conversation took place where it was just being told the facts, something of no value, not national value. But what especially drew my attention to both of these declarations, on the other hand, to some account of the conversation of the minister of foreign affairs with Miguel, the European Union's energy manager, and, on the other hand, what came out of the EFTA countries, is that men seemed to be very careful with the word - in the sense that they have to be careful not to say anything that could happen to men in the future. Even though this is of no importance to national rights, in both cases people were still there to be careful not to say anything that could be hung over. This was merely a description of the fact that Iceland is an island, and there is no sea cable, and while there is no sea cable available, there are no rules that would result from the presence of a sea cable. It's kind of a round-out thing. But there's a reason. A senator agrees with me: Has he noticed how the wording in both of these announcements, or what to call it, is comparable, very similar, but the nature of being careful to say nothing that would be possible for them later? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u426	Mr. President. Yes, these statements are very special. You wonder, " Why are we going this way when the only right and legal way is to take the case to the committee itself? ' This is the way to resolve differences, which is specifically indicated in this article. But there is some terrible dread of the government in which it takes a path that is not defined in my opinion. It is stated that the EEA contract may be upset. But that is totally illogical. I asked the highest. The minister of foreign affairs precisely what had gone down between the officials he claimed to have met and discussed how they viewed it if the case went to the EEA joint committee and whether they had expressed their concerns about it. There was no answer from the minister on this. Which tells you that if they had been concerned that taking the case before the committee could have led to serious consequences, they would have said the best. Secretary of it. However, he does not want to answer this, which makes it quite clear in my mind that they had no worries. But the highest. Minister just won't tell us. That's the way it is to me, anyway. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u427	President. A remarkable visit. The minister of foreign affairs earlier, after the discovery of the minister, returned to the country, and then to this hall, has raised much more questions than she answered. V.E.G. In fact, a minister initially kept to his old talk points from the Ministry, as if nothing had happened in the meantime, nothing had been revealed, and no discussion had taken place. It was evident that the minister had not followed up on the subject. But then, to the small extent that he had something to offer but a mistake to the one who asked each time, he enlightened the highest. The minister to us that his concern for the intervention of the Norwegian minister - Norse, whom I would like to call, would go further than the highest. A minister had indicated earlier. There was nothing more to hear from the Minister than that there were Northmen in each corner running the conversation in Iceland. There he turned his sights towards the Norwegian Middle East and Nej to the EU organization in Norway. This was odd in view of the fact that in spite of this great Norwegian interest, the minister could not answer the matter in the Norwegian Parliament, regarding the attitude of Norwegian political parties, the Norwegian people, and the labor movement. Moreover, he could not answer any of the points I have made to talk about and look for answers - for they do not come from the minister - i.e. The eight warnings adopted by the Norwegian Council were conditional that certain classes and politicians were prepared to pass the case through the Norwegian Parliament. You see, the day has come when these models probably have nothing, and now, 14 months after they were accepted, the European Union has not yet received an answer to confirm their significance; for it is unprecedented that a state puts one-sided notice in its implementation at the EEA Convention. But the reason I insisted. The minister's comments on these warnings are specific, and in fact, on other matters, which did not answer, they relate to the so - called Icelandic advance. Also, there was little question about the minister's answers. The Icelandic Guards, if they're head-to-head. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça is still searching - obviously less than the Norwegians, yet they include the hypotheses that have been mentioned as where they can find some notes of political discussions or opinions on a report or something like that. What I would have wanted to know from the highest level. Minister, and still waiting for a member of the management team to come and explain to us why we should expect these vague Icelandic warnings, in the form of declarations or notes by chats, to be meaningful, while clearly defined eight primes of the Norwegian Council at its introduction appear to be of no value. So another story, Mr President, is that by redirecting the case to the European Commission, the Norwegian Committee would also give the Norwegian people the opportunity to test whether or not they have any priors, whether they can get the approved ones as a formal enunciation. But for some reason, it's the highest. A minister strongly opposes the return of the case to the joint committee. There, Norway is back in its history. I see that I can't go over that part of the case at this point, but if the president asks me to register on the rosary, which I know he's not going to do until the answers are over, but that will have been recorded by the highest level. Mr. President, I hope you have a rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u428	That's what the President will do. It's only for the reason that it's more confusing for those who might be watching the rosary to see a speaker's record, which is also another speaker in reply. The president also calls attention to the fact that two young men are involved. The second, asking for an answer, has been repeated by members of Parliament and is taking full advantage of 16 minutes. It is a minute better than the council assumes that the decision is made, so the president has clearly misunderstood the declaration of the Council of the Middle Party today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u429	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, spoke well. In this advance, I could not keep track of the discussion that took place at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs, except with an ear that is now being written up, will proceed in detail afterwards, and especially in the context of Directive No. 72/2009, taking into account Regulation 713 as part of the Directive. I'm interested in how much I love it. The minister of foreign affairs seems to get it out in his previous discussion of this specific Congress decree that this is really so that we can make an advance on one side. To me, it seems simply that by removing the controlled warning through the synonym, the directive will take effect and thereby introduce the entire third energy package. It is a clear law that when the government's warning is lifted, the decree is legally valid in the national rights, and we are bound to the national rights that go further. As a result, do I ask: Do those who are taken on national rights, but do not pledge us to national rights, are they able to maintain legality?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u430	President. It is clear that there is no authority to put one-sided notice in the EEA Convention. It's also clear, like what. A senator stated that when they are fully introduced, they, except for the details given by the joint EEA committee, have been specialised. What some scholars have noted is that it is possible that the minister may be able to avoid the use of the induction. But it depends on it - and this is absolutely basic. The minister of foreign affairs for some reason ignores - that the warnings are the means by which they prevent induction. In other words, induction is postponed. The premonitions have to say that induction does not occur. This may put the problem off. It may then require a response by ESAs who feel that the induction is not allowed to be delayed. At the very least, it is possible for someone to have a chance, something related to it as the highest. The minister and the government state, he must be the nature of the induction, as if to form a law date, which means that the law will not be valid until it is a specific date. In this case, the legal guardian would have to be such that the introduction would not take place until something had taken place. But that's not the way you're going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u431	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The reason I'm doing this is because I'm here giving a speech in front of my head. Minister of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son, 9th of April. in the previous discussion of the implementation of Directive No. 72/2009 and with regard to the third energy package or the Parliament's odor proposal as discussed here. It says, by permission of the president: In this situation, it is also of utmost importance a common understanding of the EU energy manager at the uniqueness enjoyed by Iceland in a common energy market. - That's where I assume he's referring to us as the off-line energy market at the moment. It is also true that the common understanding is very much the basis for the induction of the induction. Although the declaration does not have a legal influence, it has a legal significance, and it shows that our parties have the same understanding as we do on the basis of the induction. Now I get it, so that's where I admit it's the highest. Ministers of State that the proclamation mentioned here in other talks has no legal value. It may be used as a legal guide in applying permanent notice. It could be meaningful. However, if the induction takes place in a traditional way, as stated in the synonym, this resolution will not be a legal explanation thereafter. I'd like to have some thoughts at ease. A senator on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u432	President. That was a very clever gesture. I hope so. A senator will consider this better in a special talk because I had not completely figured out the point. On the other hand, what he said in the leader is a fact. Clearly, this is not legal. This may be used as a legal tool, but it has no value in national rights. This is another reminder of what I mentioned only briefly earlier. The way these statements are said is all to say, apparently, that men can speak out of it later. A person is careful to say that this is not a formal legal value, but points out that it can be used, likely in a way that is appropriate. A senator mentioned, yet with the faults he points to, and I found it very interesting. This is another time when some new surface will come up in this, and we're gradually taking more and more layers off this case and getting closer to the core. If we take ourselves back a little from searching for the very core of this matter and look at the big picture, we'll see that there's some reason why we should go to the top. Ministers and the government do not trust to send the case back to the EEA joint committee. If they really believe that there was a measure of any use in these issues, there would be no basis for them to deal with them in a formal and binding manner in the common EEA committee. But that is not what they want to do. Why is that? I have some theories about that, but that's at least It's obvious that humans are deliberately less than they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u433	Mr. President. It is not only the missing models that are concerned about this synoptic arrangement but also the points that are called common understanding. It was so bad. A minister went from house to house before I could ask him about this common understanding because this common understanding seems to have no legal value. I also wondered, " How did this common understanding develop? ' Was it on a phone call, in a coffee shop, or over a sandwich and soda? How is he confirmed? There was a short story last night, but she was really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I think the highest. Minister has then been in Brussels, if I recall correctly, with EFTA at a meeting, and the headline of the story was an OSOM highlighting a common understanding. Now I don't know how he emphasized that common understanding or with whom or if he did it only to himself. I'd like to hear a little bit of it. A senator what he can tell me about this concept, common understanding. Because it comes out... I guess I'll have to come to that later and answer that we're running out of time. I just wanted to think about it. A senator of this concept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u434	President. This is actually just another example of trying to draw rabbits out of a hat to justify the induction of the third energy package. For one thing, seeing for the first reason that the European Union's Department of Energy agrees with Iceland's foreign minister that the country is an island and nothing is connected with a sea cable, shows that there is something missing in meaningful reasoning. Of course, seeing reasons to stress that such a conversation took place is further a reminder that better moisture is probably not to be expected. In many ways, this is similar to the problems we have faced with our search for warnings. True, it does. A senator mentioned the identity of the guardian as one hypothesis. However, the reason why the warning has been difficult to find is that it has been so many attempts to draw a rabbit out of its hat; changing the electricity law, which hides in an article that is actually present, with some comment in a report, which basically describes just the will of the council, etc. All of this is the same well, they're looking for some way to prove that it's okay. And while we're going to implement the directive, it has no significant effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u435	Mr. President. A lawyer's Eyjólfur of Ármannsson sent a government commission that I could not help but hear at the highest level. A minister would not have read, and in addition he saw himself compelled to speak down to this fine lawyer, I don't know why he did it. According to Eyjólfur, where the common understanding appears, there are contradictions and inexplicability. It says here, by permission of the President: As for the induction of the third energy package in Iceland, conditions in Iceland are considerably different from those in other countries where energy networks cross borders. - This is a confirmation that Iceland is an island. This is why the special arrangement for Iceland, approved by the joint EEA committee, will be avoided by all unnecessary loads, best for Icelandic conditions. So many were words. What the attorney may not fully understand and say is unclear is what special arrangement for the European Commission is to accept as the best for the Icelandic situation. There's no description of that. What does that include? What's that about? So says an Eyjólfur, this fine lawyer, by permission of a president: The specific programme for Iceland should take into account Iceland's special status and geographic status as a state outside the EU internal energy market. But this is not clear in the Senate arrangement. So you wonder, " What legal position has this emphasized common understanding? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u436	Mr. President. It may be possible for humans to name it in a lawsuit, but it has very limited significance there, and in view of the fact that such a lawsuit would be based on international justice, it would really have no meaning. But the expression "worship. " A senator specifically asked about this underlining, joint declaration that Iceland's special status has to be acknowledged, is just a description of the available facts, not a description of Iceland's having some particular legal position in the form of a release. It's like a whisk. A senator mentioned, only a description of the fact that Iceland is an island and that there is no connection. And as long as there is no connection, if it had come, nothing to say. It may be said that being an island in this EEA community is a special place, but not quite. There are more islands, and some of them are not linked by sea cables. In that light, it is very interesting to look to Cyprus, who enjoy the speciality described there. Now, though, it is to link Cyprus with a cable. In that case Cyprus will likely lose that unique position. How does that happen? This will occur under the guidance of the European Union's Common Energy Agency, which is working to eliminate barriers to the development of this connection. [[The president calls.]] And there goes your special situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u437	Mr. President. I'm still in a similar area because I can admit that when it came to the top. The minister of state did not recognize the review that Attorney Eyjólfur Ármannsson gave to the Foreign Affairs Committee about the third energy package, first of all, a blow to me. But what surprised me very much at the visit of the minister here was how he seemed to be really uncomfortable with this matter. He brought a lot of assistants here, but he didn't have any answers. He didn't seem to have a lot of things we were asking him about. I was so worried about this. As a matter of fact, I admit it, when I heard it from the highest level. A minister did not surprise me as much as before. If it's really so much that the Minister wasn't better at what was going on about it, then it's not quite as surprising to me as before how bad this case is and how little we need to protect Iceland's interests, I think. It is, in fact, one of the main conclusions that, as stated on page 1, Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, says: The third energy package is to be turned down by the General Assembly and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such treatment does not threaten the EEA agreement, and [is] fully in accordance with its regulations. This will add to the review, and on page two, by permission of a president: ▪ The review of the Article 3 of the Council Directive on the implementation of the EU Types into the Member States is of little but interesting interest, as follows: The terms of this proposal shall be agreed by Regulation (EC) No 37/2010. 713/2009 [of the European Commission] introduced in Icelandic just as per local law but legally noted that the basis for transporting electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will not be established or estimated unless the exception of a review of the Regulation's legislation on the basis of its laws and that its obligations regarding cross-border connections will not be carried out until the review is completed. It will also be considered even further and specifically at the Generals field whether its introduction in these circumstances harmonizes with the Icelandic constitution. This fine lawyer, Eyjólfur Ármannsson's son, continues, saying: It can be seen here that the legal prefect includes questionable legal climatic conditions and the uncertainty of the follow-up of the EEA Convention but is to be warned that by induction, Iceland can become part of the internal energy market. This involves expeditation of sovereignty, Mr. President - ◯ and administrative matters and at the Council to demand more information about the induction. That's exactly what we've been doing here all this time. Actually, no requirement. We've just asked for it very politely, but no answers have been received. I hoped that when a minister arrived, we would get some answers. The minister was only here for this discussion in his underwear, so knowledgeably. Moreover, it concludes with this fine lawyer, with the permission of a president: ◆ From the quoted words, we can see that the legal committee is unclear. So he's the same with us, this fine lawyer. He's looking for the lost warning, just like us. And he can't find it either. I have to admit that when I read this statement from the lawyer - I'm going to get even closer to her in the next few speeches, because she's a little growing bit -- you kind of fell into a fire. Then shall the minister come here, bent on him, and answered nothing, and seem not to know anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u438	Mr. President. In fact, there was originally another point I was going to make a comment in my speech. A senator, and maybe it's time for me to do it. But in view of what he was reading at the end of his talk, about the evaluation of this lawyer, that in this furtive supply of power, this was a reminder. A senator to me about things that I've wondered about, like most people in this discussion, but the much more after the visit of the foreign minister earlier. It is by postponement of the power capacity and by using it as logical support for the implementation of a constitution. In other words, postpone the problem. You can see one of the things you missed during the discussion earlier. A minister was there to remind us that in the many - called Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, they point out that whether one is going to deal with this now or postpone the problem using the procedure discussed here, although it is not in harmony with what they have contributed, but what about it - we plan to postpone the problem, however, the question of whether this will remain in the constitution. Although they offer an opportunity to postpone the problem by not ensuing - and well - meaning, it is not what the minister is doing, he is ensuing - but offering this procrastination route by not enforcing a warning that prevents the induction, they still state that it is now necessary to resolve this with a governmental warning. [[The president calls.]] I'm not wrong about this, am I? I wanted to ask you why. After what he mentioned, a member of the council quoted the lawyer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u439	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what you start to think of when you heard it. I have to admit, when I hear of the ultimate. A minister would come here to meet us - and I was very happy about it - I thought to myself, " Now we're going to get answers to all the questions we've been looking for, and we've been looking for answers to the last pop. ' Now we'll be much more calm when the Minister is finished here and maybe we can just finish the discussion, that's why. But no, on the contrary. After the minister's visit, you may feel even more insecure than before, including this, that he is not sure who the legal agent is. So he cannot find the lost warning any more than we do. Of course, it would have been the best - and now I understand the highest. Foreign Ministers have obligations and need to meet some foreign eater, but still, so many questions have been raised here during the recent years on this and many others. That is why I hoped that a minister would bring something more in the family than nonsense, ergel, and sis. Sadly, that was just what he had in the family; a lack of temper and understanding of the project. It was obvious to him that he has no intention of making such an announcement. [[The president calls.]] There's still time, Mr. President. But there is concern that this is the way it should be, that the minister intends to continue the case as he intends to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u440	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a lot of weird stuff. But I reiterate the question about the procrastination of the problem: A senator did not agree with me that even if it was possible for humans to prepare a warning that we could delay the question of - or rather say: " Even if it was possible to make a warning that a violation of the Constitution should not take place now because it was not being introduced now, however, this is the time to answer the question about the introduction, when it will occur, it will conflict with a constitution. It's not what. A senator agreed with me that it is very strange to intend to engage in the implementation of EU regulations in the hope that it will pass the constitution? Do you do not complete the introduction but proclaim that it may later occur under certain circumstances, perhaps during a transponder connection, but will you please wait to see if the case will last until then? A journey that is not known whether or not, when it is passed all the way, will conflict with a constitution? It could be compared to, as I did for other reasons in yesterday's discussions, to get up on a train and think about whether the train is going to the right place, and to think, "Well, if she's not going to the right place, I'll just jump out of it on a trip. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u441	Mr. President. I'm sorry I didn't answer the question about the postponement before. Propulsionism is never good, and putting problems off and pushing them ahead is never good. It's never good to have such a fear of decision that you can't handle things right away. Speaking of being on a train and deciding where you're going when she's started, I thought it was more like being on a truck and driving into a narrow one-way street and then even backing out a mirrorless street. That's not good. I've tried it, it's not a very good way. In this case, we're starting an adventure, not knowing whether the case will fit Iceland's constitution, but knowing that the previously unknown power supply is in the process. Still, people are going to move this way, and they know that they cannot back out the mirrorless again. The people are being committed in such a way that they will not be released unless they are told to all of the EEA deals, which I think no one is interested in, although any, and including us, has said that it is probably a review of them because Iceland is not the same Iceland or Europe is far from the same Europe as she was. It's kind of a weird little bitch. Who's the luggage on this adventure tour? The luggage is Iceland's resources, the country's shoreline. Yet, people are willing to go on this expedition, knowing that their destination is not really. [[The president calls.]] That's what I like about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u442	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have in front of me a concierge proposal. I don't know what has to be done so often to make it clear that in the Senate arrangement itself, it would especially be necessary to take notice, but it's not there. By permission of the President in the 2nd party of the Parliament's resolution: The EEA Convention commits the decisions of the joint EU Member States to national rights immediately after they have been taken, unless any of them are authorized by. 103. g. The EEA Convention to warn that a decision cannot be binding immediately because of the administrative conditions at home. This is what we're doing here. Because this is a matter of the constitution, the General Assembly needs to be removed. So, on permission of the president, says: ▪ The Icelandic government has only made governmental plans when making a decision called for a national legal adjustment, which in this case leads to a 21st degree. The constitution to gain approval by the General Assembly should be agreed before the decision is established. This is the highest. Secretary of State trying to get through here. But it has also been customary to allow governments to commit themselves to the national rights by convening before the law of the land is changed in accordance with its decision. I repeat, before national rights are adjusted according to their decision, i.e. The Constitution will have to be changed for this to last. ▪ Prefect 21 par. The Constitution covers national rights agreements, but it obviously also applies to cases where these contracts are made changes. According to the directive, the approval of the Generals is deserved if a contract involves excommunication or treason, or if it looks at a change in government terms. This includes, Mr. President, acknowledging that this will protect the Constitution of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Could this be clearer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u443	Mr. President. Now is such a time for hunting on page 18. 3 On the basis of the lawyer's review of Ármannsson's annual son says, by permission of a president: To introduce national rules that do not have value in Iceland leads to legal uncertainty and conflict with national interests. When you read this text, it may not be strange at the top. The minister of foreign affairs has not been interested in reading it. This fine man lives in Norway, and it is not as convenient to bring the text down as previously tested by other scholars. And now I am not valuing their honor: I make it clear. But it is obvious that they have been made difficult when giving their report. It's right in front of us. He further says, with Presidential permission: The fear of losing control of natural resources is one reason why Iceland is not a member of the European Union. Then he comes to set matters straight, to establish the rules of the land as he describes them, and hangs on the 21st floor. the constitution as far as it's concerned. A senator just referred to him. In this discussion, we have sometimes put it this way that there are constantly receiving puzzles to fill in this picture. I feel like there's one more puzzle here. To tell you the truth, I do not know how to handle this statement on the State Department, whether the committees read it in private or if there was anything about it at meetings in the Committee - but I still find it very different that foreign ministers themselves do not recognize her existence. [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, this is one of the greatest documents I've yet read, which describes this unprecedented synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u444	Mr. President. I couldn't finish in my previous answer, but thank you very much. The senator's answer. So I'd like to, by permission of the President, read on from this specific council proposal: It is the law of God that says: "This is the law of the Christ, the Son of man, the Son of man, and the Son of man. " Twenty-one. The Constitution - ◯er consents to the Generals'consent if a contract involves exorbitant or open land or land or if it looks at changes in government terms. The latter point has been interpreted to allow the approval of Generalis to be settled in the setting of a national right to call for a legal adjustment in this country. The decision made by the joint EEA committee involves a change in the EEA Treaty, but since it requires changes in the country's legislation, it was taken on a administrative notice. In accordance with the above statements, you will request the approval of Generalis for the change in the EEA agreement in the decision-making process. It is suggested that the General Home of the Government to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention on the grounds that no cross-border infrastructure is now available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 - which I will, Mr. President, therefore, go deeper into my next talks - ◯um setting up the Department of Health at the energy market, is not relevant and therefore not having a practical significance for the country's country unchanged. But if there's a foundation over the border, there's something to it, Mr. President. You see, they mean something. And if it is introduced in a conventional way, it accepts legal values and obligates us to national rights. This involves the controversies described by scholars. I must say, Mr. President, it is getting a little tired of not getting proper answers and explaining what people mean by these legal warnings -- which must contain dates, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u445	Mr. President. One thing about this 21. and the text that I read from the lawyer Eyjólfur, the Ármannsson of the Year - but the - year - old. A senator was well aware that the approval of the Generalis should come in case of a change in Article 21. The constitution - is that the lawyer adds, by permission of the president: ▪ It is clear that the nation's greatest natural resource must be agreed. Here, this fine lawyer says clearly: This case is so large that they are going to be paid nationally. Then he says this in the chart on page 5. 1 but on page 24. 4 As a result, he says, with permission from the President: The Parliamentary Parliamentary Council is to refuse to submit its proposal and announce it to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. For Iceland, such fears in the EEA work are dangerous. If they don't have the courage to walk the path and push it back to the common committee, according to the 102nd paragraph. and more articles in the EEA Convention, this is dangerous. It's dangerous for Iceland. He says: Fear is dangerous. Not responding and making use of the whole contract, as we have actually spoken about here during our previous popular stand, is dangerous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u446	Mr. President. I've just considered a certain aspect of the synopsis proposal to counter the question. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. It refers to the application of 103 str. The EEA Convention. Now I'd like to connect for people to the 103rd paragraph. The EEA agreement which we are bound to follow to national rights. It seems to get in the way of something in 103rd. says, with permission of the president: If the determination of the joint EEA committee to generate the third energy package, i.e. The decision of the joint EEA -- ◯ can only be binding for its contract after meeting administrative conditions, the decision should be established on the date mentioned in it...-◯ When, chief? Mr President, shall this order be fulfilled? It is stated that it will go into effect on the date mentioned in it, if it is a special day, that, provided that the partner contract party reported to the other parties for the day that the administrative conditions have been met. Government conditions here will only be met by a change in the constitution or on the other hand, that in the Senate resolution arrangement there is a date that determines when we will be gone. ▪ If the announcement has not been announced to that date, the decision will be valid for the first day of the second month after the last announcement. Clearly, this case is so badly worked that it is quite remarkable. I'm sorry to have to say that. That is why scholars have identified the problem. There's nothing for no reason that tools are about whether this thing can go through. By permission of a president, 2 mgr. 103. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ If the announcement has not been completed six months after the decision of the joint EEA committee should be made temporarily by the joint EEA committee, while administrative conditions have not been met. That is true of us in this case, it is temporary until the administrative notice has been fulfilled. It has not been satisfied until the Council has actually authorized the Supreme Court. Secretary of State to introduce the actions on behalf of the Icelandic government, except, as is said here, the contract agency reports this and temporary validation cannot take place. By permission of Mr. President: In the latter case, or informing the contract that the decision of the joint EEA committee has not been approved, the delay should be submitted in 5 mg. 102st. will apply one month after the announcement, but not prior to that day, the corresponding form of the EB will be implemented in the Community. Which she's done. The third pack of energy has been fully introduced into the Community, is in full force there. Mr. President. This is very clear. This is in the Parliament's decree, but the attempt here to fully introduce the species and then plan to be warned -- it is almost no matter who this legal arrangement is, it will be made either by altering its constitution or by taking the case back to the joint EEA Commission because the government watch is about the violation of the constitution. That's exactly what they say in the council arrangement. He's on the 21st floor. That's why the council proposal has come out. Otherwise, it would have been introduced as other regulations. Is asking too much, Mr. President, to the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is here to answer and explain his point when referring to a joint statement? He hasn't been here to inform us about the date to follow. It's just not there, Mr. President. I'm very sorry that you just have to chew out the facts of the council so that members of Congress can accept this in an effort to get some conclusion. Then they're surprised we're here to continue the discussion. [[The president calls.]] But there is no answer to this question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u447	Mr. President. As we have seen many times, there is anxiety and frustration as to how badly this matter is prepared and set out. We have prayed earnestly that the case may be delayed until autumn. Now I see that in the side hall, two fine members of the Independence Party are bound to meet the highest. The minister of state over a cup of coffee and cake tomorrow, when the Independence Party's birthday, congratulations on that, 90 years, and may then be able to communicate with him the message that it is quite terrible to say that it should be cramed through the council. Now I don't know if these two gentlemen sitting here in the side room have all these things on the record that are getting in our way. I'd appreciate it if they came in here and told us if they're completely carefree of the problems we've already pointed to down here and there, both on administrative notices and on other matters. [[Up front.]] - There's a find that I noticed the presence of these fine men, but I hope it doesn't interfere. A senator I'm opposed to. Mr. President. The more and more we discuss this matter, the more we see it, the more difficult it is to do it. No matter what caution is given, they just shrug their shoulders. [[The president calls.]] I can't shrug over the future of my children and grandchildren. I just can't. I don't understand this position, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u448	The president allows himself to remind you of that. Senators stick to the material in reply. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u449	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think I have led out here in a very clear way in my speech on what is being discussed, but it may well be that I have to go on this one course or two more. Because I know it's the highest. The minister of the state I've called after coming to is not there, so I call it the highest. The president was a part of that. A member of the head of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, who is in this house, come here and explain the matter to us as she is its spokesman. Mr. President, by permission, she says in her later talk. of May 14, 2019: This understanding was put in place in the joint declaration of the European Commission to Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son of the foreign minister and Miguels Arias Cañetes of the European Commission, of March 20, the European Commission. The declaration stated that the current provision of the EU's third energy package would have no effect on Iceland's state of state over Iceland's energy resources and that the European Union's electronic cables and internal energy markets are totally restricted by the Icelandic government. That's what happens at this time, but after the induction, it doesn't. That's right. These statements are not random, Mr. President. That's right. I don't think these ambassadors and ambassadors and commissaries of the European Community have deposed themselves on the levels of power there for being fools. That's a long road away. I'd like Mr. President to share in explaining this to the officials of the case and to the responsible authorities. If the man responsible for the jury, the highest. The minister of state, cannot come here, let the messenger of the matter and explain his words in this speech in view of what I have submitted to the European Economic Area and the current Parliamentary arrangement and is being discussed at this meeting and have been for some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u450	Mr. President. I may first be accused of taking such a false step. I don't think I've gone outside the material in my previous answer. Rather, I built it up by suggesting that it would be a good idea to have more people in the hall who could tell us about what is just distracting us like that. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson did so well in this answer. The releases are a source of anxiety. First of all, the warnings disappear and are not found. Second, there are vague statements and vague goals of pushing ahead of you a legal problem to some year's future. I admit, Mr. President, I'm kind of more and more concerned about this matter as we discuss it more and more information is coming into our arms. That's what I have to say. I feel worse about this situation every day. However, there is extra power in this case that all of this discussion, which is very good and accurate, explains to us who are in the field and even in the side rooms what is missing that it is as it should be done. It's so far from it, Mr. President, it's over now as it should be. That is why we need to get much better involved and try to explain it better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u451	The president just wants to make a decision that the counter will be directed to a speaker and not to anyone else. The president sensed it. 3.m. That's the north side. Showed some signs of wanting to respond, but they do not consider it to be an answer. A panel takes into account the words of a president from earlier times and makes quick use of the answers. Admittedly, it has become known, and it has been discussed extensively in the seventh tens of hours. But if you do. A senator wishes to respond will be authorized.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u452	Mr. President. Thank you very much. President for allowing me to give an answer, if I didn't give a clear sign. For the highest possible comment. Indeed, it has become quite clear what we have discussed today, that it does not result in some giving a reply to dissecting what is being discussed here, for it is seriously lacking, in all respects lacking that the members of the administrations who state the case are doing so. Actually, I hope so. A senator I'm going to ask this time will become his wish and to his wish. The chairman of the State Department is coming and responding to the groovy speech of the hour. A senator, but the man. A senator seems more interested in attending a so - called entertainment show tonight and ridicule other people there along with their friends. But hopefully there will be a change. Because talk like a dog. A senator brought here calls for questions, but it specifically calls for answers from the executives. Tip right. The senator's date, timing, is, in my opinion, a key factor in this and how he has led it out that it is taking place in real induction. But there is a definite wording - for it is like that. A senator rightly mentioned a problem - which I would like to ask him - clearly how they put things. A senator in. This is in the report and expected at the Parliament's resolution form itself, as it is said that cross-border laws are not being carried out. It's not said, "Don't go into effect." It is the preferred expression: not to be carried out. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that there's an explanation for this choice of words?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u453	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'm giving myself a quote to the council hearing that says, with the permission of the president: It is suggested that the General home of the Government to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA on the basis that no cross-border infrastructure is currently available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 to establish the energy market Cooperative Education Agency, is therefore inappropriate and does not have a reasonable relevance to the country's environment. This means quite clearly, and it will be put to the test before the judgment, and it will be brought to pass that, while he is not present, this is not the case; but when he is present, this is the case. The induction has occurred at that point. It has become national rights, and we are bound by national rights. There can be nothing clearer. I must say, Mr. President, that more members of Congress have spoken in the same way as before. A senator I quoted earlier. I insist that they come here and explain their words because of the talks given here at the outset. A statement was made here in a discourse that simply doesn't meet and doesn't apply to the Parliament's resolution and the European Economic Area and Regulation that follow Directive No. 72/2009.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u454	Mr. President. The reason why I take this sentence from one of the so - called advances is that the boundaries of a cross-border interface are not carried out, rather than saying that the law does not go into effect, is that it works. But what we are trying to indicate here is that this does not take effect, but they do not use that expression because they know that the induction will take effect. That is why, in fact, the warning is just a description of the obvious, that the cross-border structures are not being carried out while cross-border structures are not being built. It's all the same ringy shit. In fact, some executives have claimed that the defenses were unnecessary. They may be at a slight delay in their presentation, on the one hand, if they had already saved the case, which, in many cases, seemed to be having suffered. paritaprevir The Independence Party was very dangerous, but they no longer worry about the warnings, but others say that the warnings were really unnecessary, but they didn't have to be on notice. What I wanted to ask you. There are things I made up of earlier talkers, and I would like to get an opinion of them. That's what a senator does because he's put more into the original text than most. It is the fact that Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðum Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst note that the legal guardian must be the nature of the induction process that does not take effect. But the point is not clear. A senator was here to help us realize that it's not like that? [[The president calls.]] The induction will be valid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u455	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. He apparently seized the ball and understood it because it is not an accident in the opinion of these fine two scholars, who were just the scholars who were at the conclusion of the government, says on page 43 of Numbers. mg, by permission of the President: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. The 713/2009 recordings of the EEA Convention and introduces to the Icelandic rights in the form as unchanged - we need to take this back to the joint EEA committee and negotiate a change in this picture -- the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which would otherwise be agreed on by the Icelandic government. [...] There is no precedent for such power to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. This has been a great deal of detail that there are also tools for the execution of the two pillars by handing this power over to ESA, where ESAs are under the ACER, European Commission, and receiving an invitation to power from them. But there's one thing that's quite clear about the Power Institute in Iceland, after the change and the introduction of Directive 72/2009, that's up to this council, and on the council's list of issues, to accept a change in the law of the Power Institute, where we'll set them up from the Commission and make it a state of the state. I have to say, you know, it's amazing to get on a speaker's chair and compliment yourself on how well everything is worked and then have to chew it all up into people back. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u456	The president wants to emphasize and draw attention to the fact that he will turn that message away from what he says. A senator who showed up earlier. Furthermore, the president wants to emphasize that his statement about cutting back, not fully using an answer period, is presented with the assurance that freedom of speech, freedom of expression, or need to express itself. In addition, the president calls attention to the signs of light in the symposium. A red light means that a speech is over and the president wishes that people do not speak far into the red light. When the green light blinks, a speech is almost over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u457	Mr. President. I feel it necessary to say that earlier today, when we walked into the truth, it was done in a certain belief that we might be told how long this meeting should last. There's been nothing to argue with that kind of information. We're only making known because we may feel that there is a different basis from what was today when we discussed this with the president. It would be natural to know how long the president intends to continue a meeting, and then we can take this into account, as we did in front of us. Nor is it secret that the way the meeting has been held in the highest part of our life has become a source of great disappointment to us. A minister left, and this is how one another goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u458	Of course, the president is eager to ask that at one time men will respect the Congress laws and the spirit of the decision - making custom of the matter, especially now that we have considered this program a long and detailed matter, and the matter has become familiar at hand. Councilmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u459	Mr. President. The answers given in this discussion of the last popular sex are in line with the routine that has been observed here at the General Assembly. It is true that this discussion has become alcoholic, but it is reasonable to think that it has not disturbed the level of Congress because it is simply that we are having a meeting at a meeting where meetings had not been, as it has been today and yesterday and at night. We have not disturbed any other activities on the council that we have been meeting these nights because we, who have been present during this discussion, have been involved in our activities on committees, as well as spending nights and nights in the discussion. This number of respondents is in full agreement with the practice that has been held at the General Assembly in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u460	Mr. President. I accept what the president has said about sticking to the time of public speaking, and we will, of course, do so as much as possible. What we're doing here is that we're trying to solve this gravely serious matter. Because I know it's the officers of the government in a house, I have to ask for it at the highest level. He is taking part in his family and attending a assembly meeting. Of the other things, I'd like to point out that this has been spoken for a while. 70% of the discussion, which has lasted over 70 hours, has been held at night or outside of standard meeting times so that it can be shaken into the claim that other members of Congress are inclined by it. I wish, Mr. President, to be called into this discussion as a responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u461	The president makes it clear that all members of the Parliament can be aware of the challenges before the end of the council. At this time, there are busy members of the council, and there is an all - out increase in meetings even to the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u462	Mr. President. I was going to respond to the highest words. Minister of state when I asked him about his legal notice. I'll wait for the printing of a speech at the highest. A minister on this matter, but the answer was that he referred to the committee's opinion of a greater part of the State Department, as I heard, so I'm going to build my case on it in this speech. The priorities of the introduction of a third EU energy directive, as presented here for its introduction, were to be replaced by a legal basis on the European Union's link to the electricity system. So it was said in some way materially, that the decree would be introduced but legally noted. Then began this search of him, where he might be found, as I have described here in the previous speeches, one two. People have only been asking me what legal matters are, and they're confusing this with a administrative warning we've discussed here. That's a different thing. The European Commission, the European Commission, provides a administrative notice if it seems that national legislation needs to be changed within the country during the implementation of EU directives or regulations. But that's different. We're talking about what the government introduced when this case was presented, that it would be programmed but legally noted. When it was presented in this way, all defenses fell down within the board of directors. Then all the defenses fell down at once, and the rulers of the council, who have made their stand, fell from opposing the matter, and thought to support it. I suppose, without my idea of it, some of them did it because it would be such an excellent idea to do it legally in advance, which it could possibly be. Then, on May 15 this is asked from four o'clock, off course. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isoffress, will be very few on the board of directors, and they will answer, but the answers are very misleading. I've been trying to map them, and I've been trying to find out where this warning was, this legal warning. The first thing I could think of was a search in the planned legislation, which was just part of the assumptions that came. This was called a long - term school play because of this, of course, due to the lack of agreement, the management team. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs arrived earlier today and informed us that the warning was found in a committee party, probably a committee party. Department of Foreign Affairs, the majority of the committee's home. I took that opinion, and with the permission of a president, I will read a text on page 20. 4: In view of this and in any doubt at all, the Council Decision is referred to as Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009, which will establish the ACER, will be set up by legal notice... ... [which] turns to the building blocks that make it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the grounds of the Regulation. What does that mean? Will they review Regulation 713? Who will? Government? Will they ask for a review in Europe? It's impossible to understand. I will continue my next talk - and they smile, they smile.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u463	Mr. President. I'd like to hear thoughts later. The senator on this: already the highest. The minister of foreign affairs proposes a judicial arrangement that plainly states, on page 24. 2◯3, for a management officer to be put in place, it is that a government manager is not put on the induction of his ships unless they are in conflict with Iceland's Constitution, No. 33/144, and it is specifically stated in the synopsis proposal that this is the reason, verse 21. the constitution [[It's a law.]] I'm gonna read this to you. A senator who brings in my speech: ▪ The Icelandic government has only made governmental plans when making a decision called for a national legal adjustment, which in this case leads to a 21st degree. The constitution to gain approval by the General Assembly should be agreed before the decision is established. In the report by the New Testament scholars, Stefánsson Motorsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst, a reference is made to the republic's constitution, No. 33/197: The determination of the joint EEA committee to pick up the third energy package in the EEA deal from May 5, 2017. The decision is still restricted to administrative notices on the part of Iceland. - Because of this thing. With President's permission, I'll try to be quick: If the third energy package is introduced here on the country, the ESA will be at 8 par. The Regulation has the authority to make decisions on conditions and conditions for access to cross-border infrastructures such buildingors as this land. Such ESA decisions may include Please note that transport capacity is distributed between electricity companies and user users in this country and elsewhere in the EEA region, as well as other aspects affecting the basis of cross-border structures. [[The president calls.]] - There's another place in the EEA, they're making decisions. Counts 'em out. Senator I'm on the right track here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u464	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the question. So we'll continue with the warning, i.e. The legal person then says in the opinion of the committee that I was reading, and I continue with that, that these cross-border structures will not be built or planned, by permission of the president: ... except that the exception of a review of the law on the grounds of the Regulation. Then I'll ask you what regulations? The European Union's rules? I guess, though, I'm not sure, and its cross-border connections laws are not to be carried out until this review is completed. In other words, we plan to wait for the European Union to review this Regulation, No. 713/2009? Is that the alarm? Am I supposed to believe that? If such a review is made, it would be done by the Generals to determine if the induction conforms to the Constitution. Here comes the raisin in the hot dog end. Then it is Generalis to determine if the induction is compatible with a constitution. In other words, the introduction of the Regulation, which is in doubt as to whether a constitution, should be determined long thereafter whether the Regulation is in accordance with the constitution. This is totally incomprehensible. It's all in a circle. It's in such a mess, and it's no wonder that governments have been lost many times here. It's such a ring. There's no hope that any member of the management team will understand this, but I hope that there are experts there who can explain it to make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u465	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, I think we're totally set, and I agree with that. A senator, of course, that there's something we can't say. This is clear - and there is no need to go to the council of Congress and interpret some words there - of the evidence of the matter, of the Congress decree itself and the documents and the documents at its height. The Foreign Affairs Commission has enclosed and proposed to us members of the Parliament to make the decision, that if we are to live up to our vows and comply with the Constitution of Iceland, it is impossible, no matter what we think of the European Union or international cooperation or whatever it may be, for us to accept this body of Congress as unchanged. I don't know how to put it in words, Mr. President, or how I can humbly ask that the President - who is the Speaker of All Congress, is not the director of this case for the head of the management board or for the government of Iceland, he is the Speaker of the Council - is a part of the matter to be postponed and that we take the time to make a thorough and thorough examination. If ever there was a need, Mr. President, now is the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u466	The President's compliments. Councilmen for keeping the deadlines with high regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u467	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the questions. I was discussing this legal advance and had pointed out how strange it would be to intend to wait for a review of the European Commission Regulation, No. 713/2009, if it was really where the dog was buried, people were going to wait for it. We're ingesting it now, we haven't brought it in yet. Is that what they're waiting for? Do you understand? But I'm going to go on because I asked the highest. Secretary of State on this legal advance and mentioned whether a Regulation was published in the Iceland Board of Directors, i.e. The Council of Industrial Ministers, which, of course, is anything but the European Regulation - these two are not to be confused, absolutely not. It's like comparing a truck to a Matchbox truck. He didn't answer, and he didn't deny that it was a decree published by the traveling, industrial, and innovation minister. I'm giving myself the chance that it might be, we might have found this legal warning in that Regulation, which is a warning in Article 3. - This is a Regulation that hasn't been published, but I've been given her orders and I intend, by the permission of a president, to read: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009 with regard to electrical connections between countries not being carried out in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Maybe it's the front line. He may be found in a Regulation published here in Shadowtown, made up of the Ministry, and drove into a desk at the highest level. Minister - the plan is to sign it, and there is a legal court at the introduction of the European Commission Regulation, 400◯500 million people of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u468	Mr. President. First only with the words of a president earlier, because we don't want to abuse the President's conference board, about the fact that this discussion has been under way for some time. It may be that someone in this room is well recommended, but I'm going to inform the president that we middle-class people are getting messages from people outside the house and from other places, including the U.S.A. From the common groups and others, not to give up in the struggle to improve the situation. We have a responsibility toward the people of the country, which is 62 percent against this matter, according to a recent survey, so we will continue to fight for the full extent of our ability to improve this matter. I was going to give a whole different speech, but I'm going to do it right now because it's because I see that in the side room there's no other voice. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who has sometimes been with us in the gym. I've kind of been waiting for him to be in the field so I can talk to him about a place to talk about. A year ago, a very good interview was made. A senator in RUV, who expressed his concern about a pack of three energy. He says that he wants to consider if Iceland remains part of the European Union's energy policy work because he fears that the European energy system could prevent energy resources from being used here to make Iceland a contribution of 2040. There is little reason to believe that both the Independence Party and the forward party had approved a fraud, but the VG had not approved. I'd like to quote at least now. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, by permission of President: I'm going to make a lot of people, and I'm going to make a lot of notice. Not only the contents of this third energy package in the European Union but where we really go in this pan-European energy system as a whole. He says that there is uncertainty about legal and political influences. And it's noticed by the good stuff. Senator, with permission from the President: He says that members of Congress must settle the matter. It cannot be expected that the council will cancel without careful reviewing it. That's exactly what we've been trying to do, Mr. President. We've been working to cover this matter thoroughly, just as well as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé wanted us to do a year ago. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Go on says: The third energy package was recently adopted in the Norwegian Parliament. - May I pray to the highest. Mr President to make sure that I'm not disturbed by a dissident. In fact, there were conflicting opinions. The labor movement was on the way out of the way -- and the group of VG's sisters, the Social Left Party, voted against him in the same way as the VG was against the first and second energy packets of the European Union. But now the left green has completely changed the gear and are pioneers in the market of Iceland's energy resources. I thought I wouldn't live that day, Mr. President. Then it says why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, by permission of the President: Obviously, this will have an effect, no matter whether we approve or reject. Therefore, whatever the decision may be, it is important that it be handled on a professional basis and that it will be given a time to go over it. It's like talking out of my heart, Mr. President. And this is exactly what we've been trying to do, the middle party members, in this discussion, to fulfill wishes before. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér said that this matter will be treated as successfully as possible. That's what we intend to do, and I expect it to be. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is worth it to us that we are fulfilling his wishes in this regard, that it is not the race to do anything but go through this huge case, as he correctly pointed to it a year ago. [[The president calls.]] But if he had come here to interview me on this matter, it would be best for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u469	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator in particular for this information. One of the things we have been trying to do in this discussion is to hear the viewpoint of those who expect us to accept this matter. And then I hear the reading loud and loud. A senator may have some members in the management team who could simply take it down compared to what was left behind. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. It would be no less beneficial to present such views. The problem is that governments and their ensuers do not show up to explain their case. The only thing that comes out of the side room is the caller of the gate. They don't even dare to come into the room to speak for themselves. Yes, there are some, I don't want to use too strong expressions, gross statements in the media, now last of all. The head of the State Department on a show now called an entertainment show, but it is largely assumed that a group of friends meets and slanders other people. In view of the problem. A senator, however, managed to give us a glimpse of the situation at least in some members of the left - motion team, a green supply, can be agggravated. A senator wondered how we can get these people to express himself? Is there anything we can do for these people so that they will come and participate in this discussion? If we promised to make ourselves very polite, as we have been in this discussion all along, or if we even allowed people to speak without an answer if they are afraid of an answer. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A member of the body of elders has some ideas about how we can get people to explain their language?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u470	Mr. President. I wish I could say what. A senator that I could do that. On the other hand, when I gave my final talk, I was trying to get some sleep. paritaprevir Sir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér to deal with me in word, he just went off course, and I saw underneath his feet. I now believe, Mr. President, that I have been very polite in my last speech, I made every effort to be it whether it has succeeded or not. But I simply finished this fine interview with this fine man. A senator and I agree with him, and we're the middle-class people. We then agree with him in what he says, that whoever the decision will be made on a professional basis and that it will be given time to go over it. That's the point. The decision we're making is so big, this case is so big, and it really does have a lot of effect. You're absolutely right, and then you're gonna get by this nice old wuss. A senator, actually a year ago, and a week ago, it's a long time in politics. It may well be that he changed his mind or that something had changed his mind for him or for him had caused him to turn his mind completely around in this regard. In fact, the interview made it clear that both the Specialist Party and the Independence Party had given specific conclusions about the energy package - they actually walked behind their words, but I may be better able to review it in the second answer. But, hey. A senator asks if these good people can be made to express themselves. After what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé Proppe's son ran away after I had turned to him by special words friendly, I am more afraid of it than at first that it is difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u471	Mr. President. This case has sometimes reminded me of the story of Caesar's new outfit. Here came a member of the government, and perhaps no less of the leading fans of this case, members of the synagogue, and members of the council, giving much praise to the emperor's outer garments. On the other hand, it seems that two masks are starting to slide on them. Congress officials, since nothing has happened to them or their views has lasted a long time. The more you discuss the discussion, the more they are drawn into the shell. Although it is not customary to give special commendation to other classes, I will take a little risk in my inquiry to do so. A senator asks if he can agree with me that in support of the Independence Party, there is an enormous number of powerful, honorable, and trusted princely people. It's not for good reason that I ask about the particular group, tomorrow he celebrates his 90th birthday. Gives you what? The members of the party are expected to have the opportunity to meet their members. The question is, is why. A senator agreed on my evaluation of large groups of members of the Independence Party, the voters of the party, that there are very many princely members found there? Does he hope that tomorrow they will be able to point out to his advisers that the emperor is negligent?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u472	Mr. President. Yes, I know very much of a princely, trusted independence people, most likely of the group that was called the old tradition. They are honest people who still believe in the values of the Independence Party, do justice, do not tolerate injustice and class, and all of this. But I can remember that today, but that may be because I felt the highest. The minister of state is so brief that I suggested to him that it was a good idea, because the party is now 90 years old tomorrow, that he would give it on his birthday to postpone this case until autumn and go over it better. He took it very lightly. But I'm hoping that when he mixes tomorrow up in Valhalla with these good people that we're talking about right here, over coffee and cake, he might get more straight into the vein, if we can put it that way, this worry and dissatisfaction that I've become of this broad member of the Independence Party that doesn't know his party for the same class as before. There's something since I've met e.g. Excited VG supporters, but I look forward to meeting them and going with them over what did the left movement offer to this marketing group that wants to market energy resources in Iceland just once. It's so big a reversal that I'm actually even more excited to hear about it than this, although I didn't speak to the fine independent groups I've met and have expressed their concerns and disappointments with their party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u473	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, and I must say, I am very grateful for the many senators who have described them here as having doubts. I am truly grateful for those members of the council who have described it, whether they may be involved in media or communication media, that they have had doubts about the induction of a pack of three for whatever reason it might have been. They have been listed, environmentally or legally, or if they had any other roots. It simply tells me that at least those senators took note of the matter and that they had no assurance that this journey could be taken unless they considered the matter further. It is a group of councilmen who have come here and said that they were skeptics but that they were convinced with the reasons that have been proposed in the administrative work to be capable of the way. But maybe a man has to be a lawyer. Perhaps the presentation needs to be better at the premise. Because I am not surprised that at first it may seem that it can work out. But if you dive deeply into what is being discussed, Mr. President, you will find that not. Well, maybe. A senator expressed his opinion on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u474	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with that. A member of the council that has been very faced by members of Parliament describes his doubts. In fact, they have not described how their activity changed and what led to their conversion. But I have heard both men as well. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon and what. paritaprevir The remains of Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, who described a lot of doubts about this matter of Congress but has now joined his party. In other words, they've been beaten into rhythms, as you say. And much so, it is natural for every man to change his mind. This is the way of wise men, when they were told once. But I have to admit that now that we have been here and analyze this matter in these days and days, I say to myself, " If I had ever been lame under this issue, it would have changed now with the conversations that have been here, because it has been revealed that this case is not all that seems to be the case. ' More and more, and even into this day, the matter is so ill prepared, quite ill prepared. And then there's a foreign minister, and he doesn't know anything about this and/or he doesn't want to answer it. That's not reassuring, Mr. President. Therefore, I am more surprised at the sound of integrity. Congress officials have changed their minds and joined their companions and wanted to support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u475	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This case is as growing as it is, and it certainly is, so this has been a long time for this discussion. But I believe it may crystallize here again and again that the time has been well spent. Mr. President. Surely we, the High Council, would want to do something wrong if we were to know what is right. You can't blame people for making mistakes if they don't know better. It can't be done, and I judge no one for making a mistake because it was a mistake or because people don't know better than that they are doing the right thing. The other is more serious, Mr. President, if you act deliberately and against better judgment, because you are subject to the Council's Directive of Iceland's resources and authority and are specifically quoted in Article 21. Iceland's constitution, which is law No. 33/144. That's for good reason. This is about the resources. This is about the constitution. It's shown in the synopsis proposal. On that basis, let us associate with the decision being asked to be made here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u476	Mr. President. You see, that's the point. It's not that we've stood here and had this deep, nice discussion. If these discussions were so meaningless or worthless, I don't believe that all the good people who have observed them outside the house, much more than the senators in a house, would sit and watch all night, or fill a platform if the conversation was so deadly and stupid and stupid. Nor do I recall in my brief hours here at the General Assembly that all council members have been put in almost all night. But that has happened now. The importance of the discussion may come in the way men such as presidents of VR, Ragnar Ingólfsson, and Vilhjálmur Birgisson of Aklinai send out a complaint and tell us, "Don't stop. " Keep fighting. ASI was opposed, as noted in 70% of the reports that came to the Foreign Affairs Committee and Business Committee. According to a survey, 62% of the people are opposed to this issue. These are people who call for us and cause us to continue this struggle. This is not one of our personal battles here in the hall at any time, nor is there a means of great Central Party, though good, that it is just because there is a call for careful review of this matter and not making decisions that cannot be made. Therefore, this matter has to be postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u477	Mr. President. Earlier tonight, we received a visit from the highest level. Secretary of state. We had been calling for the highest. The minister answered some of the many points, and preferably all who have been present in this discussion. Thus, at the highest point, we were disappointed. A minister moved, the time he stayed here, on one side, his old talk points from the Ministry, and then he answered questions to those who asked him, with almost one noise. I would have thought it was already the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, the man who made this suggestion, was finally found, and came to the country, made the discussion a better understanding than it did. This was especially strange to me, considering that the highest one. When I left the country in public business, as well as in practice, I was greatly missed by a minister. Chairman of the General Assembly Department of State. He didn't seem to miss the Chairman of the Committee as much, but he missed me very much. Yet, here was a tremendous substitute for me at that time, Shrimp Sigmundsson. After we'd missed the best. For days and nights, I was beginning to believe that he would honor the council and give the many points that have come up in this discussion. But no, it wasn't. In fact, he continued with his theory that the opposition to the third energy package was a conspiracy, out of the roots of some Norwegian people, and then he redecorated the old stories or blog transfers of Björn Bjarnason's interest in the fixing of a sea cable and wanted to mean that I had had been somewhat interested in such things, which he would not be able to point out in any way. But about that. One of the things to be tried was to ask the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was the key question why the government was not prepared to use the regulations in the EEA agreement itself to put the matter into this so-called reconciliation. The Convention assumes that if there is a conflict or an opinion that states believe that there is a compromise, it can be returned to the EEA joint committee and resolved there in a way that everyone can respond well to it. I would have thought that this was a law that would have been used in this situation and that might have been used earlier, perhaps had been useful in other matters of opinion. But by saying that using this provision brings up some sort of solution, even putting the EEA Convention at risk, the directives are being undermined, thereby weakening the contract and our chances of taking advantage of what is so positive of it, this policy of reconciliation, in terms of the release of future subjects. The only thing highest. The minister mentioned what this was about was the opinion of Carl Baudenbacher, who came to mark, after the government had decided not to send the case to the joint of the EEA committee, but to a lower level. It can be concluded that this was called a follow - up rather than the opening explanation of the government's decision. But what did Professor Dr. Baudenbacher say? Yes, he spoke of the people of Iceland being loyal to the Norse. But he also said, and this was released in the government summary, that bringing the case back to the joint EEA committee would not cause any harm. But for some reason, the highest choice. A minister to overlook, of course, the claims of Carl Baudenbacher, but instead tried to adjust his opinion as a stream of fear, would likely agree that the Icelanders had to be loyal to the Norwegians, even though they considered the Icelanders to follow fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u478	Mr. President. Thank you. A very good speech for a senator, whose language is very clear and accessible, understandably, what is underneath. You see, Carl Baudenbacher's opinion was simply new, and I'm going to allow myself to say here in the General's symposium, to speed things up by highlighting certain points of his opinion that were political and potentially protected the European Union's approach in political terms, i.e. how you might react to a relationship to put pressure on a subject. Political pressure is not legal. Political pressures can manifest themselves in various ways. But it's okay. We can really mean him. But the most important thing is the legal basis, that it is solid. If we did not keep him under our feet, they are likely to be rewarded on the path of life. And it will be easier, with political pressure, to strip off our legs in due time. I think there's a why. paritaprevir If we take the steps in legal uncertainty, it will be easy to put political pressures on Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson. And political lobance is part of the declaration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u479	Mr. President. At the end of the question. A senator came to my senses regarding a new point when he mentioned the interaction between the legal laws, which, though at times, can be difficult to understand. A senator explains them better than most, and then the political pressures that follow on their basis. I think it's an occasion for my speech, and that's why I hope it is. A senator respects it to me that I do not defend the answer to analyze it. But this is the perfect key. What I wanted to do, however, is to take the time to answer about Carl Baudenbacher. Because I know him well and would call him my friend. He's a brilliant lawyer and a brilliant lawyer and he's now an independent, active counselor. But we're not political partners, me and Carl Baudenbacher. I would now have thought that advanceers and independents did not consider him to be their political allies, especially in Europe. How strange it is, then, that they have chosen just him to write a report, such as the dog! A senator mentioned, in fact, political. But I have a new theory about this report, and I intend to back it up. Despite not being on our political lines in Europe, Carl Baudenbacher is a great Iceland friend. He knows the Icelanders. He knows how they think and what works on them. I believe all odds that Carl Baudenbacher deliberately set up the case in the way he did, to speak e.g. I believe that the Norwegians saw the Icelanders as their escorts and that they should be loyal to the Norwegian people. I think he knew exactly what the response would be to the Icelanders. I think Carl Baudenbacher did us a great favor, at the highest rate. The minister of foreign affairs failed to recognize his assessment of Baudenbacher's report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u480	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Because I know why. A senator has worked closely with Carl Baudenbacher and knows him well, I will not doubt that I could hold onto this theory. There are personality traits in the nation that come back and forth under certain circumstances, as they do in us as individuals. As to Carl Baudenbacher's opinion, he was just Iceland's adviser on the joint EEA committee when this decision was made. This is indicated by his opinion. It is noteworthy that what he recommends as a legal and possible way of applying it does not result in a sum-up opinion, as well as a high opinion. But because we are made that way, we naturally feel that the summary contains everything that really matters. But the important thing in the opinion of Carl Baudenbacher is that he specifically states that those who are opposed to the induction of the energy package, and if Iceland appreciates it, if it is able to return to the joint EEA committee and try to negotiate new or other adjustments, especially with respect to Regulation 713, and, in fact, the whole energy package. He concludes his conclusion on the words, in English, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ What do you think do not cause grief? Or, it would be indiscriminate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u481	Mr. President. I believe that the sum of the sums made a minister give much more information about the results the minister wanted than the whole report. It's interesting if we think about it when the State Department called for Árni Stefánsson and Friðriksson Hirst to send an additional letter to make a decision. But I also noticed how that letter was spoken. There they go in no way against what they had said before. They do not violate the basic standard, which is obvious to me, especially after heeding the Regulation's policy. The senator, so called, should resist the warning that the induction would not be effective. But like a dog. A senator has made such an outstanding account of speeches, not what is going on here. They're being introduced. Then there are gathered up some of the so - called warnings that began here some nights ago and days after the incident. paritaprevir Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson asked why. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson's son, where the warning was to be found. Then they went looking. The search continues, and now the member of the Middle Party, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, has taken over the cylinder and has been awakened and fallen asleep looking for these warnings. But they haven't yet been found. But the night is young.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u482	Mr. President. I wanted to talk to you about what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, thanking him for his speech. I was going to talk to him about administrative notices as we Iceland's put together with the EEA committee when it was decided to attempt to introduce the energy directive and everything that comes with it, in Icelandic rights. Many, and especially members of the board, have considered it delirium and therefore repeatedly refused to send the case back to the treatment of the joint EEA committee. That is why I'd like to discuss further the warning we set as a nation when we agreed to aim for the introduction of the package. On the basis of what is referred to - or may it be called fear? - is to indicate that the Council considers it to be in the use of the administrative alert and to refuse the case and the following treatments of the European Economic Area Convention at 103 and 102. g., starting treatment for the joint EEA committee, will include the resignation of the EEA Convention. And that's not a good way. If that's the attitude, then the Allied is to admit, I'm asking if. A senator agrees with me, that the administrative guardian we put is of no significance. What is he for if, by this reaction, he is appointed to accept that he is of no significance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u483	Mr. President. I'm worried about this, and I think it's the right food. It simply leads one by one. If you think it's a formal request for what is said to be already being done, you will cause such resistance, such a reaction, that it puts the EEA deal at risk, you can hardly believe that your own approach carries some real effect. Otherwise, it would clearly be a simple matter, sending the case to the joint EEA committee and getting it done there. Why? Why would humans do this in this strange way - without condemnation, without meaning - and claim that these are warnings and that they think they are? If we take these notices into the joint EEA committee, we can all go wrong and we can just upset the deal? It won't keep any water. But there are other concerns I am concerned about in this context. I'm worried that if you approach things like this, they're in a way to destroy the 102nd. and thus ruining the EEA Convention; by the government claiming it is dangerous to use 102.g. and taking advantage of this arrangement of reconciliation can anger you so much that the contract explodes - with such a lawsuit - is beginning to weaken and make it more and more difficult to use in the future. Surely we will need to make more use of this provision. Then it's not good that our clients can refer to the fact that the Icelandic government has said that the use of this law is the same thing that upsets the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u484	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For good reason, Davíð, a son of Gunnlaugsson, decided not to go this way when it is really a governmental concern as to whether anything in a directive or in a regulation that is to be introduced contrary to a constitution. They don't have the guts. So, as we have seen in this matter, men reject the fact that it sets the worst example ever. A senator talked about it. And they also agree that this has never happened in the 25-year history of the contract. Is it reasonable to say that it was never done and that we're not going to do this now? But then some government senators come to a speaker's barber, galvahs, chefs of great courage, and say: We will certainly do this if there is a need. This reasoning is not working out by the government. It doesn't make sense. Why, then, is it always being put in advance? They are absolutely unnecessary if they are never ever going to use what they offer, and the terms of the agreement offer a reason. There's only a legal way out of the deal. What should be the point of any nation's concern about making an advance when it comes to negotiations? Do I agree with a senator in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u485	Mr. President. That is exactly how using it strengthens our resolve. The argument that we cannot or should not use the law because it has not been used for 25 years - what do they tell us about what would be expected if after five years a great deal of opinion arose? It would be said: We cannot use the law because it has not been used for 30 years; even more so, according to this estimate. We need to use this law now, both in the nature of our case and in order to apply it, to keep it in shape, to make it known and to be respected, to use it. This would greatly strengthen our position regarding all kinds of future events that will come to us through the EEA Convention. But saying, "We Icelanders don't have the guts to use the terms that the contract guarantees us the treatment of reconciliation and an adequate conclusion for all, it is a clear message to the European Union that we will use them for everything that comes out of it. And in view of the way the European Union is developing and moving uphill, such as No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The secretary of finance has described so well, both in the conference and in the interview, we need to apply these regulations and show that it is active and that the Icelanders are participating in the EEA agreement on an equal basis. We do not have side effects, we are not added fish that need to be treated properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u486	Mr. President. I'm just going to go back to a few times where the search for legal warnings was gone. I had a little left to finish my tour. I've come to a Regulation or a draft of regulations intended to be published by the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. It's been pointed at, and the highest. The minister of state did not deny earlier today that the legal warning was found in that Regulation. He did not deny it, so I'm going to do a little research on whether this legal agent, if that is, would last. Whether he has any value in this matter. The point is, we are implementing the EU energy directive, the third in a row. If legal command is made by the secretary... I've got it figured out, and I've already read from Article 3. I'm going to read some of it again, with the permission of a president: Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, with infrastructure across borders, the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council (EC) No. 713/2009, which does not work in Iceland. This means that the European Commission and the Regulation do not implement it in Iceland, while such a connection has not been established. The Regulation is currently not valid. We have heard this before. - and review of the administrative law on the grounds of the Regulation. A review of the administrative basis for the Regulation? It can hardly be meant by this Regulation, it is simply published in the Ministry. It is written in some of the rooms there, and then men enter a minister, and he signs it and publishes it like every other law that's published in a lot of mass dating in the Ministry. Almost every day, I think, new regulations come out on everything, dog maintenance and stuff. This is a minor species of government regulations, regulations in Iceland. The law is much more valuable or higher, if you can use that word, because they go through a certain process here at the General Assembly, through three discussions, are accepted, the president is signing and that's a law in the country. These regulations are of far less importance. They're just examined at the Ministry, possibly presented to the government, if their powers are enough to do so, and then they'll sign a minister under it. The rules are published. Then it goes into effect. It applies to the information it is relevant, which is often smaller developments on some matters of law. It just cannot be, Mr. President, that this law contains this legal issue. First of all, it's not a law, it's a law. It will only be changed by one piece of pen to the Ministry. It can hardly be, and I refuse to believe that this is the only legal one, even at the highest. Secretary of State hasn't answered my question about whether or not they've found him there. Just before I finish this, I'm going to talk to you about words in the Commission opinion as the highest. The minister pointed out. I already read it. I'm not going to repeat it. It speaks of the design of shallow functions as not to be constructed or planned unless the exception of a review of the legislation on the scope of the Regulation and its terms relating to cross-border connections. In due course, the Regulation should be reviewed. The rules are set out in Europe. She set it up in the Council of Europe and the Council. Then she goes to the EEA committee and she's approved there, and she's fully introduced and even takes years to implement it. So I don't believe that in the future, people are going to revise this directive somewhere in Iceland. I don't believe it. Will anyone postpone asking whether this Regulation is in opposition to a constitution, in fact, that the legal advisers of the government have now claimed to be a great deal of doubt? I will continue my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u487	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. Two of our group have worked very closely with the lyrics and connections in this case, and they gave such pedestrian talks that I really believe that only those who listen to it are now infected and will be much closer than before about how this case is grown, how neglected it is, and how necessary it is to be postponed, only to be taken aside, and to take over more carefully to get the better treatment. I cut by it as I used to, to the what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason is first of all on the groundforests of lost models, and he has little to find them. But then there's what I've been wanting to call releasers or releases in this matter. First, the fact that this case is being introduced as a political arrangement that has two discussions and then no narratives, and then it will be sent to the government. Second, there are both the warnings that are not found and others, which unsolvedly relieve you of being half afraid that you will be approved now as it lies before you will be able to build a lawsuit for the trial. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he really thinks that we can get involved in lawsuits because it's not right in and out and if we're not in danger because we're so weak that we're in a certain state of recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u488	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question and the answer is: Definitely these warnings that we have been looking at, any person we may be entitled to, will fall like a gambling city if there is a conflict between the European Directive or the third energy package after the induction. He hasn't been brought in yet. But after induction, there will be some incident in this country, and there will be legal warnings, wherever they may be found. A protocol published by the Council of Management Board or any of the human declarations in Europe at some meeting, the EFTA countries, etc., no matter what mentioned mentioned, this would fall like a city of cards if there were a conflict between the requirements of the European Union's energy directive. Absolutely. I'd call it, if I may, Mr. President, a administratively hungry person, to introduce it in this way and on this weak foundation. To have some legal notice, which is very vague and does not hold back from this powerful act that we are enforcing and committed, after this decision has been made. Instead, they will carefully step down to the ground, using our contractual right to apply this again to the joint EEA committee, looking for a reserve, which I understand to be light-workd and lazy, in view of the declarations of these fine gentlemen in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u489	Mr. President. This is exactly what I've been afraid of. Senator, and I thank you very much for this answer. What scares me the most is that we're going to be stuck with some large account of these releases, which I would like to call, and be sentenced to damages, etc. ... becauseof this induction. That's what scares me the most. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is legally educated, such as, for example, The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson, the finest lawyer in Norway, whom I have quoted in my talks and will witness in the next talks. True, what he has said is a word of caution. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has been here and has done so before in this discussion. What I'm afraid of this is that we're going to be judged for this, and we're going to have to rely on damages, not a little thing. Then I'll ask why. A senator: Does he initially think that this could happen? Is there anything we can do to prevent that? Maybe we should, for example, like we were actually asking the highest. Minister of this day, to set aside this matter, and to consider it, until the autumn? Because in the autumn, there is also a date when the Norwegian Court addresses a case that is precisely appealed to the induction of the third energy package in Norway. We have considered that we will fully implement the directive before a decision is made by the European Court of Justice in Norway. But I ask again, Is there really a risk that we would be harmed? What can we do to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u490	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's a fine subject. Yes, I think it's a good thing to wait for a conclusion as to the value of the energy directive in Norway. I think that's a National Council, Mr. President. Regarding our quest for the uncertainty in which we are entering this process: If you introduce this rule, it will not be reversed. You can't just say, "Everything's fake, everything fake, later. " Because the induction has become. And as soon as some occurrences or cases arise in the future, whatever their nature, I don't know - this is true here; whether or not they have wondered about any political statements of man or of law, whether it is available here in Iceland, the material energy directive is in this country. I want to point 'em. A senator says there are a number of lawyers here at the General Assembly who are equipped to examine these matters carefully. There are no fewer lawyers within the board. But there are different kinds of cards. Of course, humans play cards that are given to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u491	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good talk, in which he aims to approach the subject in a balanced way and draws out the obvious, at any rate as I see it. In the discussion of the warning, which has become a major theme here after dinner break, they seem to be particularly subject to Regulation 713/2009, which deals with the basic structures of the cross-border, which in everyday terms are called sea cables here in Iceland. In his talk on April 9, The Watchtower. says the highest. Secretary of State, in the previous discussion on this, on permission of the president: In this relationship it is also very important to share a common understanding of the EU energy manager at the uniqueness enjoyed by Iceland in a common energy market. Also, the experts who have been consulted agree that the common understanding builds a strong foundation for the induction. Although the declaration does not have a direct legal influence, it does have a legal significance, and it shows that our parties have the same understanding as we do on the basis of the induction. But what is the basis for the induction? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u492	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson very much for the questions. Implementation of the European Parliament and the Council, No. 713/2009, is primarily about the cooperation of the Rapporteur in the European energy market and in the European Economic Areas following the implementation of this Directive in the European Economic Area. This Regulation contains several requirements, especially 8. Gr., but also 7 and 9. ... whichconvincedthe administration of the government's legal rights have seemed to be very uncertain whether to give power to an international agency and thus violate the Constitution. This process is beginning to be completely unchanged, I accept it, even though there are substantial doubts and there is a serious risk that the Constitution is violating the legal requirement. It's legalized. Therefore, Mr. President, it is so important that the legal arrangement is revealed. Since they have been informed what value - this question we have asked many times, and especially: What is the national value of this legal advance? That's basic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u493	Mr. President. That's it. That's it. Once the legal guardians have been identified, they are to be placed in two legislators - laws on the one side and laws before the council - to the national rights. During the implementation of the protocol, the implementation of Directive No. 72/2009, together with the regulations provided in the energy package 713 and 714 and 715/2009, does not represent the introduction itself, these regulations gain legal values in this country and submit to national rights, as I understand the case. It makes it possible that even if it does not have a sea cable and that the premonition defended that the Allied Council of Iceland should make that decision, the Allied Council obligates itself to follow this induction, this decision, because we are committed to national rights. That is exactly what the matter is about when it comes to the constitution. What's left to do here won't be taken back. But we could settle down with a bill for that for a long time from now on. What are meditations? A senator about my theory?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u494	Mr. President. I told them earlier that even if lawyers were, they needed to play cards they received. In this case, the cards are devoid, a mere low level. It's tough when you get that kind of hand. In this case, it is obvious - the presentation is in a way that they have shown the game - that the drums are few. That's why there's so little answers. That's why the paint is so hairy. That's why he's so conflicting, e.g. Just about the legal warning. That's because they have a low hand, choose not to answer, go around running around, let go of a lot of questions because they have such a weak hand, even if lawyers are. That's why there's a sadness in the argument. He is not as luxuriant as we have been trying to talk about and point out, with the legal warning. He's very ill, Mr. President. Very sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u495	Mr. President. I was going to continue my review of the opinion of Eyjólfur Ármannsson. But we had a visit today from the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs, in which he made a great deal of the fact that the good attorneys, the Friðrik of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán-Mur Stefánsson, had been courted by a letter that they had previously published for the Ministry of State. So it seems that at the time they handed their position by letter, and the Ministry of State got the results they liked better, Friðriksson Áfriksson Hirst Wriksson went to interview at the ml.is, April 10, U.S.A., and it says: It can be reasoned that there is a greater legal uncertainty in the way the government intends to conduct a third EU energy package than if the Council refused to accept the energy package by not subtracting controlled warnings for it. There's the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst of the YearEyjólfur Ármannsson, as I've read before. Go on says: ◯Friðrik claims that when asked for a legal assurance, the U.S.A. does not really consider the consequences of what it would have been if the General refused to subsidiary warnings for the third energy pack. However, this could lead to political uncertainty. I've said here several times, I think, in these discussions, that, of course, we are not very comfortable with being legally confused about this matter. On the other hand, political uncertainty is what we possess every day. We should know, and we should be able to handle it, if we dare. Go on, with President's permission: However, a third energy package was not requested by the European Commission on the part of the Icelandic government, which could have been done at that time. However, the General may refuse to consent. We know that there may have been some mistakes at the time, but in itself it is not a matter of correcting them by reimbursement to the EEA Committee. It would be possible to ask for a legal advance, or extramarital, and thus take the initiative to get started. Go on, with President's permission: The government has decided to go this way, which, according to Friðrik, is saying that the opinions of the Constitution are actually postponed. That's what we've been doing here. He feels that this means that certain compromises are involved. However, sooner or later there will be a need to reexamine opinions relating to the Constitution. The Friðrik Árni warn that this way could mean that individuals or legislators would resort to a damage case against the Icelandic government if they felt that the Icelandic national law would not guarantee them the right they should enjoy under the EEA Treaty. He also says here, and now I am running out of time, that this political statement by the Guðlaugur Þórðarson and the European Commission might have some significance in Iceland but not be legally binding. He is finally asked if he knows a precedent for taking the way the government intends to go. Then, with the permission of the president, Friðrik tells us that there are no examples of this in the face of the matter. And when he's asked if Iceland's position could be weaker after taking control of the situation when it comes to ratings, he says, on permission of the President: Surely, then, we may be setting aside the possibility of asking for annuity on the basis of a common EEA committee. I think it is in itself that if you want to at the second point, they are potentially extremely limited once the government plan has been removed and the decision has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u496	Mr. President. That was very clear and understandable. A senator came to my attention when I heard him talking about legal uncertainty and political uncertainty on the other hand. When these two come together, there will be a series of multiple effects. This is certainly true in the case of the European Union and these European regulations in view of the objectives of the European Union. We've seen it happen time and again with a case that may be considered legal in one way that when the politics and goals of the European Union take place, the tendency is to interpret the laws in favor of the policy. It is particularly rich in European rights, which greatly regard the objectives of the legal process. In this context, we must consider that the more important it is that the law is clear, that it is legal, and right. Therefore, in this case in the third energy package, we can expect all legal doubts to be interpreted into the European Union and its objectives as described. We have even seen that since Iceland and I felt that there were no legal doubts, our goals have become stronger. So we must consider the physical world, the way things happen in the European Union, when we take a position on how we handle this matter. Well, maybe. A senator agrees with me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u497	Mr. President. At the beginning of the road, when we were starting this discussion, I looked at these two options. On the one hand, political risk would be a legal risk. Then I said, as I said in my speech earlier: We politicians are supposed to know how to handle political risks, we should be able to deal with it, etc. It's worse to deal with legal risks, lawsuits, and what this is all about. But then I started thinking more about it because of what I was doing. A senator said that when these two come together, there's a multiple effect. We are in exactly that danger right now, if we accept this matter as it is established. They say, "Well, it's not gonna happen unless the government, the General, approves of it. " This is what we are now throwing into an unscrupulous future. If we weren't lucky, we could get some Union government, a European government, which would be ▪ years old and flamme to excuse us, Mr. President - would be eager to connect a sea cable. There would have to be nothing very far off, except natural, if powerful groups such as the Central Party were to get even greater influence than today. But this is the risk. As it is suggested now, this risk is of two kinds, the legal which could end up in lawsuits, etc., as presented here, and the political factors that are involved in setting up some kind of crisis. The political risk that is spoken of if we were to return this matter to the joint committee - I must review the impact it would have in my second reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u498	Mr. President. The condition that lay before us. A senator describes what happens when a cable is laid, as it were, in a fine article - unfortunately, I can't even remember - taking a bottle of bottle into my home and saying: "It's okay to have this demon, because it's in a bottle. Then they asked: " Why, then, would I take the puzzle into my home? ' But I think that's exactly what you're talking about. A senator says, of course, there is a strong chance that a government would come and be interested in a cable. We can picture, from discussions on this matter, whether it would likely be for some senators to explain to us that it would be just isolationism not wanting a sea cable and that we would have to sell environmental energy abroad and take part in dealing with climate and all of this, all of which would be used. Then there may be some who might have a filibuster to try to stop a sea cable, even though we are, fortunately, in the position of not having to talk about it because there are just a lot of reasons, and there are many things we need to answer about. Yet, in addition to this danger, which is common. In view of what we have discussed, he cannot agree with it. Yeah. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Þórððdsson gave a very clear argument that there would be at least attempted by some interested investor to use the fact that the Icelanders have agreed to a third energy package to force ACER, the European Union Department of Energy, to push the case forward in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u499	Mr. President. It seems that several investors believe that soon there will be a change in the electricity market in Iceland. We can even see it. In the United States alone, rich people and foreigns are buying up lands and rights and also have plots to set up so - called windmill gardens in several places around the country. They would, in themselves, cost Iceland quite a lot because lines close to where people are now most considering these things are not the way they carry the electricity they would produce. When for that reason, it would cost a huge amount of money for an Icelandic nation to set up better line layers in these areas to carry, use benecid, use the electricity away, because it is not to be used in the country where it is understood. By electricity production, i.e. with wind and/or small inactivations where a large number of study permits has been released, the cost is higher than the amount of energy we produce today. Then you ask: " Who will buy this power higher price? Is it to be sold in a domestic market? Then you ask, because there is a great deal of government damage to energy exchange: Should the exchange of energy be paid at higher energy prices than in the country today? Second, there is the talk of massive gardening. Is the gardening plant supposed to pay an even higher power price than it is full of paying today? This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u500	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to go below. For a matter of concern, there is a candidate on page 6 of the Parliamentary proposal for a greater part of the State Department. It says, by permission of the president: Then the rule of the third energy package and the decision of the joint EEA Committee on adaptation and its recording in the EEA Convention does not involve the right to energy resources in Iceland. In this regard, it can be pointed to a factor of 125. The EEA Convention, which states that the contract has no effect on the terms of the holding rights of the contract. - Orders of property. - Then it will be presented in 2 mg. 194. gr. The European Union's Work Programme (SSEU) states that measures under the paragraph are under notice of the rightness of the Member States to determine the conditions of its energy sources being used, the energy sources it selects, and the general means for supplying energy. This is a clear distinction between ownership and utilisation. However, the number 5.1 of the same synonym is based on the implementation of Regulation 713 on ACER and the European Commission. The Commission is aimed at helping the Rapporteur, referred to in Directive 2009/72/EC and 2009/73/EC, in the application of authority within the European Economic Area and if necessary to coordinate the activities of the Rapporteur, which is in Iceland. The regulations stipulate the Agency's legal office. It's even mentioned here. to fill holes in the legislation. But what's the law on Iceland's energy policy? Does she exist? What are our resource regulations?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u501	Mr. President. In short, the energy policy does not exist, and the resource directives contain an image of damage. And what will happen then? Then, what we did last year becomes crystal clear is that we both have legal uncertainty and a lot of political uncertainty, which disappears and multiply. Here again comes the word we have used on the expedition in which this is being put: It's an uncertain journey. But, really, it's more than just an adventure. When you add, i.e. not to have the energy policy and the resource directives clear, it's beginning to look more like a Russian roulette, I have to admit. It's a game I don't like to play myself. But it's naturally very serious. It's becoming more apparent every day and every night we're here, and we've pointed out how badly the case is presented, how badly it's presented. It is always better to realize that it is absolutely necessary to delay the introduction of this Regulation, to take the matter only off schedule, to review it, to consider it, to fill up the holes, which are truly in it. Of course, we are to follow the advice of a man like Friðrik Hirst and Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. We're simply supposed to reject the energy package and test the reconciliation treatment of the joint EEA committee and get serious legal warnings on the European Union, introduce the package - and we have nothing to worry about, not a few. [[The president calls.]] But the government does not have the power to do so, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u502	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The reason I asked this question is because according to the regulations of this Regulation, i.e. Regulation No. 713/2009, is set up to fill the legislation's gaps, as I said in my previous answer, by permission of presidents of the EU field and contribute to the efficient activities of internal markets for electricity and natural gas. That. the European Union's inner market. We note that I am reading from the synonym proposal for more parts of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Agency shall allow national monitoring authorities to improve their cooperation in the EU ◯ - not the EEA, at the EU level - ▪ and to participate mutually in EU-related activities. But let us note that by then, after this induction, what has happened? The Enforcement Agency will then be taken from the European State's Commission, made independent of it so that it will not submit to political or legal agencies and have become independent. It is funded by the United States but is not subject to it and has the authority to enforce the regulations and imports of the European Union on common and integrated markets. This is the law that actually points to the fact that there is too open clearance for it to be counted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u503	Mr. President. That's the point, I'd say. You've said that a lot. There are many interconnections that work against Icelandic interests, and this is one of them. The Institute of Monitoring that lives in the Power Institute after the induction is actually just this institution, ACER, which is a direct messenger of Brussels. It doesn't mean anything to us or to some minister up in Arnölili to have any influence there, not a chance. This institution has e.g. The right to fine such amount of money, government finesse, that we have not seen anything like it. Many people sweat when they see government fines laid down by Contestance Institute under current law. They are funny, considering the amount of money involved in this relationship, billions of dollars. So there'll be an institution in this country, we'll pay the company but we'll have no control over it. Nothing. Brussels has everything to do with it. I'm sure it's the most wet dream ever, because there's a little heels in an Icelandic energy system directly from Brussels. It must sound like Christmas hymns to the ears of the controversies. But for the rest of us, it's a natural nightmare. But this is what people are going to do. This is going to be the approval of the Generals, with nearly 90% votes behind them. Why on earth? I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u504	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. A president for the first how long he intends to make a meeting. On the one hand, whether or not there was a run on what was requested here and a seated president said that they were going to do, trying to get officials to come here and answer the standards given. Because it is imperative that if the minister of foreign affairs and he were not able to come here and explain his words, it would be of great interest to get responsible responsible men who gave the bill and those who are members of the government task force to come here and have a place of words for us. The length of a meeting for these prognostic factors matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u505	The president can answer a question. A senator for the continuation of a meeting so that the president plans to continue a meeting for a while. The rosary is open, but I can get the message out of being asked to share in these discussions. But the rosary's open, I reiterate it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u506	Mr. President. Of course, it is shocking not to hear the details of President's plans regarding the duration of a meeting. As before, we are ready to stay here as long as necessary and last this morning, and in itself we are quite ready to repeat it. Of course, this would make it easier for us to know in many ways. As for the other thing, I could tell you that the carrier of the bill, which we've requested to come here and talk to us, was part of some entertainment in a so-called show on the VR tonight during this discussion. Now I don't know if this part is shown directly, I never look at him, and I don't know anything about him. If ever it was picked up in the past, it would seem to itself that it might have delayed the person's being here. [[The president calls.]] But at any rate, I'm impressed that the president is now making some of the people we've asked to be here to see us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u507	Mr. President. I see reason to accept this challenge to the highest degree. President, not only because of the worst answers. Ministers of foreign affairs were here earlier tonight, but also because of government officials, other representatives of the bill, including the sharp. The head of the State Department has failed to respond to one of the many new things, not one of the many questions raised, and the major concerns that have been presented during the discussion tonight, the night before, the night before, the day before, and the night before. It must be the will of the government, who expects it to be. Generals agree to this proposal, be informed of its nature, and therefore respond when new indications arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u508	The president can add the information to wish. Congress officials are allowed to have further discussions with the highest level of conversation. The minister of foreign affairs has been made available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-24-110.u509	Mr. President. I briefly entered my talk on the basis of not thinking that any legal instructions had been issued. But as I came in, and in order to link the talks together, commitment the decisions of the joint EEA Member States under the EEA Convention to national rights once they have been taken, unless one of them is authorized according to Article 103. - I'm being referred to, like, 97 str. The European Economic Convention on a single voice, therefore it is one of these countries - to warn that the decision cannot be binding right away because of a controlled set of conditions at home. The Member State has a period of six months since the decision to the joint committee is taken to lift the warning. In the case of this specific introduction and decision of the joint EEA committee, two countries have put a administrative notice, or, in fact, all countries set a administrative notice, but Liechtenstein has lifted it. Norway has done it with eight heads, and Iceland is planning to do it with two. They will not go into effect until all the kingdoms have done so and speak in one voice. But with regard to the application of 103 str. The European Economic Convention I would like to establish only what is stated in Article 4. 102st. in the European Economic Area Convention, by permission of the President. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: If it is not possible to agree on changes to the Annex to this agreement, despite the application of a previous paragraph, the joint EEA Commission shall investigate all the additional possibilities of ensuring continued good implementation of the contract... And this is further said in Deuteronomy. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending The European Commission shall continue to seek agreement on a solution that can be accepted by the Member States. But at 103 st. which is referred to as follows: If the decision of the joint EEA committee can only be binding for a contract after meeting administrative conditions, the decision should be applied on the date mentioned in it, if a specific day is set, provided that the respective contract partners have reported to the other parties for the day that the administrative conditions have been met. If the announcement has not been announced on that date, the decision will go into force on the first day of the second month after the last announcement. But about 104th. is a very interesting text that actually leads out of 103. g. In cases laid down in this contract, the decision made by the joint EEA committee should be binding on an employee's contract from time to time, unless otherwise specified, and should be made necessary to ensure their implementation and application. - That. decisions made by the joint EEA committee. And now, Mr. President, it is such a pleasure that I have a decision for the EEA joint committee. God's Word, the Bible, says at 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5, does ◯Iastheniak and Norwegian text Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2009, (EC) No. 014/2009 (EC) No. 715/2009, compare with corrections that appeared during the Christmas season. The EU... - and then there are the pages and dates that apply - and 2012/490/EU, which will be published in the EEA account of the European Commission as valid. The text of the regulations to be taken in advance later cases is valid. And the date: go to Brussels, May 5, 2017. So as soon as the induction occurs, the action will be considered postponed, but the text is validated, correctly, to national rights and national rights from May 5, 2017.
