ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. One hundred and twenty thousand dollars on community media advertising, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. 1165 on transport of health care from private sources to public parties, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u2	A respectable president. Mankind's Achilles heel is its inability to distinguish between true and unsatisfactory. This may sound strange to modern society and modern technology. In fact, it is a scientific method that proves the point best. She deserves many long fistulas, and I can't rightly describe her in one conference talk, but in short she goes out to question, ask questions, and face tests that everyone can do. To believe, not your own convictions, but what others, even your enemies, can also recommend and get the same conclusion. In everyday speech, these findings are called facts, words that can, of course, be abused. A scientific approach is very far from self - determination. Almost all mankind has been without it for almost all the time, and for the whole time our firm belief in the future is not merely an accident that happens from time to time when one forgets to think or another forgets to read but is characterized by human society directly by a firm belief in things that are not true. This is because the pursuit of truth is not an inborn quality, such as walking upright. We are very good at understanding things, but we are not so good at distinguishing whether what we understand is right or wrong, true or false. But the news is worse. It is not our stupidity that makes us believe falsehoods but much more our psychological traits, which are largely the result of many millions of years of evolutionary history, where our origins simply were not about to distinguish truth from falsehood, but of living right enough to produce offspring to repeat the game. What's the point? It is that the truth is not accessible, simple, or obvious, and it applies to politics as well as to everything else in human society. The only way we can dream of believing what is right is by showing respect for this inadequacy. It is not enough to question the viewpoint of others but also to question our own opinions, especially those that arouse strong feelings. No one should fear the doubt, for it merely weakens what has a weak foundation but strengthens what remains. Thus, not only does good science work but good politics also works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the great role model Greta Thunberg is. Greta woke up and had a whole generation with him in a climate strike. They fill streets and squares around the world every Friday and protest inactivity in climate. Young people are awake, the world is waking up, and we who are sitting here also need to wake up. We've got a lot of action plans. They need to provide funds, and they need to be better and more ambitious every day. But is that enough? Perhaps the problem is that an emergency in climate matters needs to be declared. But before that happens, we too can look around here at a council and find changes that can be carried out as soon as possible. I give four examples. What about letting a national fund shun investments in the polluted industry in the past, making it a green investment fund for the future? Why don't you just finish my bill and put aside all the oil processing ideas in Iceland? In this way, we demonstrate beyond any doubt that industry is the inheritance of the past. Why not refuse to accept a proposal to travel in the fall unless it offers a real revolution in sustainable transport? Finally, we might view Greta herself as burning from that ideal at 16 years of age. How much better could society be if she and her peers had not only a voice to wake us up but also the power to make us pay the bill in the booth if we don't wake up? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u4	Mr. President. On Passover Day, we heard of a terrorist attack on Sri Lanka, a worldwide attack that has been panicd as the largest terrorist attack since the attack on the Twin Towers in New York in 2001. The attack on Sri Lanka was particularly directed toward churches and Christians at the time of the Passover Massur. Over 250 church and hotel guests were murdered by an all - out ice cream group in the morning of Passover Day and 500 are injured. After such atrocities, the attention has been focused on persecution against Christians. According to the United Nations, hundreds of Christians each month fall from various forms of persecution. Christians are the most experienced religious group in the world. It is estimated that 245 million Christians were persecuted for their faith, but over 4,000 died last year. There are 70,000 people in the North Korea labor camps because of their Christian faith. Britain's foreign minister has called for an international assessment of persecution against Christians throughout the world, which he presents as a major growing problem. We Icelanders are a nation with over 1,000 years of successful history of Christianity in this country. We are to be on the lead when it comes to criticizing persecution against Christians in the world. Few have stood up for the human rights of Christian groups in lands where such persecution takes place. Mr. President. We are now to take advantage of the opportunity that we now have in our session at the United Nations Human Rights Council and condemn persecution against Christians and demand improvement in lands with which the situation is worst, as in many Muslim countries. The struggle for human rights is also a fight for religious freedom. Speak vigorously against persecution against Christians. Let's show the world Iceland's place on the Council of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u5	A respectable president. In this chair, I have often discussed the importance of more frequent discussions about international matters in the community. Recently, there has been quite a debate about the EEA contract here in the country, which is, of course, international. This discussion has not been taken for quite some time here. There may be a number of reasons, but I think at least Just be that everyone under 40 will accept the quality of life that the EEA treats us for granted. We enjoy the valuables and quality that the contract brings to us in foreign education, can live and work there, we enjoy the quality of life that comes with the ability to pursue free trades between countries, and we consider it all for granted. I wonder in a newspaper article whether we who support international cooperation, free trade, etc., may have fallen only on guard. We in the Independence Party, who have been opposed to the European Union - and where I am not excluded - may have made it a huge part of our opposition to talk about other benefits of international cooperation. And just as those who support entry into the European Union focused too much on the admissions and ignoring other important factors, how to develop and shape our existing international cooperation. The decision to participate in the EU was a good decision. Those who took it made a decision to make a better society, a quality of life, and a better standard of living for people. So it's easy to stand here and repeat, and I'm going to try to remember to do so, that it's important to stand up for the standard of living and defend the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u6	A respectable president. Tomorrow is May 1st, the labor day. During that day, micromasks will march down the Hot Way to Ingolf's Square to protest because they are always at the bottom of the pecking order, or just not over its head, and may eat it as frozen in the presence of present and former governments. V.E.G. On April 1, as with the contracts of life, the prime minister said last night during an unsubstantiated period of inquiry that the poor and older citizens would not receive a raise of crowns. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then it would be uncertain what the next year they would get because they would depend on things, or they would be the highest. The prime minister spoke word for word: In each year's budget, for example, the decision to make a indicator increase is made, sometimes in comparison to the consumer calculus. Sometimes it has been compared to a consumer calculus plus some other criteria, so it is not quite a matter of how that decision has been made. How about doing the law? In the 69th. Social security law says, and it's perfectly clear that the pay rate should be determined, but the index if it's a better, more favourable one. The most amazing thing is that the government has been like a worm on gold in 2.9 billion earmarks, and it's not going to do anything about it. This money's on it like a worm on gold. Loneliness, economic harassment, starving continues and should continue. There's nothing to do. Next year, the same tricks as always. It should not be reimbursed, as in everyone else's case. No, it's supposed to be tricks. As Prime Minister says, it will be exactly the same as it always has been done; when disabilityrs are to have 3% or more rise, 6% as last - how was the trick? Yes, with amazing calculators, it could be reached down 50 percent. It will be done again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u7	A respectable president. One more time, I'm going to discuss an even energy cost. Shortly before Easter, I received an oral answer from the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers and these matters were discussed here at the conference Hall. The scope of national energy costs is divided. On one hand, it is government subsidies due to house warming in cold areas. This subsidies ensures that large amounts of house - to - house heating costs between those who heat their houses with earth's heat and those who cannot do so. She means house warming. However, it is equal to the cost of electrical energy in rural areas and urban areas. This is in accordance with the laws on the equivalent cost to the distribution of electricity. The cost of electricity is much higher in rural areas than in urban areas, and to balance the difference that all customers can pay for electricity release. According to the current five-year financial programme, it is aimed at reaching a ratio of between 53% and 85% in 2024. In answer to the highest. A minister said that there is a way to achieve this objective by the Ministry and Energy Agency. There are two main ways, either to double the current equation fee or to integrate and combine distribution fees in the country regardless of the urban tax or urban tax. I'd like to emphasize that the path which will be chosen to be equal between domestic and domestic life in the country, that working in rural areas will be at the same level for electricity and competition in urban areas, as well as for any action on increasing self-sponsability with energy consumption, such as heat pumpisation, etc., should be emphasised on all electricity consumption in the rural areas, not just the home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u8	President. I'd like to, as I've done from time to time here in the past while I've sat at the High Council, discussing energy policy, the need to put it together, and how I feel it should be screwed together. It just so happens. A government has a working team working on energy policy. There are some good ideas going on, and I have high hopes for that work. In my mind, we're supposed to make significant use of the energy of the country, mainly to build here a non-carbon society. That's what energy policy is first and last to spin. One of the few good things, I'd like to say, President, we talked about the last few weeks and months of energy, is that now everyone seems to be very interested in energy policy and how we're going to manage our energy. I think it's a good thing. We're supposed to use it to set up energy policy with carbon targets in mind. Because in the foundation of the energy policy, it's about building a green society. We're supposed to use our energy to achieve climate targets and to promote greener production. We're not just supposed to watch crowns and pennies. The structure of green jobs should be top priority, and we should even take advantage of the official holdings we can place on it. Is e.g. Social benefits of subsidies of electricity transport to vegetable production are higher than energy sales to dig for electricity, though higher prices are obtained for the latter? Through official ownership, we are expected to use the energy system for energy exchange and to ensure access to electricity across the country. All energy production must be subject to strict environmental requirements and the threshold of microindustries must be reduced. Our energy should be used to achieve climate targets, not to export electricity through the cables. We're supposed to use the energy of the country to make Iceland a non-carbon object, that's what energy policy is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u9	Mr. President. Icelanders want to view their land as a symbol of pure energy. It is all right to engage in contaminated industrial activities because the energy that drives it is so clean, i.e. Water energy that we have led us to believe is completely clean, has no effect on the environment, and earth temperature that we have led us to believe is renewable energy, and compared with oil and coal digging, it is. However, not everything that appears to be available in such a subject is inconsistencies. Aluminium uses carbon electrodes to melt the force, releasing an enormous amount of carbon dioxide. Even more dramatic is the use of herbal carbons to produce silica. In other words, this company imports coal into Iceland to stand in its ultimatum. It can be referred to as renewable energy for long periods of time. The mission for release is co-European, and each company needs to buy that release rights. In the years to come, such sources will rise. Is the plant on Backcoat equipped to replace coal with nonpolluted energy? If it doesn't, can it live under increasing prices for emissions? And if it can't, will the Icelandic state run for the baloney? It would be a story to the next town if a country government, a symbol of pure energy, helped a company burn coal in their trade. Carbon-free, yeah, of course, except, but at least non-employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u10	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss a matter of solution, which is with the government and the Congress, and it's about energy issues. An invitation has been made to change the holding of the Landsnet, i.e. direct state property. I'd like to encourage you to see that bill as soon as possible. It has also been called a tenant policy for land activation. I would like to know where that job is and if it is possible to speed up that work. It's a commercial energy policy. It's like a cohesive. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé mentioned, and changed tenant policy for Landactivation hangs with that energy policy. I know it's going well, but I'd like the committee, the one doing this, to inform the council where the work is now. There is a revised review of the constitution, i.e. various aspects of it. It has been discussed with resource regulations. I'd like to encourage them to get along with me as soon as possible in this process. There I am discussing a number of issues that are important when it comes to these major aspects of energy policy in Iceland that need to meet so that there will be an overall policy. I'm going to remember at the end of the scheduled owners' policy for Istavia. It is also unclear where that work is and whether it can be rushed. This has to do with the development of Southnes, employment, flying policies, and airport development outside of Keflavík, as required in a transport program. In all of these matters, it is important that work be speeded up and we get information about where these issues are in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u11	Mr. President. As the World of Congress knows, we have suffered a number of tragedies in a Icelandic population. We haven't given up, and we've had to look at the bankruptcy of a very important business in tourism, the WOW Air Force, but because of the strong status of the nation's population we're ready to cope with these traumas. For the first time, at least In the modern history of Iceland, our property in Iceland is higher than our debt. The State Fund standard is that it can take part in building biographies in cooperation with the employment community and the employee organisation. The contracts that have been made, the biographies, also lay the basis for what the remuneration has been seeking, and it is that interest rates, including financial costs, and the increase in the cost of making donations, are laid down with a decrease in interest rate. That's exactly what the bank manager, Már Guðmundsson, is preaching in the Morning newspaper this morning. I don't often praise the Sufficient Bank, even though it deserves everything, but it's quite clear that in the wake of the fine collective agreements we can expect and we can expect that in the near future, within a relatively short period of time, interest levels in Iceland will still go down, but we are now growing to a historical level. This is important to the employee, and this is of utmost importance to the companies of the country because it increases their body size and potential for having a higher salary. [[The president calls.]] In view of this, Mr. President, I'd like to congratulate the Icelandic remuneration of May 1 which is tomorrow. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u12	V.E.G. President. I wanted to talk about a fish evasion and the technological changes that have occurred to monitor the fishing grounds, but with the news at lunchtime, I'm going to change the subject. It came in the news that the road made it incorporated bank responsibilities for a new Army man. With President's permission, I'd like to quote the story: ▪ It has been called upon to rebuild the ship's expenses for building a ship by the ship's construction of Crist in Poland. Björgvin Ólafsson, executive agent of the shipping station here, says this in the value of a new contract to create it. Björgvin says that the state demanded a reimbursement of about 85% of 4 billion dollars. which was the total cost of construction. Björgvin says that next week, preparation will begin to sell to the newlf. ▪ Once they have their money back, he no longer belongs to the Icelanders, to Björgvin. The process of building this process has been almost one of the declines in history, and changes in time have become significant with the related costs and delays, as news reports have told us. In view of this news, the need for transport and local government ministers to present a verbal report on the situation in this context as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u13	A respectable president. Economic growth and future well - being are based on studies, scientific work, and modern innovation today. Foreign cooperation is important but absolutely essential for the small island of Iceland. Access to foreign markets is important to us as well as to cooperation in investments, research, and innovations. Therefore, it is important to contribute to a large network of international cooperation and integration, which strengthens the competitiveness of the country. So, at the 25th anniversary of the EEA Convention, it is not impossible to remind us of the different benefits of that contract. One of these advantages is undoubtedly access to Iceland's research resources in international competition on the basis of the European Economic Area Convention. Our success in international competitive funds is a key test of domestic ability and is a very good result in us compared to other European countries. The amount of money to Icelandic people is not at all the sole measure, though important, but the benefits are many. Iceland's involvement in research and innovation programmes in the European Union has been established due to the EEA Convention. Our success in this cooperation is extensive. It is good in comparison with other European countries, and the financial scope of the participation has increased to the rhythm of increasing plans each season. Thus Iceland's financial benefits of participation are far greater than what is being proposed, i.e. for every euro submitted, more than two euros return. Sources for each population are also the highest people in Iceland, and much more so. A respectable president. I believe there is good reason to encourage the European Union's European research and scientific community to participate in cooperation agreements and competitive programmes, as this is very important to us for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u14	Mr. President. During the winter, there has been an ever - increasing weight in the use of large numbers of people, self - interest institutions, and independent organisations, large and small, who have complained about dealing with health authorities. The procedure is this: Qualification is accomplished thoroughly, but it is often done without much consultation with those who render service, at least If there are any of these specic groups, self-employment agencies and independent operating experts, and then the price is lost. Neither is later negotiated. In human affairs the result is that governments are not prepared to pay the real value for the services required of those who run it, e.g. A nursing home. In order to bite the head off, health authorities do not even contribute to reorganizing the requirements when available but, rather, to the institution. During the past few months, the enterprise's organisation has a welfare service, which includes an enterprise. trains the country's well - prepared nursing home, repeatedly sending out challenges that challenge health authorities to start already a progressive and realistic discussion of the services of nursing homes. Then, on the part of these parties, the management committee laid down the service factor and the requirements they feel can be affected by the financial resources involved in the operation. In addition, the health - care agency has repeatedly challenged the health authorities to return the earmarked funds provided by nursing homes to cope with an increase in nursing weight in the homes. This 276 million. K. retaining health authorities still in their possession, likely to create a stronger contract, at the contrary to the council's will, which was clearly expressed in votes at the end of the last year. Mr. President. It's not an example, I'm afraid. There seems to be a system problem in the Convention of Medical Insurance with the different parties, and it needs to be addressed. You can't use no-important health insurance agency as a cover for the Ministry. It is quite remarkable that they are the people on the other side of the table who are trying to get it through a clear and costly claim and that the government is opposed. It's not a work ethic. Thus, it seems that theSetup is made up of selected persons who are tired to surrender, members such as nursing homes, independent experts, the cancer community, Caitas, and the U.S.A. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure that more of us here can agree that more is needed. I'm just as convinced that the greater part here wants the millions of 276 to return without delay to the nursing homes. The question is: Will the majority of the council do something about this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u15	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u16	Mr. President. In a few words, I was going to do what is not much of a practice under this program. I'm going to talk about the activities of the council. Since I've been watching politics and Congress since I was a teenager, I realize that here I have made significant progress in getting men to respond in a reasonable way, such as. assigning the lesson to the talk, as it is being done here. I have also noted that whether people come in a pit might be more concerned about whether they have received a part in the public talk class than about whether they have something to say. Likewise, I have noticed something that always fills people with the time they have to talk. No matter whether it is two minutes, five minutes, 15 minutes, or 30 minutes before a flash of light, you may wonder: " In five minutes, he was able to say what he was going to say, and then he has been off duty to avoid missing his assigned time. I'm not going to talk about filibusters, even though in the three months I've had more than one experience here. I know it's some of the rights of my part, an emergency sometimes, to do a lawsuit. On the other hand, I think that men should do a little bit of good with it, but it seems to me. I sometimes wonder if there is too much vanity or perhaps a lack of the same or self - respect when adults talk to themselves about nothing at all, perhaps two days in this dignified, historical, and remarkable hall. In the end, I'm going to quote a famous modern song by Sigfús Daðason. He says: Anyway, I'd like to ask a man How to Treat Words With Care they may explode and yet the rest is more dangerous That it can burn in the powder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u17	Mr. President. I'm going to use the time I need, whether it be two minutes or less, to discuss the situation on transportation to the Western Islands once again. I'm going to discuss the situation in the Landing Islands, where there's a bad time to dive, so Generals can get in there and sail to the Pacific, even though they're at the end of April. At the time, the Agency was prepared for the predictable depth of the harbor, and the Western Council specifically warned that this company with which the agreement was prepared did not have equipment or the ability to perform the mattresses. It has come to the day, and we have been watching the last days, and for weeks with the efforts of exports, we have added to the haven't gone well. They need so many days to remove the sand that it usually has so bad weather that they don't get it done for the next low. The firm previously with the depth had much better equipment and a difference three times in performance, so now the Western ears have to wait for something until the spring, even until the summer after this messenger is able to open the harbor. I still have a few seconds left, so I'm going to mention more. It is also unannounced, Mr. President, that on the Roadmaker's web it is not possible to see whether the ship sails in the village or in the land of the sea. Those who are going to the Western Islands cannot see it on the Street site. They can see whether mountain roads and roads all over the country are open or closed, but it cannot be seen whether the person should drive to the Pacific or to the Pacific if he is headed to the Western Islands. You can't see on the web. He has to call, he needs to get information by other means. This is unacceptable and must be fixed. [[The president calls.]] It is time to fix the dock and check what is needed for this dock to be open.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u18	A respectable president. When I accepted the office of the minister of foreign affairs in my day, I resolved to reform the Icelandic foreign service so that it would be even more equipped to meet the challenges of today's challenges. When I return my third report to the Generals, I see clearly how much has been accomplished at that time. The organizational and focus changes I put first in my first weeks of office have already been successful and the proposed international leadership projects are becoming reality. I have found it convenient to know how much our contribution on a international scale is appreciated. When we consider human rights worldwide, especially the rights of women and men, we are seen. Iceland has for many years been in the lead of the countries that use the resources of the oceans and countries in a sustainable manner, and since that policy there will be no compromise. Of course, much more can be done. I believe that this is the best thing we do in cooperation with other nations - but on our own terms. Free trade has been on the road since the start of the reign of the first Icelandic embassies. Icelandic diplomats took their first steps, and trade agreements with other countries saw the day. Then we trust business relationships with neighboring countries by entering EFTA. The European Economic Convention 25 years ago opened up new opportunities for an Icelandic enterprise on European markets. Protectors fell, and other forms of business barriers were virtually eliminated. The European Union and our membership in the EEA have proved to be very successful and have guaranteed the interests of Icelandic companies and citizens. The EEA Treaty provides a fine example of how close cooperation has gained in increased respect for the rights of pay people and the public, improved interest in consumers, extensive participation in European research and scientific work, and, above all, in other ways, in other major consumer markets. Such regulations may seem complicated, but in the vast majority of cases, society has benefited greatly. I'm confident that if we just keep our cards right when it comes to the field of interest, we'll make sure it stays on. This has ended up one of my priorities at the State Department. In this regard, it is important to remember that this great improvement has been achieved without Iceland's significant sacrifice. The Icelandic fishing policy, one of the main reasons for our prosperity, is once uncut and for Iceland's sake. Similarly, our agricultural policy takes into account the Icelandic situation. We are not part of the Union's customs alliance, and we can do free business and free deals with those we want. On this special situation, Iceland and the other EFTA countries have been able to ensure continued cooperation and trade with Britain, whether Britain leaves the EU with or without a contract. Since the beginning of my Ministerial Times, I have put emphasis on the fact that Iceland's interests for Bgret will be guaranteed. I am very proud of the success of our foreign service in identifying our interests and preparing all possible scenarios in the light of uncertainty. I am convinced that the British will become loyal allies in promoting international relations. Clearly, if we are to cope with isolation policies and to improve the worldwide business system, the propaganda needs to be tightened. Lately lost, I've reenacted our focus on foreign transactions, as they are a very special heart issue to me. Iceland's economic care has been improved in a measure as the government's focus on the improved implementation of the EEA Convention. The situation of professional candidates and the Brussels embassy has been strengthened to enable those working there to influence early regulations, while governments set priorities for interest care every year. To ensure continued economic growth and prosperity in Iceland, the export value of the population needs to be substantially increased in the coming years. In order to accomplish this, cooperation with the job life has been enhanced, including in connection with the new Iceland Office and the new export and marketing plans. In cooperation with the Icelandic emissary office, Iceland's Office is designed to better analyze market opportunities and provide companies with more efficient services. On the basis of this, companies will also be working to ensure that companies are the best commercial agreement so that they continue to work in Iceland. That's what we do. by expanding Iceland's vacation network, which currently reaches 74 countries. More and more contracts will be negotiated in the field of double taxation, investments, and air travel that contribute to more business growth and attract investments. There will continue to be consistent efforts to remove other business barriers, e.g. Regarding the health care of Icelandic meat and fish. Since my office, I have had 150 conferences with stewards and representatives of other countries, especially with the objective of promoting business matters. That's how we have even. An agreement that pays for direct air transport between Iceland and Japan and an agreement that pays for the export of the Icelandic agricultural product to China. More of these treaties will soon become clear. Not to be overlooked, however, is the pivotal agreement on the business councils of Iceland and the United States, made with the U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, when he arrived to visit this country in February. A good reputation for land and nation is gold when it comes to exporting goods and services. In recent years our soccer team has won the minds and hearts of soccer players in many parts of the world. The Foreign Service, Iceland Office and the Council were all convened last year to use all the parish devices involved in the Icelandic Men's Team at the World Championship in Russia. At the convention, it was also emphasized that information should be provided to the Icelandic supporters of the country so that their travel would go smoothly. The city service was on the watch to solve the problems of those who searched for it in great and small. Civil service is actually one of the most extensive projects of foreign service. Nearly 50,000 Icelanders, nearly 14% of the population, live outside the landstones. Then there are not those who have possessions abroad and who live there for a long time, although they live here on land. In view of the international tourism crisis, there may be no surprise that every year the civilian service pays from thousands of countries. Recently, policies began to improve the ministry and make it more efficient. It is not only at the soccer field that Iceland has done well. Similarly, our success in equality has increased in international ways. We are increasingly consulted for counseling and information on that subject. This is equally true of the position of human rights in Iceland and international lawsuits. In my day, I became the first Icelandic minister of foreign affairs to participate in the work of the United Nations Human Rights Council, and since then I have observed with interest and satisfaction how we have grown there. Last summer, Iceland received extensive support to play a more important role in the establishment of the council. In fact, Iceland's progress has called attention to world events and gives evidence of the small impact that countries can have. The best example is doubtless Iceland's head on the scene of the council when the conditions of human rights in Saudi Arabia were criticized. That criticism no doubt contributed to the fact that recently some women who fight for human rights in the land were released from custody. Our time is now more than halfway, and we have resolved to be heard. I have, for example. Speak incontrovertly of the fact that human rights violations on the Council of Human Rights improve their counsel and focus on changes at home. As if in Saudi Arabia and the Philippines, we've been able to make a lot of other countries with us. It's a matter of equal rights, as in all our jobs. We know that by ensuring women alike the opportunity to participate in all aspects of society, we can create a peaceful society and an increase in global prosperity. It is a fine price to promote equality in foreign lands, but without doing our homework, surely there will be a hollow sound. In the Ministry of State, plans have now been made to prevent all forms of harassment, and we have held a barbershop conference to strengthen the awareness of employees on how we can prevent any form of discrimination. In March, the Ministry received a equally paid witness. The next summer, there will also be chapter divorce when women become more part of those who serve as ambassadors in the two - sided embassies of Iceland. The first women ambassadors of Iceland in Washington and Berlin to receive keys in August, and there will also be three of Iceland's four couriers in the north. This is appropriate because equality is one of the key values that unites the North countries in all cooperation, but Iceland is on the lead in the Norwegian partnership this year. This year, all roads seem to lead to Reykjavík. This year Iceland is the head of the Council of the Norwegian Ministers, providing the cooperation of the Norwegian Foreign Minister (N5) and the Foreign Minister of the Northern countries and the Baltic States (NB8) for procreation - and takes place in the management of the World Bank in Washington for the NB8 national group from the middle of the summer. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducts projects on the National Ministers Committee, which is being conducted by the head of the Northern Commission. The focus projects are in the fields of young people, sustainable tourism and the affairs of the ocean, which are truly a subject of the dough here in Iceland. The authorship of the New Year's Presidency, ◯Gagnways, is particularly evident for all the Norwegian cooperation, which is attended in Hrvatska and is intended to refer to the friendship of the northern countries, which is published in intensive cooperation. But there are also ways of doing things. That friendship is evident in nearly all our worldwide work. We often enjoy the privilege of looking to the norse in order to compare books with viewpoints when appropriate. In view of the fact that we have limited resources and resources, Iceland is particularly important. The North countries often support one another for influence in international committees and schemes and are offering Iceland as a session for the UNESCO Commission examples of this solidarity. In cooperation with the minister of foreign affairs I'm leading this year, I felt compelled to highlight the relations of the northern countries with China and the possible cooperation of foreign trade. There will then be an assessment of the implementation of Thorvals Stoltenberg, former minister of the Norway State, of the increased cooperation of the Northern countries in foreign and security, and whether or not to request further cooperation until the next ten years. It has been five years since Russia incorporated the Monsters and thus grossly violated national rights. Western society, indeed, is important when it comes to defending international law, and Iceland has done its part. I do not tire of reminding myself of the importance of international law and international cooperation in small, warless countries such as Iceland. The core of Iceland's international security and security cooperation is our involvement in the Atlantic Alliance - recently celebrating the 70th anniversary and two - sided defense agreement between Iceland and the United States. In this cooperation, we guarantee the operation of the Icelandic air defense system, marine monitoring systems, communication systems and other workers and equipment in Iceland. With regular air space monitoring and participation in Community and Norwegian cooperation exercises, we make sure that adequate equipment and knowledge are available to fulfill Iceland's international commitments and meet challenges facing Iceland's challenges in this field. As a result, we were involved in our involvement in ◯Trident Junography, one of the greatest defenses ever performed by the Atlantic Community in recent years. Although the exercise was largely done in Norway, it began in this country when a military ship from Member States met under the common rule of the Atlantic Community. Iceland was also involved in the growing threats of Internet security. The defense training took place at the same time that 75 years have passed since the turning point for the Battle of the Atlantic Ocean, the longest ongoing battle in World War II, when allies reached the conquest. That is why we were reminded of the 100,000 lost lives at sea. Some 200 of them were Icelanders. We may forget how important it was during World War II to have friends in Iceland. In the present environment of security, it is equally important as well as reminding us that safe transport of resources and manpowers can go freely to the ocean around Iceland. It is also important to keep in mind when discussing the future of the northern countries that Iceland has long talked about further warfare in the Arctic and the growing Russian military activity in the region has caused some anxiety. As a result, there has been a dramatic increase in surveillance of submarine traffic and considerable implementation of human activities in the security area at Keflavour Airport. At that time, the value of stable air space control and the more efficient air space control have been proved to be the last time Russian bombers have been flying in the Icelandic air - control area. Whatever the present in Western relations with Russia, it has been possible to develop an important position of cooperation in the Arctic Council. There, Member States work together to meet the many challenges facing the rapidly changing areas due to global warming. During the next few days, Iceland will take the lead in the Arctic Council and will lead the much work done at the council's level. With sustainable development guided, the Icelandic pretence will include Focusing light on marine, climate, and renewable energy, as well as on support of northern communities. The three support of sustainable development, environmental factors, social and economic factors is expected to be equal. While environmental trends in northern regions are a concern for all people on earth, there is no doubt that these too may be possible. Like Sue Canal 150 years ago, the waterways that will open over the years reduce the time of sailing. In the middle of the Atlantic, near the Arctic Circle, Iceland's estate makes it a more apparent center for travel and transport to the north. Icelandic companies have experience and knowledge that can help with the release of a number of challenges facing the area. In discussions about northern issues, I would like to insist that the developments there have a global impact. The rapid melt of the ice pack still contributes to climate change that we must respond to with speed and certainty. In fact, we have no time to lose on such subjects, for the effects of climate change are already being influenced. In accordance with government emphasis, development teamwork is a growing part of foreign service activities. This year Iceland accepts a vast agreement between the North and the Baltic States of the International Bank, with prehumanity in cooperation for two years. At the scene of the World Bank, it has been achieved to promote an Icelandic field of expertise in the field of geodynamic abuse, which is of great benefit to us. There is further evidence to further increase Iceland's access to projects related to fishing roads. It has been a special challenge for me to make even more effective use of the specific knowledge we have in a number of areas of building infrastructure and employment in developing countries. That is why I set up a new workforce for employment and the Icelandic government, which is designed to support cooperation with tasks in poor countries and to promote employment development and sustainable growth. The emphasis is well reflected in a new development policy presented before the council. The development policy is based on the UN's global objectives, which have already marked a turning point in the development of our neighbors. They will only be reached by cooperation, especially with public and professional life. The world goals are consistent, and they are especially based on the fundamental belief that success will not be achieved without a complete agreement. As a result, e.g. increasing the use of sustainable energy resources from greenhouse gas emissions. Education for all and more innovations enables us to meet today's challenges and cooperation, including the private sector. And this is vital for global prosperity. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to visit Malawi, where Iceland has been involved in developing cooperation for three decades. It was a unique experience to see the results of our cooperation. By ensuring thousands of access to clean water and health care, Iceland has saved many lives. I am convinced that we can do even better as we progress by building employment and better using natural resources in this beautiful than poor country. There, expertise can make a difference. My optimism is especially the result of our own history. Last year, an anniversary of the sovereign world power gave each of us reason to look back and meditate on the great progress that has been making at that time. They could never have been without active participation in international cooperation, especially in lively foreign affairs. The history of the Icelandic foreign service is thus united in the history of the sovereigns, and our participation in international cooperation has always been on the basis of it. Iceland has always contributed to the general social cooperation that came to pass after World War II. That's how we've chosen to be part of a group of republics between Europe and North America. This cooperation appears to be more and more important when it is associated with currents and trends around the world. International cooperation and active interest care are the basis for the continuation of living and opportunities in this country with what happens best in the world. There, the EEA is a key element as well as the Western partnership for security. Respect for national rights is then a fundamental premise in relationships, especially in smaller countries that would otherwise have no opportunity to defend themselves against the efforts of the great. More important, participation in international cooperation includes the recognition of foreign countries to the fact that Iceland is a free and sovereign state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the speech. There was much good in it. I would like to point out that he, like his predecessors in his work, back to 2005, has blessed with great emphasis on human rights. I'm especially happy to be the highest. Ministers continue on that rod, especially when it comes to sexual equality, female authority, etc. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is his position on the United Nations Security Council on Sexual Abuse in War, that it is not to be used as a weapon? The rape is being used in war, and it was being opposed. The U.S. government - and I would like to have the highest attitude. A minister to it - opposed the wording that had been worked on for a very long time and watered it out. I saw that both the British and the Germans said: "The U.S. government is responsible for the fact that this conclusion was actually exhausted. The United States even did so. Fear of some kind of abortion, and then the current U.S. government - has been completely slanted there - also contrary to the word avatar, or ◯gonder◯, as it has been reported. I'd like to know how the minister's viewpoint on this American position, whether he approves of the conclusion that it now looks, based on the facts. Most important, I ask: What did the Icelandic government do to draw out its policies? Do governments try to talk for a more specific conclusion than the one that was approved? Did they try to talk to the Americans about handling these matters wisely, not in the way that came to be with them later?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It is true that it is not new that Iceland has emphasized human rights matters, especially equality, in its foreign policy. But I don't think it's been as prominent as it is now, especially because of what position we have taken in the United Nations Human Rights Council. One basic factor in human rights is surely equal between the sexes. Without extending the answer to the questions. A senator, we have already expressed our opinion of that as a matter of course. A senator refers to him. We cooperated with the North countries and declared our disappointments by what this conclusion looks like, in fact, for the reasons it might be. A senator referred to him. This is in harmony with the emphasis we have made so far, and I'm sure we are referring to the speech in which we agree with the views that all the North countries have in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for the answer and immediately celebrate. It's important, I just want it to be perfectly clear on our part that this is our position. It was a disgrace to the way the United States approached this conclusion, that they have deposed themselves in the arms of Bahrain, Russia, and China, when it comes to the rights of all genders, and even as much as they did, against the systematic use of rape in war. I'd like to ask, but I'm not sure that I will, but it's related to how Iceland wants to protect the biodiversity of the oceans: formal negotiations are going on with the implementation of a new contract under the marine rights contract. There's a team at work at the Department of Foreign, Professional, and Environmental Affairs. There's no information about the group's activities, no policy. Of course, Iceland and I are very interested in protecting ourselves from acidification and pollution in the ocean, but there is no information about our policy, how we are working on this. Of course we want to protect the biodiversity of the ocean, but how will Iceland use it? [[The president calls.]] There's no information. I'd appreciate it if I did. A minister would respond to this in a clear way, as he answered his first inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u22	A respectable president. It is surprising that there is no information about it at all. A senator refers to him. However, in the fall of 2018, a U.S. negotiation with the United Nations in New York began with the creation of a new international agreement for protection and sustainable diversity in the ocean outside the jurisdiction of countries. The negotiations have been organized 2020, but we can expect a relatively long time for the discussion. This is a little short time I have to answer this, I can't get it on the 30 seconds, but maybe we can talk about it below. However, there is a wide range of subjects that turn, such as the wind. A senator pointed to the biological diversity of the sea that affects seafood and all sea research. There should be no secret where we stand in it. I think people can guess who she is and should not surprise anyone or be newsed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u23	Madam President. I'd like to start by talking about the embassy. Today, embassies are extremely important for us to handle foreign trades and foreign politics. The role of an ambassador is to build a broad network of connections they have an answer to, and it is new to benefit the Icelandic company and the public, of course, as well as to increase our share with national institutions locally. It's important for all countries to do these things well and to be powerful in their embassies, but especially for smaller countries like Iceland. Hence, there is always reason to ask about how the building of a letter is viewed to the future. Now we've watched the end of the embassy, e.g. in Vienna, and actually a certain elimination from activity in relation to the ESE context - it is obvious that someone who is not there cannot handle it as well as someone who is present. We also have home ambassadors who do business with various countries, e.g. Czech Republic, but only to reach the country once or twice a year because of limited financial resources. In addition, we have ambassadors who have impossible territory, who even have to cross continents. Of course, financial resources are limited, and this report shows that fine work has been done in trying to make more money and to further the work within the available units. But I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: How will he build up for the future so that we can have a powerful answer to important business countries, to important international institutions, and to other tasks that we do not do well enough today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're right next door. In my day, a senator, one of the two - sided embassies in Vienna and the other in Mozambique, has been closed. They were both natural. As with Vienna, there was no ambassador to Austria here. However, we are not relaxing about the ASE. So we still do and do it from Vienna, but I thought there was no reason to be with two - sided embassies in Austria, so I decided that we would use that money elsewhere. This is always a matter of the limited resources we have. There is no evidence in the program that we have enough space to open more embassies. What I have stressed is that we also need to make good use of the business opportunities that will open up with new markets and some business opportunities are closer to us. That's why we made changes in an Iceland lab, to promote cooperation with our professional life, because foreign service business services and the embassies don't sell anything, the career does it, and so we have to work together. The areas that man has considered, not as a embassy, but rather as business services or districts, which have been particularly concerned with business are on the west coast of the United States. The digital ambassadors have also been examined, similar to those in Denmark and Southeast Asia. In Asia, we are in Japan and China, and then in India. It is obvious that the importance of these countries will be greatly increased, especially China and India. Of course, there are far more markets than there are in those countries. It may be complicated and may not always be desirable to care for such matters as this. From those countries to neighboring countries for reasons that were common. A senator knows. [[The president calls.]] So people have looked to this. But there's no money to go on it, at least not soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u25	Madam President. It was now all right an answer, of course, much to the thing you've heard before, that there's no room for dilatation, that somehow it must work within the same frame, which I may not think is ambitious enough. But I'd like to get involved with something else. In Scotland and Wales, climate crisis has now been declared. Several countries go very far in their efforts to fulfill their role in Paris goals and so forth. But isn't it time for Iceland to take a leading position in international cooperation trying to come together countries of the world in order to have a real, open conversation about how we deal with the climate problem? Isn't it a good opportunity for Iceland to host e.g. The COP Summit, 2021 or something like that with the intention of finally going to try to take seriously the climate crisis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u26	A respectable president. First, make it clear that there is no lack of ambition in Icelandic foreign service. I think we've totally earned that ambition, as this report clearly shows. However, we must always tailor to growth. When we're sitting here with limited funds, it's all about priorities, making them useful to Iceland's interests as best they can. With regard to climate, we are taking a tremendous lead in many areas today, as mentioned in my talk. We have the lead in the Arctic Council, the Northern Union Team. We too are in the Northern Union as well as the Baltic States, i.e. NB8, and then, in the World Bank. There the climate is going through the world. Taking a bigger assignment? If at some point, similar to the Council of Human Rights, the situation is expected and encouraged to take over such projects, of course we will consider it with an open mind. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to be tailored to growth. We have a very big project that is very important. But there the climate is going to be striking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a fine speech. I will now review the report below in my speech and including the introduction of the minister to the report. The importance of the EEA contract was presented in a minister's speech and I'm not going to belittle the importance of that contract. I'm a spokesman for not being afraid to discuss the pros and cons of this contract, to ask each stone, and to wonder whether the deal is favorable or not. I'm not a spokesman to tell us about this deal, I think we should have the courage to discuss the pros and cons. V.E.G. A minister well described how good it is that we are exempted by our fishing policy when it comes to the European community, which is extremely important. I'd like to ask him if it wasn't convenient for us to have kept such an exception to the agriculture. The minister mentioned that agriculture is important to Icelanders, but at the same time, we are faced with this, because we are members of the EEA Convention, that we have been sentenced to open the import of non-frost meat to Iceland. I'm asking a minister if he's pleased with that development, if he thinks it would have been better if we had kept the agriculture completely outside this EEA contract and everything that the agriculture comes, health requirements and so on, we didn't get away from opening our delicate land for importing unfrosted meat from the European Union, which we really don't know where it came from. It has recently been shown that meat stamped into the back and on the other side of the ridge is infected, even in the back and before. I ask the minister if it is just an example that we need to be very careful, though this cooperation is important, and many good things about it, when we come in or take on some commitment there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u28	A respectable president. I think the brief answer to that question is that we need to do our homework. It doesn't mean to sit around and let everything surprise you. It took time, I think, especially in 2005, for men to try to sell raw fish. They knew at that time, as indicated by what it would mean at some point. It's been cooking for a decade, more than that. I have felt that those who have taken the lead could have gone very hard in trying to prepare us for it. Because I think we have a lot to offer, with grammatical arguments, when it comes to wholesome commercial agricultural products. But if we don't catch it and don't do nothing about it, nobody knows about it. I am very pleased with the emphasis the government already has on Iceland's food policy, though it would have been before. Health benefits of animal products and food do not begin and end with cryoprecipitation. That's a long road away. I am personally concerned about the use of antibiotics in everyone for food production, and I try to avoid the products that I think are likely to contain. That's why in Iceland I buy Icelandic. I can't do that in other countries except on very small scale, and I'm a walking example of not being very deadly to eat foreign meat or foreign vegetables, I've done a lot of it. But we have to do our homework. There is a powerful force in this, and we certainly need to defend our interests there, as we do elsewhere. But no one will do that for us. That's why I stressed it and made one of my first jobs to promote the protection of interest when it comes to the EEA. Because if there's no one on the scene to wave the flag and we don't do our own job, nobody's gonna do it for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u29	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. He's not the first secretary in history to try to support our presence in Brussels or to monitor the EEA agreement. Certainly it was this way for a time when the EU epidemic gripped that the interest in the EEA deal was reduced, which was very unfortunate. Of course, he was to be kept in close proximity to this challenge in an effort to enter the European Union. The basis for which the EEA treats the so-called samurai rhythms, as we now see with the agriculture and the non-fried meat, i.e. something is endogenous that people think is innocent, and then we take one by one, and then something more and more, making us sit up with black people we don't want. I agree with a minister, you have to do homework to stop such a thing from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u30	A respectable president. When I got to the point, we were still in the place where we were already applying for involvement in the European Union. They took largely down those lines of defense that existed. They took a representative of the Burssel's Penitentiary. I suggested we put them back there and there's something we're working on. I think the discussion that's taken about this -- we need to take it to the depth, take it so everyone is aware of what's going on here. Because if we're just going to blame everything that goes wrong, when even more than we haven't done our homework ourselves, we're going to undermine our beach legs. We are trying to undermine the worldwide organization that has made us one of the richest peoples in the world. It is absolutely impossible that if we do not have access to the foreign markets as we do, we would be as rich as we are today. We would still be in that place, if we didn't have access to foreign markets and our markets were not open, to be a poor people like us some 100 years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u31	President. I want to start again by thanking the highest. Minister for a fine speech. I would also like to please a president because he has nothing to fear that I will discuss the EEA deal. I'm sure it'll only be done later when he comes. However, the minister gave up the ball to ask a little questions about this fine deal, knowing that the Minister is very fond of discussing the EEA deal, he is a special amateur for many years. [[Yeah.]] V.E.G. President. This report is quite extensive, and I want to start by thanking the powerful and excellent personnel of the State Department for this summary and for this large report presented here. Once again, we see that the work is very varied when it comes to foreign affairs, variety, and importance. Of course, the emphasis is different. Of course, we cannot be good at everything. That's what we know. This article discusses international cooperation. This is about law and order, national rights, defenses, development cooperation, etc. and I'm going to go through the report in such a calm way. I'd like to state, though, that I'm only irritated when ministers speak the way they do in the introduction: I did this, and I did the other. We know, of course, that the Minister is going through this, but it's the officials who are preparing all of this, and they should be very grateful too. I think it's true what follows here in the first or second line of the entrance that foreign service needs to be prepared to meet challenges at any given time. That is absolutely correct. Therefore, it is important to look ahead and take pride in the longer-term ministry and the work of the State Ministry. Sadly, when we studied the financial program, I felt that there was enough ambition for the future, where financial funds are expected to lower the financial agenda. There is no limit to moving money within the Ministry's wall. This can be done for some time, but in that way you are not able to strengthen and for a longer time. We need to set the target higher, and I know there are others willing to back up a minister in getting money for these projects. In the introduction, there are a number of things the minister says he did - and I don't doubt that it's all right, with the help of his wonderful staff. But there's a mention of Japan and a flight. I'd like to congratulate the Minister and the Ministry especially on this, to have opened a window to Japan when it comes to flying transport. Of course it's not an air travel contract, but this may be the first step in getting one. I'm especially glad to hear it. On the other hand, China is so spoken of. It is also good that all of this be followed. Everything takes time with China and the vacation contract, but it's clear that this is really just a normal continuation of what was set up and realized when the contract was signed, i.e. that, gradually, we would have to pay for and adapt to our needs when it comes to health and so forth. It is also very pleasant to see on page nine in the introduction of Ministers that the next summer, in part, women will be assigned to a new post of ambassadors in Iceland's two - sided embassies. What a pleasure it is to see it! This may not be possible unless the number of women in ambassadors was considerably increased in 2013 (in 2013)2016. Of the total population, 26% were 2013, and 31% were 2016. At the same time, women were made chiefs of the Ministry to the same degree as men. 2013 were 17% of the Ministry's superiors, while 50% were in 2016, or in the spring of 2016, which is very important. And it has to be continued. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to continue to balance the sexes and also congratulate him on having received the same amount of pay. This is very important, and I encourage Ministers to continue leveling the status of men and women within this department. In 2013 in 2014, four women were appointed new ambassadors. To my great joy, I think three of them are now going on or off the mail, as they say, and one probably finishes their place there. Sadly, though, one work started on the second part of 2015 and in the first part of 2016, making the first woman the Ministry Secretary. By the spring of 2016, all documents had been taken care of. However, the minister who accepted it decided to keep it and not do it that is unfortunate. I trust the current secretary fully to examine this carefully the next time it comes to raising women even further and finally making a woman the Ministry of State. One more thing about women and equality: I'd like to mention that there is one project that was going on at the time and that would be interesting to ask a minister about whether it's still there. It was an assignment to try to increase the number of women in contracts, i.e. ▪mediats ◯. There's something that Iceland and I can do. We have many good women who can become compromises between different groups. That's where we're supposed to look very forward. I know a minister will definitely try to present it. That time goes by very fast, so now I have to lean on something. I'm not going to go to a lot of northern society. We're about to take on a lot of work there, and I know that our fine people will do a great job there and solve them properly. But I'd like to ask about one thing I miss. I just didn't see it in this report. A minister may have decided to stop asking that question. But there was a considerable powder in the so-called search and rescue center in the North Sea, i.e. To try to establish a center that would bring together members of the National Reservation Guard, whether it were civil or military, there are more than armies taking these search and rescue issues. The idea was that it would be built here in Iceland. It would be nice to know how it has been made alive or whether it has been delayed or shocked. When we studied the financial program, I criticized the Minister for making a little of the reality of the Human Rights Council. I don't make her look small, though. She's a big step, all right. But in the context of the parts, I may not feel that setting the priorities at the same time is not the powder that we know is needed in Strasbourg and Vienna in order to handle matters better than we do today. Taking this to us at the same time and beating us on our chest. I'm not saying that a minister should have missed going to the Human Rights Council, but we still have to live up to the big words. We do not do this by taking on some big, fat, and interesting role, but at the same time, we do not put what is needed in places we're already doing. On page 31 of this magazine, we will discuss national rights. There I would like to mention two things and encourage a minister to be very careful and to put matters to the fore. Of course, that is the legal issue and the basis issues. These two issues are extremely important. Of course, there are other matters here mentioned in this chapter that are very important, but this is part of what makes us a free and sovereign state - that our jurisdiction, our rights and land base, is recognized, is large enough and powerful, that we can say, "This makes us what we are today, this island in the middle of the Atlantic. Again, I will have doubts about what is stated on page 35, about this department of the home ambassador. I can't get it going in my weird head that it's easier to take distant states from an even greater distance than if they were below, for example. Vienna. It included countries of Central Europe. Under the embassies where there are opportunities for the Icelanders, for the heat of the earth, and for all kinds of tasks. But this is all, from what I hear, come home now. I hope it works. I hope it'll improve. But I'm going to continue to have serious doubts about it and I'm not sure that it's any less expensive at the time. Then there's foreign service for the future. Here on page 41, this report was made, of course. I like her a lot. I'd like to welcome this department in particular. I think that although it has been discussed many times, it is time to keep our voters on better terms and to further activate them. This is often an enormously powerful people who are interested in working more for us. Once again, I worry about the money for the future. They mentioned Iceland's office. Of course, it's something that had already begun, but it's fine that it was managed to get to the place where it is today. Still, I hope that now, in a calm way, I will be able to get a closer hold of the money that the state puts on these matters. I still don't think there's any reason why this is all over the rest of the country and those schemers, the money that goes into some kind of market or job to attract investors or tourists. A large and large section of the Baltrexone component is normal. Indeed, the minister and staff have been very diligent in coming and training a foreign - language committee. Of course, I want to thank you for that. It's a very big deal, of course. It is clear that its pace or how it develops - we are not the pilots there. We don't hold on to the steering wheel or to determine where this Bgret-socate is going, whether it's beaching or sinking, or if it usually runs out. But I think it's important that all balls continue to be well promoted there and I think that they did well in themselves, though apparently many things remain unsatisfied. With regard to security and defense, I'd like to be glad it's raising the budget for defense. It is important to keep doing so. We need to continue the excellent cooperation we have with the North countries or NORDEFCO and then continue the activities we have taken in the process of managing defence workers, etc. Here on land. Have we achieved this tremendous success, both of our good staff at the Ministry as well as of course the State Hall. There are interesting lines on page 67 that discuss the development of information technology and artificial intelligence, related to potential disarmament and arms limits and military purposes, etc. There we need to keep an eye on the possibility that we could put some weight on the scales. The Atlantic Community is a cornerstone of our defense. Of course, we need and should continue there completely. There's nothing to take us to shore there. I'd like to mention again the European Security and Cooperation Organization, OSE. There we are doing our work perfectly, having powerful people to do it. Of course, we can do even better, engage in even greater activities, such as Strasbourg, which does not include financial contributions or priorities. In this defense and security section, there's a vision and goals and I agree with them, I have to say. As regards development cooperation, we are discussing a development team on the Foreign Affairs Committee, where it comes to 2nd. ... ifI rememberright, now in the days to come. Good plan. Of course, we have all the questions about how we will be calculated when we understand what we can count as developing cooperation and what we can't do. It will, of course, be explained, and then we will expect to discuss more on this. One last thing, Madam President, regarding foreign service business. Once again, I just want to say - there's actually an interesting chapter on the housing business -- that it's a question: Is it not time to simply build over the board in a proper way and save all this rent money or whatever it is we're spending on? But I'd like to say in the end, Madam President, that a small country like Iceland needs a powerful foreign service. We need a foreign service, which may be larger than the size of the island, because, as a minister rightly said, we are subject to international contracts. We're dependent on business. Are we subject to contact with the outside world, and for this we need powerful people - who we certainly have in our ministry and in the business of foreign service - but we need to improve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for extensive talks and many questions. I'm gonna try to answer the main thing that came out here. I'm just happy and happy to commend officials who do well. But I'm gonna have to do something a little bit. Senator. He spoke of me saying that I made the other one and that, but at the same time, it pointed out why. A senator - rightly - believed that in his time as a minister of foreign affairs, he had appointed some ambassadors who made the sex ratio equal. It is only that ministers are responsible for their business, and their policy takes into account what they set out to do. However, it does not have to be specifically stated that, of course, no one is doing anything alone. I'm lucky to have very good staff in foreign service and Iceland to work with me. Hv. A senator referred to Japan. I've heard of a move that hasn't happened before. After spending a lot of time and a lot of work, we come to the point where we have the first meeting on June 6, where we will discuss the business council of Iceland and Japan. I hope he leads to a vacation shop deal. Of course, we are happy that we have come to that place. I also have hope of working with China. We finished opening for exporting Icelandic lamb, which leaves fish, lighting, and fish fish. I hope we'll have some news about it sooner than later. I didn't know about this news as bad as ever. A senator was here referring to the Ministry officer. You know, about all the compromises that took place. A senator referred to the brief answer that there is no change in the quality of the project. Then I'm going to try to finish the rest of my life. A senator asked about the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u33	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that I spoke of what was done at the Ministry of 2013-2016, but the word "I've been" had nothing to do with it. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. A minister is truly happy about what he was telling us here, that the first meeting of a business meeting with Japan is ahead. That's good news. Hopefully this will lead to a free trade deal or some sort of business agreement with that important country in our dealings and business. It's also quite remarkable if it succeeds, because as I think Minister has mentioned in his speech, there aren't many countries that Japan has made a deal with, at least in the EFTA states it's just Switzerland. Probably there's something more than I'm aware of or in my head. But it's still a good stage, and thank you very much, chief. Minister, to inform. I hope we'll have more news of this, when something happens. We don't have to force the Minister to say something right away because the meeting hasn't happened. But it's important that we do well. I'd like to enter the Minister, because he's coming up here again, just into this about the search and rescue center, if it's been placed on ice or if it's still on board somewhere. The idea, of course, was that this would become a main source of resistance in Keflavík, and around the region that would strengthen even more that area all over, but would also be with some kind of northern society as well. Madam President. I can't remember what more questions I asked the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u34	A respectable president. Hv. A senator also asked about the human rights matters, which were previously discussed. I don't think we're going uphill on our priorities. We have placed the most emphasis on Geneva's Human Rights Council. That's right. But that does not rule out anything else. That assignment, however, has shown that a small nation is important, and we have actually received much more attention to our work in foreign media and abroad than in our locality. That's good to know that e.g. I'm sure what we've been doing on Saudi Arabia has helped these women to be released from the prison in which they were in. They were fighting for human rights. How happy we are when we receive this positive response from an international organization and human rights organization that has greatly encouraged us and thanked us for our work in this regard! But, hey. A senator refers to the high seas. The short answer is that they are not being discounted, for all that is needed. A senator said that the right to sea is right. For a search and rescue center, there is a very long way from us being yielding in this regard. That's one of the things we stress in our lead role at the North Pole, a search and rescue center. There's a coming bill from the highest. Minister of Justice facing such items in the northeastern region, i.e. in Finnfurád. We're setting up a specific area. It is clear that if we ever go to a global search and rescue center, I see no other place than Iceland that can take care of it and no better location than Northeast. So the brief answer is that we're both working with the Justice Department and the State Department. This is one of our priorities in the Arctic Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for these answers. I think it's important, though we understand some things, that they can be discussed here. This has been an excellent conversation over this fine report. I'm going to keep listening, and maybe a minister will come and set me up again, and then a man will come in a second speech, but if not, I'll thank the Minister and the Ministry for this fine report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u36	Madam President. It's a big, big report, and it's killing a lot of things, and it's not an unlimited session, but I'm going to review what I think is most important. V.E.G. A minister of state used a large part of the introductions to commend himself and the Ministry for his work and beyond that, there is nothing about checking the quality of the people under it - and some of the ministers have done quite well. Under his command Iceland has well promoted human rights and equality and the new status of the country to criticize the lack of human rights, e.g. in Saudi Arabia, so that remains. There is good reason to give commendation. In addition, the report is well presented and a fine summary of the entire group of languages. Our position against the UK has been well held now as it is leaving the European Union, but ministers are still going to convince me of the application opportunities for Iceland in this tale of grief. It may be another story, and he's talked about it less and less recently, I think. It is also good to see how strongly the EEA treats the country. Especially when many voices do not seem to allow themselves to be undermined by them, although they may at times be in the form of some kind of light. It is also a joy to see that much international cooperation with countries is the key to a more successful development here and anywhere else in the world. On that point, I wholeheartedly agree with the minister, as well as with the fact that such cooperation is the basis for ensuring national sovereignty. I would have liked to go further in various fields, including In Europe cooperation, in order to get directly to the planning and decision making in terms of cooperation, thus defending our sovereignty even more than we can now. It is also easy and easy to criticize. Ministers for what the government will not do, and also for, I believe, lack of ambition. On page 18. 9 The report contains the subheading: Fatherland leader. Certainly, it's the highest. Minister to refer to the fact that this year Iceland is the Presidency of the Norwegian Ministers, i.e. ... thatwe'llseethisoffice for the next season. He is not, however, comparing the contributions of individual countries on the field, and now he does not necessarily have to be the one who works out there. He must then possess qualities that unite and encourage people to the same extent. The headline only makes you wonder how we stand in comparison with the rest of the states of foreign affairs. This is especially where I refer to developing cooperation. The truth is, it's where we're the trails, dragbusters on the field. I had the option to go with a bang. paritaprevir An Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to Malawi in January or February. and it was quite remarkable to come as a guest in one of the poorest lands in the world, which is also lacking by natural resources. Feelings of joy and grief were disturbed because the people, despite all their smiles, were beautiful and colorful in the midst of all the calamity. However, this trip proved to me how small a nation like Iceland can do amazing things and provide a good way to make the world a better place. At the same time, I was convinced that we should do much better, and we can do better. We cannot accept being less than halfhearted of our cousins when it comes to developing cooperation. At least I'd like to commend the highest. Minister for the first time giving a fixed amount to the International Help Institute, GAVA, which is responsible for the immunization of children. This contribution will give tens of thousands of children the hope of a better life, even life. In addition to the limited use of evolutionary cooperation, it does not mean that about one third of its earmarks are being used in domestic assistance to the trustees and refugees. That assistance is of utmost importance, but it is intended to come from other sources. That's why it's certainly good that Iceland now plans to submit to the DMA's guidelines on these topics from time to time with 2019, I think. We must lie down, all of us, here, and make sure to contribute money if the conclusion becomes necessary. However, our main concern must be to stop viewing our involvement in these large migrations of people that are caused by distress as a sacrifice. Of course, it is a good heart condition to be motivated by such things, but we must also remember that we have international commitments as well as that mankind has a very big interest in the security and acceptable equipment. Then there are countless the tremendous positive effects that immigrants have had and will have in Icelandic culture, in general society, and particularly in the economy. In the U.S. Marshal's report. The minister of state is discussing the international releases that Iceland has to do with refugees and people transport, and this is precisely a stress on the common responsibilities and on the current human rights agreements. I know the alien law isn't exactly at the bottom of my mind. Minister, but he belongs to this government. I can't control to criticize the bill that's presented here, which is a big comeback. I remind you that at the fall of 2017, most vice presidents signed if not all categories announced that the next session would highlight the change in foreigners where the rights of children to escape and sensitive positions would be particularly guided. Sadly, a recent example shows that nothing has been done about it. On the contrary, there is something wrong with us. Madam President. The report also speaks of Iceland as establishing a good reputation for human rights development and that Iceland's international language has not only taken into account the emphasis on gender rights and rights of queer people. I think there are many things that are true, and I think a minister has done a good job when I hear him and I've observed him. So I must also encourage the highest. Minister to speak against the government bill of hate speech that imposes the rights of queer people and other minorities in society. I think it might harm Iceland's influence and reputation abroad. The report goes to the highest level. Ministers in many parts of the field of defense and security, and in fact, I agree basically with him. However, I would like to encourage a minister to emphasize even more emphasis on softer approach, democracy, human rights, cooperation and balance rather than direct interest and military cooperation. I think these values will in the end always be a more successful means of promoting peace and security, but weapons will ever be. Speaking of cooperation and cooperation, we also watch a completely modified world scene, a changed world situation, new drive forces, a new system of power. Instead of the traditional times of the Cold War between East and West, totalitarians and democracy, the situation is much more complex today, and all the other forces are more complex. China is soon to be a leading world power. The United States is on its way, hopefully temporarily. Russia is unpredictable, India and other countries are increasing, and one of the old major powers in Europe is reducing themselves from the EU. More important, there is increasing exposure to extremeism around the world, even in Europe, that is a major concern. In such a reality, I think it is far more important than ever that we strengthen our cooperation with Europe. So it is disappointing, even though this is not a surprise, that the government does not look at ways in this relationship. With the frame rope is drawing when it comes to the dissociative elements, and there I think we're at the highest. Ministers will agree completely. These forces not only harbor prejudice against foreigners but also see reasons for doubting the importance of action, such as the one mentioned. It is difficult to grasp the purpose of subjugating facts and rejecting science unless it is a matter of serving its own interests. It may be useful for individual states and political organizations temporarily to undermine such cooperation and cooperation, but it will never serve the long - term interests of any country and never mankind. You see, mankind is faced with three huge challenges, wars, poverty, and climate pressure, and we simply need to be ready for more international cooperation. My opinion is that our most clear option is a closer European relationship. The EU has been on the lead in the struggle for equality, increasing human rights, and climate. It has also emphasized the battle against global warming and estimated that 25% of its budget will be spent on climate issues until 2027. The United Nations Interpretation Committee on Climates calculates that 2.5% of world production required for climate change until 2035 to maintain warming within 1.5° - and we now go to 3°, I understand. Here in Iceland, in spite of the will and the best source, we simply go too far, and we expect only 0.05% of our land production to take action. It may well be that temporarily Iceland doesn't feel as bad because of the atmosphere. I think maybe we should view the man's journey as a common voyage, but certainly, the countries live in very poor space and experience their voyage in different ways. Some live in luxury living quarters and show up for dinner at the captain's place, while others crawl below deck on a man's farm. Of course, the bad news, Madam President, is that going down is no privilege in drowning in first class. Iceland is a country. Here's a level of education. Human rights are good, equal, and relatively large in international context, although we can do better in our own country. So I think the only real exporter for Icelanders, when it comes to foreign affairs, is worth it. I would like to encourage a minister to continue speaking to them and to remind them wherever he comes and dares, although we are little, to speak plainly as the Council of Human Rights recently did. Even there we can do better, and we should resolve to do so together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a broad and good talk, and much was made to be mentioned. Of course, he made me ashamed to commend myself, it seems to be the line on tonight's talks. But, hey. A senator knows me from an old age, so at middle age, I will not easily be scraped off. But for all the fun we had left, there was a lot of good things that came out here, and I agree with them. A senator on high school. Just as it's said, we've always followed the DiaC guidelines, but now they're changing, and we'll, of course, focus on that. I couldn't agree more. A senator when he speaks of value. We are an example of this by having the values we sense of self - determination, and that is just good. No one wants to go back, at least not in word as far as it goes, because we haven't always had them. We have not always had democracy or human rights or a state of justice, as we have now, and that is an export. The same is true of the importance of international cooperation. I believe we are at a certain point, it is very important for us that we explain the importance of international cooperation, what it gives us directly and how important it is economic and for many other reasons. I think it would be a major harm if a person were to present the same indicators that he is a member of the international cohesion team and that he wants to walk in the European Union. Hv. A senator here referred to values like a democracy. People in the European Union and indeed those outside of it and looking inside feel the sound of democracy in the European Union, and it is a moral criticism, something we have to take seriously. It is my opinion that walking in the European Union is not in harmony with our best interests at all. We agree, however, that international cooperation is essential. We will face great opposition, since humans can tactfully point out that there is not a complete match between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u38	Madam President. Yeah, I talked about the highest. A minister would have praised himself, but I also said that it would be okay if it was earned and confirmed. I think he's done fine in many things. It is important to reflect on values; they need to become more and more a part of our course. That is especially true when we choose allies. I think it really matters that we choose allies who speak for those values and even show what we can only do in word. I praised you very much. A minister for mentioning that it was essential to ensure the sovereignty of performing international cooperation, and I rejoiced at the emphasis he put on such cooperation. I have not said that there is anything that can be said between doing international cooperation and walking in the EU. I said, however, that I thought that maybe there's something that we could do that we can't get through our present system, and then we'd have to call it the highest. The secretary of finance is here because the bond reaches the currency very quickly. No matter how much we choose to work with Europe, I think it's extremely important that we look at things such as human rights, equality, the attitudes of capital punishment, the attitudes of life, and all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again. Then we'll just agree. We agree to disagree on whether it is good to walk in the European Union. We also agree that international cooperation is far more than just being in the European Union. I'm not going in such a short answer to start arguing anything in particular about it. But I wanted to call attention to a few things. If we discuss contributions to development, we do well to consider the developments involved. I'd have any doubt, and it would be interesting if it were. A financial committee would agree that in recent years several individual spending teams have increased as much as contributions to development. Let us never forget - we can debate how we deal with the budget and so on - that it is also of enormous importance how we use this money. Happily, the reviews made on our contribution to development, which is said to be very positive, and that is what really matters. We know, as we do everywhere else, that at times people place money on things that do not work well. But me and the Icelanders can say, on the basis of the estimates made by international surveillance agencies, that we are doing well for the money we contribute. As for the growing application instruments in connection with Bfenit, I have repeatedly pointed to the obvious, and not only I but also the chairman and vice president of the projection, that there are applications when it comes to the fishing exits, the access of the marine exit into Britain. It also creates an application if the British take the direction of the present government, focusing on a global vacation store. The European Union can be criticized for not using its size and position to contribute to the world's vacation market as if it had been possible to name something. It was also a pleasure to see that we had the highest. Secretary of education with good news from their meeting with his colleagues in Britain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u40	Madam President. Yes, as I said in my talk, I feel that these contracts were well held, but I find it risky to talk about a lot of parishion. In particular, I may feel that it is bad when the events that may lead to their parishion are in line with breaking up that I am not at the end. I hope this is going to be a success, but the worst predictors say. We are in such a fleeting world that we are in a world where extremes and divisive elements and isolationists run along. I think it's time we need the highest. Ministers first of all, to protect the interests we have, protect the EEA deal, and I think we can do that. I also rejoice in increased donations for developing cooperation. I realize that the budget has increased more than many because it is also linked to the quality that has been here in recent years and with increasing national production. Even so, we are to be more ambitious. We watch that the next country in the North above is Finland, I think, with 0.79%, and so are the Norwegian and Sweden far above. Surely, then, we can do better. I remind you, and I hope I'm right, that I think it was 1976 that Iceland last accepted some kind of development grant from the United Nations. It's been a while since we were in a bad position, and we'll always remember that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. The secretary of state and staff of the State Department for each year's foreign and international reporting report brought here at the Parliament, first thanking the Ministry's staff for their tireless work worldwide to support Iceland's interests and affairs and presentations in Icelandic culture. How grateful we must be to them for that! The foreign secretary's report on foreign and international affairs is one of the most important documents in every government in the present Parliament when it comes to policy-employing foreign policy and emphasis. It is also a welcome opportunity to increase the way of foreign and international affairs here at the Hall of Congress and to have that exchange. It is something that is regularly called for by members of Congress and others. I'd like to highlight some issues in this report, Madam President. First, the European Court of Human Rights, which is very prominent in Iceland's foreign policy, or as the Treaty states: Iceland's U.S. National Policy is based on clear guidelines on democracy, human rights, equality, sustainable development and peaceful solutions. In addition, this involves the affairs of the sea, the affairs of the north, and the normic cooperation. Some would say that these are very open goals, beautiful goals, relatively loose, and indistinguishable, even with virtually no direction, but rather beautiful promises of emphasis. In fact, some scholars have talked openly about the fact that Iceland's foreign policy is a little bit out and south, and in many respects it is true to me. We need to sharpen our policy regarding foreign affairs. But what opportunities do we have in Iceland to apply ourselves to these international standards? In my opinion, the ideal situation right now is to sharpen our lines of human rights with our very precious seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council. By doing so, Iceland is taking a stand for national security as a global human rights struggle if the cards are carefully held. I must commend the minister of foreign affairs and his staff to the Human Rights Council for a thorough and very successful conduct there regarding the condemnation of Saudi-Araba human rights violations. What a fine example that a small nation can have an influence and an example for larger nations! We also saw the same happen when Iceland first recognized Palestine's West as an independent and sovereign state in 2012. It is hoped that there is no change in policy for the current government on Palestine matters, as many feared when Iceland was sitting by when the United Nations Human Rights Council agreed that international humanitarian and human rights laws should be followed in the occupied areas of Palestine and handed over to the offenders. At least I want to encourage the highest. A foreign minister to accept the independence of Palestine in action and there, a government led by the left movement cannot be replaced by a green supply in the affairs of Palestine adopted in the last government approved by the VG. Another of the most important opportunities to work on human rights, democracy, and respect for law is the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe, which we celebrate for 70 years from the Council of Europe. The next year, we are happy that 70 years will have passed since Iceland became a member of the European Council and thus part of working hard to advance and respect human rights. It was the forwardness and good decision of the Icelandic government of that time, and it has proved to be quite true. Through the European Parliament, the Icelandic government is a member of the European Convention, the greatest legal arrangement in Iceland. The covenant has had a good effect on the legal kingdom of this country. For example, as shown in the Supreme Court Court of Human Rights, he has had a powerful influence on the rights of Iceland's Constitution. The European Court of Human Rights then ensures that Member States will respect the basic rights of the citizens of the Treaty. These important institutions involved in Iceland must respect and care for, provide more money in our area and influence, all in the interests of human rights, both in our country and in other countries, who have less historical experience in democratic governments than we do. Then there is equality, which is one of the clear criteria for Iceland's foreign policy. And what does that really mean? In fact, we are at a critical point when it comes to dealing with the international equality issues, for after the Clade came to be known outside the rocks, it is impossible to say that the exports of the exports have paid value, even molds, a bit or a sour. Our image and reputation of equality have been ignored. Sadly, our respect for equality, which other nations have looked up to in international cooperation, has waned. But perhaps it was always a danger, for many prominent political leaders have tended to view equality as a soft, easy language that would always be easy to speak to and remind in beautiful talks and publications. We need to use the monastery to rethink our priorities in equality in Iceland's foreign policy. Even is equal, as I said, one of the basic criteria of Icelandic foreign policy. And as noted in the lecture of Silja Barar Ómarsdóttir at the recent International Institute for Foreign Affairs Conference in Iceland, Iceland is infested with an equal year of equality. It may be said that it is quite surprising that Iceland's policy is always to promote international equality. Still, there is good reason to believe that we have not gone very far in this regard. For example, we have not been able to change our sensory system, as Sweden does in its feminic foreign policy. I said this in a speech a year ago and I say again: Icelanders are supposed to carry out feminian foreign policy, highlight international gender and equality, increase our contributions to equality in international terms, and further increase our approach to them. We have very good experience from the development team, from our foreign service, and if we want to show the political importance of maintaining a foreign policy that continues with sexual equality completely, we can certainly look to Sweden, who has held out a more targeted and effective feminist foreign policy since 2015. There is much that we can learn from Sweden about this as well as in other things. Of course, I encourage the minister of State and the personnel of the State Department to continue our successful international equality work, to give in and make it more efficient, and to put emphasis on the transformation of the sex system for the good of all, women and men. Then it's the sustainable development that's supposed to be one of the main guidelines for Iceland's foreign policy and how it's showing us in the top report. Secretary of state. We're accepting lead in the Council of North Pole on May 7, but as stated in a report by the highest level. During recent years, the Council of Arctic Council has been established as the most important area of consultation on northern and international political issues. As mentioned in the report, the sustainable development of Iceland's prehumanity will be the main thread. It is a challenging task in a time of climate change that has an enormous impact on the north. Hence, the possibility of climate change, as mentioned on page, will be clouded. 10 to the top. Secretary of state. As far as I'm concerned, it's not appropriate to talk about possibilities involving climate change. It is simply insensitive and insulting to future generations that require drastic measures to cope with climate change. We face the greatest threat mankind has ever faced, and we must exert ourselves vigorously for drastic measures to cope with international emissions, to overcome global warming, and to make the fight against climate change a key factor in Iceland's foreign policy. It is not an option to talk about opportunities or possibilities involving climate change, which is far more than that for all people on earth. Peaceful solutions are also one of the main guidelines for Iceland's foreign policy, and this rhymes very well with the left movement's focus of a green supply. That is why, when it becomes clear that despite the total financial expenditures of this year's financial programme, there has been a large increase in funds to the Atlantic Community over the past few years and is further announced in the report, as military activity has increased in and Iceland in the past decade. The presence of foreign troops in 2007 was 17 days, but during the past three years, foreign troops have been present every day. In 2007, the number of soldiers in Iceland was 225, but in 2017 it had reached 1,030. In recent years the rise in money to war has increased. The funds to NATO have come from 1,592 billion. K. In 2017, 2,185 million. K. to NATO, 2019 C.E. Admittedly, growth of costs to this category is committed by the growing commitments of Iceland within the Atlantic Community and by increasing the temporary presence of the coalition team at the Cheflavour Airport due to the worsening European state of security, including the North Atlantic, as reported in a report by the Supreme Court. Minister. But less than anything, there's a general security assessment. Nothing has been discussed in a Senate Hall. There is no secret behind the confidentiality that only belongs to the National Security Council. And further development is being proclaimed by the U.S. Navy, which has regularly increased the presence at the Cheflavour Airport, and at the same time, new projects will be under attack to support this presence. This great increase simply requires a thorough explanation and discussion at a council, Mrs. President, and this trend resents the emphasis of the left movement when it comes to promoting peaceful solutions completely. To be honest, I would have liked to see the more emphasis my government political movement has on peace and peaceful solutions, not increasing the presence of a foreign army and increase in money for defense during a long government led by left green. But maybe this can be the best. Secretary of State explained better in their resistance. We also know that the most powerful instrument to promote peace is to reduce inequities. The emphasis on foreign affairs in the United States must, in my opinion, be without witness. This can be done to help by reducing inequities in the use of international talks, publications, and direct measures to match the world's ideals. But as we know and have been mentioned in our discussion today, there is an increasing inequities among the greatest threats to world peace. Inconsistencies in access to resources and natural quality are often the source of conflict, poverty, and social degradation, resulting in unfair discrepancies among the world's population and leading to harsh conflict. A gap between humans is the basis for peace. That's what Iceland's gonna have to do and do it completely. We need to be fearless in our international emphasis to promote and direct ourselves in the process of bringing about radical changes in how we interfere with the interests of governments as well as within them, such as between classes, genders, and races. Iceland has to work on an international economic equation between people that reduces the risk of conflict breaking out. Then it comes to what I feel I've been talking about all too many times, but it's Iceland's focus when it comes to developing cooperation. It is certainly a blessing to know that, at last, Iceland's contribution to developing cooperation is to increase gradually over the next few years and, as in the past, I welcome the emphasis on Iceland's development team, which centers on controlling women and girls in developing countries and promoting their access to education. But like others, I would have liked to see an even more ambitious goal in Iceland's budget for developing cooperation and that we would finally fulfill our promise to meet the United Nations target to provide 0.7% of the nation's income for development cooperation, and thereby finally order us to join the countries we are all concerned with. Unfortunately, Iceland still provides too much of that information for development cooperation with refugees and refugees here in the country. The fact that these funds are part of the official development aid of Iceland in foreign countries simply does not match the general definition of development cooperation, nor is it consistent with Iceland's focus on developing cohesion. This ratio is mentioned in the last peer circulation of the DiaC Committee, which is less than 12◯13% of Iceland's resources involved in the case of refugees and the restitutors of developing financial resources. We hope that most of us can agree that there is indeed a need to increase money to a domestic group of inmates and refugees who come to us for international protection, but that is not to be taken away from money in developing cooperation. The causes of refugees and the hospices in this country fall under the Department of Health and Internal Affairs and should be separate from Iceland's contribution for international development. To that end, Iceland has to accept responsibility and put people in need to help out, both by accepting more refugees and by supporting people in being able to live with dignity in other parts of the world. Iceland has a moral obligation to increase its contribution in evolutionary and humanitarian matters. You see, all of us are required to do all we can in the human spirit that continues to develop the empathy that unites us all so that we can solve our most difficult problems. If the government's budget is in place. The minister of state is coming to the welcome of those seeking refuge and refugees at that time will be the highest. Secretary of State to take responsibility for and answer for policies in the affairs of the trustees and people who are here looking for international protection. Many say that this policy has gone very hard. For example, we have seen endless reports and reports of the fact that children, women, and families are being brought into a delicate position by a country that is looking for international protection here. It's the money that comes from the Ministry. Secretary of state. Then the Minister must clarify that course. A respectable president. I welcome what is stated in the report on the sustainable use of natural resources and a wholesome environment as Iceland's largest interests and essential independence in the present and future. We know that increasing exposure to earth's resources and man's impact on its climate results in people's extreme climate, a shift in resources, and a change in natural resources, thus endangering mankind itself. As countries, we have accepted various international agreements and commitments that involve environmental and environmental action against climate change, and I, of course, encourage foreign ministers to maintain it at all times. Finally, I would like to remind you that Iceland is going to carry out independent foreign policy and that internationally emphasis on peace, human rights and humanity, justice and democracy. We are to be direct and confident when it comes to maintaining our international good work despite our smallness. You see, few countries have accomplished wonderful things in the international context, and we are no exception, and this, of course, makes us the most of all in the active international work and cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, she was in many places. They are shocked and out of speech with each other. A senator's concern about how much we are doing in our foreign service when it comes to the values we agree on in this room. The eye is good, and I think it would be good for you. Senators listening to international humanitarian organizations that are fighting for human rights talk about what we're doing in the Human Rights Council. I got it. I got it. Foreign Affairs Committee to go and meet with those members, e.g. of Geneva. We do not need to be anxious when compared with any other nation, far, far from it, and not merely our efforts, which were not small. It didn't take long, and there wasn't much work to do when it came to Saudi Arabia. [[Up front.]] Although others have done something excellent, there is no need to speak down what we do. We show that a small nation is important, and we are certainly slang, walking straight behind us, and fighting for the values we agree on. If everyone walked out like an Icelander, the Human Rights Council would be far more effective than it is today. This may be because people talk about our friends in Sweden, that when it comes to the scales we use, we are more than they are when it comes to equality. In fact, people look to the North, but especially to Iceland, because we've been at the top when it comes to equality and we haven't seen any shadow there. I think, more dignified President, we should be proud of that. I think there is a solidarity in this room as far as we're concerned. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to such matters, we can compare ourselves with everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u43	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of State for the opposition, but I have to admit I don't quite understand what he was going to do. I was commending the minister of foreign affairs and his staff at the Human Rights Council for a thorough and very successful march when it comes to condemning the violation of the human rights of Saudi Arabia. As far as I'm concerned, it's had a good effect on the world. As far as I can remember, it's mentioned in the highest report. Minister that it has been designed to form a part of improving the rights of a certain group of women in Saudi Arabia, which is excellent and excellent. I repeat my compliments to the highest. Minister. Similarly, I am amazed at the abode we made in a vote on Palestine's affairs. That's what I mentioned. I fully agree that despite our small size, we can do great things, such as the condemnation of human rights violations in Saudi Arabia, as well as the acceptance of our Icelands in Palestine as an independent and sovereign state, which was adopted in this hall and I am very proud that we made the first Western. When it comes to the equality issues and the Swedes and testimonials that are involved in equality - and now is the time to run away from me, and I may come to see that, later, President of Sweden - it is good to report that the standards used in the case of equality have often been criticized by organizations that fight for sexual equality. They often measure no violence against women, the justice system, the sexual abuse of the justice system, etc. [[The president calls.]] It has certainly been noted that while we may be acting in such a way as to measure, the standards themselves have not been free from criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Only out of Palestine - that is in full harmony with our foreign policy. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has called for information on what will be passed on to the Foreign Affairs Committee. There is no change. I can't go through it in a short answer, but I'm sure it's a good case. I mean, about something like that. A senator mentioned. First of all, we've always been in DAC regulations. Now they're changing the FAC rules, but that's to keep following them. However, there is an agreement, not only in the Ministry of State, but also in the Ministry of Justice when it comes to DAC regulations. So it's about the State Department taking advantage of some money. They don't hear us. They don't hear us. This, however, plays together. Then the possibilities for climate change. You have to talk about things the way they are. These are both threats and, of course, opportunities to open the shipping routes. In fact, although these things do occur for bad reasons, a lower inflation by ships when they sail shorter than longer distances. That's why we even lay down. Emphasis on search and survival, because traffic will go up tremendously. We are concerned that there is an increase in the likelihood of environmental accidents, but we are now on national track in terms of these routes. You can't discuss that case any other than they are. There are threats and opportunities. This doesn't come out of good quality, like cot. A senator refers to, and there is no dispute, but this is the situation. This is what's happening, and there we have to work with other nations, that there's no harm to the environment in the area or accidents in people who can easily get more traffic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u45	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. In terms of the language and opportunities and possibilities, I must allow myself to disagree on that. Words matter. Words come with responsibility. The ability to speak is important and effective. When we talk about opportunities and possibilities in climate change, we simply oversee the tremendous problem we face, a threat to the world's population. We are to be careful when talking about the changing environment, which leads to the opening of shipping routes, etc., not to talk about it as opportunities and opportunities. It is simply not the right message when we are handling this huge task, which is resisting international climate change. With regard to the financial benefits of developing cooperation and the items that are going to take in the favor of those who are in pursuit of international protection, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier: If the money goes directly or indirectly from the State Department's funds, Ministers of State must also have to represent the policies that have been offered here and have been criticized by many, which are about to refer people to a very delicate position, children, women, families, of land to other countries where their safety is not 100% secure. If so, a foreign minister must simply represent that policy or direct it to other activities. If the policy is to continue the welcome of the inmates and refugees in this country, of the developing cooperation money, it will be the highest. Minister of state to be responsible for the resources and the policy relevant to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u46	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for a good discussion of foreign affairs today and a very extensive and informative report. Secretary of state. In my opinion, we don't often discuss foreign affairs here at the General. I'm concerned that limited business discussions have the impact that the public may be. not well informed about Iceland's policy of foreign affairs, our participation in international cooperation of various kinds, especially the Norwegian countries, as well as in various international institutions, treaties, and alliances. It's, for example. □ On the contrary, much of the country's population believes that we are not involved in a surveyed military alliance, but Iceland became an international stock agreement of NATO signed in 1949. So that is exactly 70 years ago. The national security and protection community is good and increasing, but the main team of cooperation is NORDEFCO. Since Iceland is an unarmed state, we join in the civil part of our cooperation. There is increasing emphasis on national security and a growing cooperation in the norse countries who are successfully cooperating with the Baltic States as well as with international institutions, such as the Atlantic Alliance or the European Security and Cooperation Agency and the United Nations. In my opinion, the Internet security is one of the classes that we as a nation should emphasize and should continue to be very close to our major allies. As a nation, we do not have the ability to control powerful networks on our own. Indeed, in cooperation, we can do our part in the form of knowledge and human wealth, which, of course, we should do as much as possible. V.E.G. President. The work of the Icelandic emissary is also important, but you sometimes hear about it as unnecessary. Some say that it is best to close them all up and meet them with telecommunications equipment when necessary and to make use of the government's funds for others and more needed items, such as health care and road construction. Of course, politics is part of the matter of setting priorities for money. I believe that money is well spent, which is used in the process of delivery, as it plays a significant role in civil service, business transport development, and, most important, commercial markets in Icelandic culture. A special consideration of the office's operations is provided on page 873/4113 of the secretary's report. This section also provides an overview of the main projects and priorities of Iceland in our regular committees at NATO, Rome, New York, and Vienna. Iceland's representatives at these locations represent several international institutions at their local level. In Rome, the regular committee has, for example. responds to the UN Food Programme, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the Development Fund for Agriculture. A permanent representative regularly attends every meeting of the institutions, taking special care of developing international cooperation and the special interests of Iceland. In 2018, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, short - term FAO, prepared a treaties for illegal fishing, waste in water, and ghost nets left in a fishing area. That contract was completed at the beginning of this year, with four years in force. There, Iceland supports important activities in these areas using direct financial contributions and expert assistance. Our contribution is certainly important in cooperation with the nations. We need to be in constant and personal contact with people around the world to care for Iceland's interests, for in times of trial it is often the personal relationship of individuals who make it possible to solve complex situations or issues. Teamwork is late being overrated. Mr. President. Before going to the Norwegian partnership, I have to mention two special things that have been on my mind during the last few days and weeks in connection with the discussion of the third energy package. This is our cooperation with Liechtenstein, Switzerland, and Norway through EFTA as well as our involvement in the European Economic Area, EEA, which was signed in 1994. The EFTA Member States have made their own free trade agreements, the EFTA Convention, as well as common free trade agreements with non-EU countries aimed at ensuring enterprises from the EFTA best commercial holdings wherever they choose to do business. EFTA has made 29 free business contracts with 40 non-EU countries and 26 of them have gone into effect with Iceland. EFTA also creates a partnership area for Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein with the EU based on the European Economic Area Convention, the European Commission Convention, but the fourth EFTA, Switzerland, is not a party to that agreement. I believe that our cooperation in EFTA, as well as our involvement in the EEA, the European Economic Area, has meant a great deal to us and has played a major role in the quality of life that has developed in recent decades here. However, I fear that many have no idea what the EEA is, what EFTA is, and most important, how our participation has affected people's everyday lives here for a long time because of these contracts and their cooperation. People in their 40's, for example. It was hardly part of a so - called adult life when the EEA Convention was signed in 1994. As a result, people and younger ones are badly aware of the changes in that contract. We may take our access to 500 million people for granted, which it certainly is not. Do we want to go back? Not me. Some have a strong desire for the past, and they see what was once in a rosy glow. Just like the tortlers, who are in the mind of some of the symbols of romance while reality was different and had nothing to do with romance. Cold, saw, bad smell, dark and smoke. No, we don't want to go there. The EEA contract is very important to us, and we must not threaten that good cooperation in any way. I was, like others, at a annual conference in the University of Iceland shortly ago on international matters. The conference was very informative, both the trade and the placard talks that followed. During discussions with Bbifit, including to the most common search engine on the British Google search engine the day after the Bgreit election was: What is the European Union? Why are the British in the European Union? We now see what wrong information has led the British. Yeah, in a lot of trouble that doesn't cover the end. Mr. President. It's worth considering. Misinformation can have a very damaging effect and, in fact, undermined by democracy. We need to be alert to such threats. It is easy to forget about the secretary's report. But since I am in charge of the head of the Council of Iceland, I am under obligation to talk about the good work that is being done in that area. National cooperation is and has long been the cornerstone of Iceland's foreign policy. The Northern Council is a member of the Council of Churches in the official Norwegian partnership, and many of the rights common in the Northern countries are rooted in the Council of the Northern Country, established in 1952. The aim of the Council of the North is to increase cooperation between the norse countries by carrying out progressive ideas and recommendations directed to the Norwegian Ministers and the states of the Northern countries. Foreign Ministers are meeting very regularly, and Iceland's emissaries are in good contact with North American coal at home and from home at the United Nations as well as with other international institutions. It may be possible for the North countries to run their embassy in a common area in Berlin. It's given us a great deal. But what's the significance of the Norwegian co-work for Iceland? Teamwork at the National Council is of great importance to Iceland. Of course, Iceland is a small country, so normic cooperation gives us a set foundation internationally. We are united in other northern countries in the main challenges and opinions of the international environment. That is how the North countries often speak in one voice, e.g. When it comes to security, climate, and equality. The northern nations also share a common view of fundamental values, such as the importance of human rights, democracy and justice, and the peaceful solution to issues. In these areas, northern nations are a global guide and emphasis on sharing their knowledge to promote communities in other parts of the world. V.E.G. President. Political footholds, powerful foreign trades, and cooperation in culture, education, science, and evolution are the benefits of Norwegian cooperation, and strength consists of the amazing number of people who share in the cooperation each day. We are no doubt stronger together. Iceland has had many major roles in this year's Norwegian cooperation. There we have served as the head of the Norwegian Minister, executive at the cooperation of the Norse Foreign Minister, called N5, and the cooperation of the Foreign Minister of the North and Baltic States, NB8, as well as the seat of the Board of the World Bank in Washington DC on behalf of the NB8 Group. The sea's products are one of the things Iceland stresses in all the Norwegian diplomacy and the proposed prehumanity of the Arctic Council. I'm worried that I don't have time to finish the entire talk so that I'm going to run over a further discussion on the Norwegian, but I'm going to go to the developing team, which I'm also interested in. The issues of development cooperation are well understood in the secretary's report on page 70◯83. That's what I'd like to say, we've done well in that situation. By developing cooperation and humanitarian assistance, we show that we are a nation among the nations. We have been diligent in taking advantage of our expertise in various areas of building wood, to form in the field of geothermal warming, land healing, fishing, and, especially, in equality. An example of an outstanding project of geotrophication is the work of 13 member countries in the Great Sigdal of East Africa, discussed in the report that Iceland has led since 2013 in cooperation with the Norwegian Development Fund NDF. The project is linked to the U.S. will of Iceland's and World Bank on the increase in geological temperature use in the region. It officially ended in 2017. The implementation of several to-dos has been delayed but will be over this year. It is then to examine in detail how the continued support of geo-gravity development can be provided in East Africa and the expected suggestions for the assessment of Iceland's geothermal project and will be used by NDF for this work. There is also a report by the Minister of Ministers on the area of rurality that Iceland has established in Western Africa. Early this year, the Sierra Leone and Liberia Association was signed on new cooperation projects supporting the world target of No. 14 life in water, the sustainable use of marine resources and the protection of the ocean. Both countries have considerable opportunities to build jobs and jobs related to fishing, as well as good fishing grounds from their shores. The project has been prepared in close cooperation with the World Bank on Fish and Governments in the respective countries. The United Nations High School of Marine School is a key cohesive member of the project and the school will offer specialized training in directing the objectives of the project. In 2018, studies were conducted in the use and analysis of data and shipping systems for key fishermen from these countries as well as Ghana. At that time, the prototypes of new and improved smokefowls for fish were designed and created in cooperation with Matis and local engineering institutions. The new ovens, in particular, put women in a fishing operation and reduce the use of firewood and contamination of health. An important part of the project involves improving water and hygiene in fishing villages as well as combating plastic pollution and focusing on recycling. It was signed under contract with UNICEF, which will be the cooperation of Iceland in the countries, and will lead to the introduction of these projects into cooperation with the European government. With this project, Iceland takes its first steps in new cooperation with these two countries, both of which face vast poverty and have weakened infrastructure. Mr. President. These are assignments that we can be proud of. Iceland's contributions to developing work have been widely discussed and seem to be on a personal level. In comparison with our neighboring nations, our donations have been relatively low but are increasing. The report shows that the government plans to contribute to development in the coming years and aims for 0.35% of the budget of national income in four years. It may be that there is now a considerable amount of work being done in the Ministry on a review of procedures followed by the Ministry's Developmental Cooperation Department on the DAC rules. This year, in March of March, the CDC agents arrived and sat here on the meeting, including with the development team, which was being explained work on the basis of statistics on this to-do so that overlooking all expenditures and Member States would be comparable to contributions for development cooperation. So far, we've been comparing apples and oranges because things aren't calculated the same way all over the world. That's very bad. However, this work is taking place, and it is reported in 2020 by the Minister of Minister DAC. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say that cooperation in all areas is always beneficial, in the Norse field, in the field of development cooperation and/or economic activities, especially for small countries like us. We must never belittle the fact that the basis for such cooperation is that we are a sovereign and an independent state. It is our ticket into this cooperation that has given us so much and hopefully will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u47	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of state for the report, and will join in with another. Councilmen that it's very good. The report is available and detailed, and it is clear that it had a significant ambition, mainly in international work, cooperation, and opportunities for Iceland. I'd also like to thank you for the opportunity that we senators have to take up a conversation about foreign affairs in this room. Not every day, unfortunately, especially since discussions such as on this report are broader and deeper than often. We need to try to discuss such matters more frequently, and it is unacceptable to go deeply into every aspect of the report. There is an occasion for more and more special discussions about foreign affairs. It is clear that this extensive report on a number of subjects, from the state service and civil services organization as well as international cooperation for detailed discussions and data on reports from the European Union and Iceland's interests. Civil, security, and development cooperation are discussed, all in a special discussion. I hear that rather good harmony is about the main ingredient of the report in the hall. As a result, there is a way to ensure national security and protection, economic interests, and to honor basic human rights, human kindness, and equality wherever we come. Despite differences in focus, as we know, as an example of participation in the European Union and participation in the Atlantic Union, these aspects of the day's foreign policy debate are not handled specifically. In this country, further knowledge of foreign affairs, knowledge of international cooperation and security and increased knowledge of public and public and community discussions on these issues is needed. A discussion of international relations can be developed rapidly and perhaps often in the direction we especially want to do so. These include free business discussions. I think it's safe to say that individuals aged 45 years and younger know little more than to be able to do most free business between countries, to be able to educate abroad, and even to work there, and to continue. So we take it for granted. Of course, none of this is, and we are constantly seeing more examples of political leaders wanting to interfere with business dealings between countries, to put on customs barriers, business heads, military legislation, and so forth. Therefore, it is up to us to maintain the importance of the free trade between countries, with all the benefits they bring. It may be wondered whether we will discuss the EU together enough. I've thought about it before, and I'm not going to get into it here, but hopefully we'll have time for it later in the year when we'll talk to the top of the report. Minister on the EEA case. I'm glad to see more emphasis at the highest. Minister of interest in the EEA. I'd like to specifically introduce a few aspects of the report and describe my joy with the full report. It is clear and clear, easy to read to people, no matter how much depth and knowledge they actually possess in foreign affairs. It is particularly good to have a better access to the work and the work of the foreign service, as we receive in the report. Also clear transponder, et cetera. It is important that members of Congress and the public have good access to the organization and activities of the ministry for the extensive work that has been done in many areas and for information on how money is prepared. But I'd like to first mention Iceland's office at the Human Rights Council, which has been very successful, as more members have observed. I'm happy with Iceland's career in the council, and it's clear that I've been successful in doing that work. The attention they have received is great, and it has the highest. Ministers and escorts are doing a very good job. The news reports of all over the world relate this, mainly about violations of human rights in Saudi Arabia, while criticism of government progress there has given rise to great attention. It is important that we be on guard, especially about freedom of speech, human rights, and even our own. our demand for an independent and impartial investigation of the murder of Khashoggi. It's got a lot of attention, and it's a good thing for Iceland to make such an example, because Iceland, as a small country, can be pretty big on many matters. I look forward to watching the meetings that will take place in June and July, where equality issues will be even. Focused on the Human Rights Council. There, we can only share our experiences and be proud of how far we have reached them. Other nations look to us when it comes to equality, and we are expected to stand firm and give nothing to try to do better at the same time as we share our experiences with other nations, but this is the tenth year in a series that we are at the top of the list. Iceland is a protection for equality at all fronts, to form in the United Nations, and in the development of Iceland's anything, really. That's okay with the report. If so, I would like to mention only the branch of our home emissary, as discussed in chapter 10 of this report. We will have experience with that new arrangement, but in my opinion, the beginning is very promising. It is hoped that this will bring about an increase in national interests in more countries, a specific economy at the same time, and will promote cooperation with countries where Iceland's interests need to be cared for. I look forward to observing that project and seeing how it goes within the Ministry. It is also fun to see that the report, with a large amount of material, contains goals and projects from the Ministry of State to the future. A minister brought in at the beginning of his career. It is good to be able to monitor the progress of the good projects in the future report. It has a name with a slide, the Habitat Guard in the changing world. It is the ever - changing world that much of the foreign service is trying to answer and to try to change. There is going to be a lot of technical development, and foreign services cannot be left by boat. We'll see with the report, with the home mails and all other assignments that we don't give up. I think we can be very proud of that project, and we'll be happy to see how it goes in the report itself. We see that we have to be careful about the defenses, put them first when we face a changed security environment. It involves much, the work of the National Security Council, the cooperation of the Northern countries, and our leadership, soon, in the Arctic Council, where we will be among large countries and will have much to say. We will be able to achieve our focus for the next two years, and of course, it is our best to stand guard and work for peace in the territory. I like the solidarity that exists with that matter. Like other European countries, our active participation in security is important and we can do much to help. We can talk, and we have done so, the case of equality, democracy, human rights, and freedom of business. I am also happy to see in this report the emphasis is on the highest. Secretary of the Internet, whether in the United Nations, NATO, NB8, or anywhere else. I welcome our agreement with the NATO network and the cooperation we have with neighboring countries. We in Iceland have to be part of the discussion going on in the countries around us and in the countries that we cooperate with with with them. From one to another. I'd like to enter the development team. I was very lucky to have this year's chance, like the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, to examine our cooperation with Malawi. This is a two - sided cooperation, a development team we've been in for 30 years, and particularly in this region, in the Mangochi region national project. It was admirable, I'll say, to see the results we've achieved over the last few years, to see the structure of educations, all the classrooms, all the development, how much it's changed the school leaving. This is most important when it comes to access these students to education that is in order, that there is food available, and the teachers in the field. All of this, Iceland has made sure of Mangochi for a lot of kids. We meet teachers who were taught teachers in Iceland, and we have started teaching children in schools we've built up, in benches with a number of students. It was so good to see it. Little Iceland - but still so big - can do great things. Clearly, such two - sided cooperation is going well with us, and we are successful. We see the structure, we see that schools can become self-sustained when we start focusing on other projects in the district. For example, over that is covered in the report, cool figures, and pictures about everything that has been done. These include water fountains, maternity services, etc. We have reduced mortality due to women's childbearing, and for example, about 16,000 people have better access to water and hygiene. Because of this, we can be very proud, and how happy we were to have the opportunity to see this firsthand! It's totally different to read about such things in a report and to see how much we can do in a region like Mangochi. We are on two-way cooperation in two countries, and the project is large, for cooperation with countries that are considered by the poorest countries in the world. It is clear that we are doing well, and it is well discussed in the Minister's report. Then I can hardly let go of Baltrexit and conversation that have been held by the Foreign Affairs Committee on British exits from the European Union. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for good consultation with the committee. It's been a lot. We've got all the information we've wanted, all the meetings and the highest. Ministers have often arrived with members of the Ministry. Clearly, the situation has not been easy. It changes rapidly that this thing that runs out here on Bgret could become out - of - date pretty soon. What will not be out - of - date is that Britain is among the most important markets for Icelandic exports, and that makes me very happy about how Iceland has handled matters. It is well within the third thousand of the Icelanders who live there, and we are guarding the interests of our people and our professional lives, regardless of what Britain leaves our partnership. This is important, and we can be very proud of our ambitious work. Finally, since my time is running out, there are many other factors mentioned in this report that give rise to more discussion. Finally, I want to talk about what I started with, the importance of more discussing foreign affairs, not just in this room but in the community. They definitely matter to us more than we often realize. This is an improvement, and it is vital that we discuss our cooperation, the challenges we face, where we will remain in our interests, where we will do well, and where we can do even better, and especially the opportunities that will lead to success in our foreign service. I think the discussion here is a benefit. This report contains an enormous amount of material that can be used to address all aspects of foreign affairs. So I welcome her and thank her very much for the discussion that has been in this room and will remain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u48	A respectable president. Now I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator and president of the State Department of State, Álaguist Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndo, before a extensive talk that covered much of the journey. I want to say the final words. Senator. I don't think it's ever been more important that we discuss foreign affairs now. Some might say, "Wait, why don't we discuss them here in this room? ' That's enough, isn't it? No, that's not enough. I don't think there's anyone's leaning, even if I say so. A senator is the singlest member of the republic and even more widely sought. It is important that we use such things to get information out of the way, interest people in these matters. We are also in the Ministry to take steps in this regard; this is the way to get information going. Hv. A senator over many things, but I felt that the basic tone was that we Icelanders have so much to do with international relations. Actually, I'll admit that I'm rather busy talking about the economic factor. He's just a little bit of this. As in the European Economic Area: Of course, we are talking about scientific cooperation and other activities. So it is also that the ideas and currents and policies that are important to us, we get through international cooperation. All of us want to hold our sovereignty, our beach egg, and I want to believe that we also want to keep our arms around the nation. Neither one is an Icelandic invention. This is something we got from somewhere else. Although we may as well say that something is Icelandic, at least we have influenced it, it is now that if we want to live here as if we want to see them become the best in the world, we have to watch what happens in other places. We need to influence our interests, and we do so only to have an active share in international activities. Thank you. A senator named and wοuldn't. The committee. I don't always agree with all the committees. [[The president calls.]] But this is a very powerful Foreign Affairs Committee under the leadership of a man. Senator. That's extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. It is true that we as a nation here in the north can also contribute a great deal to a discussion of free trade. We see threats in this subject, political leaders, such as I mentioned, who preach customs and probably feel that it is being discussed in 2019 C.E. That is exactly how we can stand firm and speak for free business, so we must not forget. It's also true to the highest. A minister will agree that international and international cooperation must be discussed, what are the benefits of international cooperation, which are the faults, of what we get out of it. Because there are so many worldwide activities today that we take for granted. We take the standard of life that it will take for granted, we take the freedoms it will bring for granted, we take the business of it for granted. You see, it's not all probably, and it can change pretty fast. It's our job to protect it, whether it's up to the discussion here in this room, inside the bed. A foreign business committee or a community center or in the community. We have to keep people informed, take the discussion, and they need to realize that there's a lot of money at times. The EEA is threatened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u50	All right. A senator said here. I also want to say the most positive thing I've ever found in this discussion today and not just with him. paritaprevir Slagful Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter. We've got parties here, haven't we? Parliaments of different categories, h. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. paritaprevir Logi Mayr Már Einar Einarsson, so I'll take these different categories. All these why. Councilmen referred to - and encouraged me and the government - to keep our values, as it were. A senator referred to us as being absolutely certain. No, I'm sure it's not. We're in a smaller part of the world, we're less of the world's population that we live in these values that we talk about as if we're completely self-condent. I agree with what happened. A senator suggests that it may be the first time for a very long time to hear a appeal, especially when it comes to a free international exchange, by voices in Iceland that we heard a long time ago. There's nothing you can talk about that other than that. It's very important that we react immediately, take action. Because everyone will suffer badly, but mostly from the country of Iceland, if we lose anything from the emphasis that has been a transnational community for decades when it comes to highlighting free trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u51	A respectable president. I just want to say that it's just as brief as that. Ministers enter, it is easy to lose sight of how large the world is and how few we are, the countries that are guided by these values. I think we can see that most in international cooperation, such as when I go to the council for the International Assembly - when you see the whole world within the same room - how few countries are protecting human rights and democracy. It is this point of view that more people need to realize. Because it has rarely been more important for us and other nations who have these values to be more loud and to take action. Like we're doing in the Human Rights Council. It's all important. I think there's a lot of opportunities for us in foreign service and I'm going to thank you again at the highest. Minister for this report and good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u52	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Foreign Minister for a clear report, it's done well, and I also thank the State Department personnel for their contribution to this important work. There are some facts in this report. Some things might explain a little bit more. I'll find out later. I would like to agree with what has been said here on the importance of the practice of a good and perfunctory debate over foreign affairs. We have, as we've seen and mentioned in the case of the highest order. Ministers, much under international cooperation and international relations. My opinion is that I don't feel that the Allied has taken, so to speak, this party is sufficiently serious in its activities, e.g. the defence issue. Of course, they are very important to us, and in a few years we have experienced great changes in that language. The increased Russian presence in the North Atlantic and the focus in Eastern Europe have shown that this category is very important. At the same time, for example, NATO's Iceland department is reserved for three members of the council, of whom there are, at least, five groups. That's what I think I need to fix. We'd have to increase the number of agents, e.g. of NATO Iceland, simply so that a body of Congress is better informed on the course of this important matter. Mr. President. There are many things to note in this report, and I especially want to thank for the graphic presentation contained in the report on page 5. 12 and 13 and more. She's bright and good. I will first move on to what is discussed on the page. 7 on the European Union's interests. It is at the highest rate. A minister to answer, as it were: ◯ I am confident that if we maintain the right to the cards when it comes to the field interestkeeping, we will ensure that we will continue. I'd like to stick around for a little bit and ask if we're good at the cards. I'll give you the agricultural stuff. I think we've kept our cards at a low level in terms of agriculture. We record in the 2009 European Union Food Directive. I don't think anyone would have thought that ten years later we would have to authorize the import of raw meat to the country that will be in the autumn months. The cards could've been kept a lot better here. The import of raw meat poses a tremendous number of demands for the European agriculture industry, and our clean agriculture is a threat to the import of raw meat. That's what the best experts have said and pointed out. Sadly, our defenses have not held, so to speak, and we have been condemned to import raw meat. Then there is another big, big matter that is a three - pack of energy, which has led to a large discussion in the community, and we have to ask ourselves, " Have we kept our cards in good balance in that regard? ' I don't think so. I believe this so - called expert route, which has been announced, by enforcing that a cable can be placed here only with the authority of the Generals, does not come about in time. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that we need not worry about this. Nothing will happen after this case is accepted, if that's the case. This is exactly what happened in a so-called raw meat language. Nothing happened after we accepted the food law, but ten years later we need to import raw meat. Then I ask, what will happen ten years after we have approved the energy package, if it is approved? With the energy package, we are simply preparing the soil for what should come, one of the markets of electricity in Europe. Let's not forget that electricity prices in Iceland are the lowest in Europe. This is 18 bucks. While she's about 43 kr. correspondent in Denmark I'll tell you, I don't think we've been very good at these things. In addition, the report says: "In this regard it is important to remember that this great gain has been achieved without Iceland's significant sacrifice. I just want to protest this sentence, chief. President. Indeed, we have had to sacrifice our own interests, and that is what we did in agricultural pursuits. We're good to go. I'm amazed at this presentation in the report. It continues to say that our agricultural policy similarly takes into account the Icelandic situation. Commencing the current agricultural policy by allowing raw meat to be given Icelandic conditions, the highest. Minister? I think it's good to have the answer. I don't like the phrase in the report, and I'm a little surprised at it. Next, I'd like to agree with the international and foreign section on page 5. 20 About Russia The report shows that it is important to maintain good communication, so it is in harmony with the direction of other Western governments to communicate with Russian rulers at the highest level of government. I like this because it's important to keep in touch with the Russians. Even if we do not agree with their actions in Ukraine and have criticized them for doing business, we have to continue and make use of this conversation. to criticize what we believe is critical. The report says: However, a talk with the Russian government on the grounds of the import ban is active and continues to try to defuse matters. I would have liked to know more about that from the highest point of view. Minister of what this is all about. As a result, China is discussed with the loss of barriers to exporting lamb to China. I'd like to celebrate this especially, and also to discuss how to make better use of a vacation deal between Iceland and China. It's a very remarkable deal and a little sad that it couldn't have been made better. I'm glad these things are to be discussed, and especially what comes in there, a plan flight between China and Iceland. What a joy it would be if it worked out and would definitely be a good injection into the tourism service at the time she needs it! Besides, I welcome what was presented here in the talk of the Kingdom News. A minister says that maybe it's the first step we might be taking in getting a free trade deal with Japan. It's very important, and I'd like to congratulate a minister, and hopefully it'll work. Then, on page 19. 21 Chapters of the Middle East, in particular, the Yemen and the Icelandic government set 100 million. K. contribution to emergency assistance in Yemen last year. I'm especially glad to hear it. One disaster story is the war in the Yemen. Each day, between 2017 and 2018, 130 children died from hunger and disease in the Yemen. There is indeed a need to be strengthened in building up there and in the need for relief. Later in this chapter, the government's conduct in Saudi Arabia in the armed conflict in the Yemen as well as their violation of human rights on its own citizens and criticism of Iceland in that regard. - I see, Mr President, that my time is over and I would like to be put back on the rosary and will take a closer look at what I said about the performance of Iceland in the Council of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech, and I'll be glad and happy to answer what it says. If you have been misinformed about a pack of three energy, it's basically the middle party's internality, that's the situation. If you're worried about a cable, you should have a sledgehammer. A senator talking to his chairman about that case, for no Icelandic politician has gone further in an effort to establish a sealine between Iceland and Britain. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Here at the Assembly Hall, a news announcement announced that it should be done with British prime minister David Cameron. Without any discussion, his government agrees that we're going to the PCI list that we've taken ourselves off. It is then carefully traced to the Parliament's odor proposal, in the energy package report, and also in response to questions about the nature of the problem. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, how the Department of State at the time, when the Middle Class had it, evaluated the matter. They weren't worried about it at all. I haven't heard a scholar say, or anyone who's seen the case, that in the third energy package there's something that's ever going to oblige us to lay down a cable. There's nothing there, there's no way. They've been asked for two leaves, they've been delivered. It was, we can tell you, the responsibility of the Central Party what was requested and what was given. I'm not prepared to say that humans have not kept their cards properly in terms of interest protection from the third energy package. If so, it's part of the Central Party, and it's clear. Each individual who examines the matter can see this. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should now discuss this within the council. So you just have to come here and tell them what they didn't do, what they should have done, and what are the dangers, because this is the whole matter of the Middle Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u54	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and would have chosen to have answered my questions, such as regarding Russia, which I specifically asked. It's quite clear to me, and we're just against it, that I think our interest protection on a pack of three wasn't strong enough. I don't understand why the highest. Minister is so fearful of saying no to this pack of energy, taking the case for the joint EEA committee, and getting the conclusions that come to be held, hopefully, that we get an exception from this energy package. The state of electronic energy in Iceland is very different from that in the European Union. We know that the purpose of this package is to coordinate the energy prices, that this will be one market area. That means that energy prices in Iceland are coming up. Energy prices increased in Iceland by bringing an energy package to homes and companies alone. It's crystal clear, and I know it myself. I'm running my house with electricity. When a pack of energy was approved in 2003, house warmers increased by 100% in my own home. I can show you why. paritaprevir The white of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir with electrical bills. In addition, corporate electricity has increased. It is noted in the review of the bakers' union that the baker's electricity increased by the induction of an energy package by 50%. There's nothing to hide behind this, the public is being deceived. These are the facts that we need to face, and this is where the interests of interest have simply failed in my opinion. V.E.G. Minister must recognize that there is no expert solution in a pack of three. The whole market has been covered by one policy, with electricity prices being the same across Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u55	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has to decide which energy package he's talking about. Power prices will not go up if we approve a pack of three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u56	It was raised by a energy package one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u57	- Now's the time. A senator started talking about a pack of energy. [[Up front.]] True, it has been removed, and it did not rise, but let it lie in the middle. Hv. A senator has to decide whether he is talking about a pack of energy one or three. In case of a moment. Senator--I think it's all right now that he calls out in the hall, but it's better to come here and decide what he's talking about. [[Up front.]] He speaks against an energy package alone, claiming that the electricity has gone up, but those who have taken it have not come to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u58	I guess they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u59	- It gets on the edge. A senator's review is quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u60	Foreign Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u61	If the energy supply system has failed, it's just that simple. Hv. A senator is concerned about a cable that is within our control. No one else has claimed it. We took ourselves off the PCI list that the Central Party put us on. The middle party did it. It's the middle party that made a deal with Cameron to go check out the sea cables. Not this government. V.E.G. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is going to Britain, I can promise you why. Because it will not make any decisions with Britain's current prime minister to start a sea cable. No one who has studied has said otherwise than that we have the power to do so and to make it our own. We are doing what was not done before, making sure that the Allied Congress of Iceland has to accept it in particular before any preparations are made for an ocean cable. That's up to us. In case of a moment. A senator's talking about a pack of energy, it's a little late in the ass. It's a big deal if we're going to leave the whole fourth or whatever. A senator wants to do it. I hope we have a chance to discuss these matters. Hv. A senator is not criticizing the present government. Hv. A senator is criticizing the leadership of the Central Party. It is possible for anyone who wants to learn about it. It is clean and set, documented, and there is no doubt about it. Hv. A senator needs to scold someone other than the one listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u62	Wait a minute. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to respect speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for outbacks. It's just that the facts speak their own language, the highest. Ministers, and the spores shake these things. It is only necessary to discuss a package of energy in this context because it had consequences for the nation, for its homes and businesses, to increase electricity prices. This is exactly the same thing that will happen when a package of three will be approved. The purpose is to match the electrical prices in Europe. It's no secret, let's just tell the truth the way it is. Today, we have the lowest electrical price available in Europe, which will increase. V.E.G. There's nothing to worry about because there's no cable. All it takes is a government exchange and the Controversy and a government restoration, and a cable is here. It's just simple. [[For example: Or Sigmund David.]] It's just outbacks at the highest. Minister. There may be no need to worry about a cable to Britain if Britain is leaving the European Union, that's just the way it is. But this is a co - European principle that we are undergoing and the steps are frightening to these substances. It is perfectly normal to discuss in this context. Because I don't think the interest care we have here is not enough. It's not enough. There's no such thing as a special amenik. I'm just asking the highest. Minister: What is the minister afraid of if this case goes to the joint EEA committee and we say no to this energy package? We've never said no in the 25-year history of this deal. This is part of the contract, being able to resolve the issues by putting them before the committee. That's exactly what we're supposed to do. This is something for a home bridge, trying to appease the independents, the grass roots of the Independence Party, by creating a rule not to be laid - which does not mean to hold several created things at the same time. We'll see. It may not be tomorrow, but it will be within a few years, tops. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u64	A respectable president. I was going to try to avoid discussing a pack of three energy and the EEA, since they're not exactly for discussion. This is interesting, however, when the members of the Central Party come up and discuss these matters, where the chairman of the party was the only minister who actually stood for discussions with the British about the possibility of such things. But to the foreign minister's report. I want to start by thanking you very much for this report. It is clear, clear, and rich. It's also very good when you're halfway through your report to realize that there's a good extract, especially to commend. I believe that he is the most important thing in strengthening public knowledge of the important work being done in the State Department of State, I believe that this important report we have here is, in particular, a witness to Iceland's independence, that there is a free and sovereign state that is involved in the worldwide work. That is exactly because we are free and sovereign kingdoms that we can do so. We are a nation among nations. We have a lot to offer, and we just do it really well. I'd like to thank you very much. Secretary of state and his staff both at home and at home for their work. The Foreign Ministry and State Department is our second - least Ministry, so it is not a great deal of money in the big movie, which does a good job for limited funds. I'm not promising any more money with these words, I just want the Ministry to continue doing this good work. Much of this money, about half of it, goes to development partnerships and to international institutions, and it is also well, and we even aim to do even better. I'm sorry, I haven't had much time to review the report, it's as if I'm saying in effect, and today there's been a lot of good things going on. However, I especially wanted to mention the northern languages and their importance. We are taking a very exciting step by accepting the lead in the Council of the North Pole, and I think it's very important that we make good use of it. I am happy with the initiatives and statements that have come from the Ministry on how it will be used in the prehuman existence of this year. In particular, I find it important to contribute to the scientific and research community in the Arctic, environmental and resource sectors, and especially when it comes to the sea. I have high expectations that in the future we may be even bigger and more active in hosting research and scientific cooperation and innovation in the Arctic and environmental sectors. I think it's just, you know, a respectable President, I'll allow myself to put it this way, talking like this, bullshit opportunities for Iceland and most important, in view of the fact that our future economic growth is going to be driven by the scientific discoveries, research community and innovation. I think it's a big, big opportunity, and it seems to me to make good use of them, and I'd like to encourage everyone in this case to take full advantage of them. If so, I would also like to mention what appeared in an excellent way from time to time. paritaprevir For the sake of the International Work of the Parliament, Þórarinsson's son said that we may at times be able to give more discussion. I'm now participating in at least two of these. I'm in the SE Congress Department, and then I'm in the Westnoric Council. I'm sure there's other areas where we could be prominent. Of course, when it comes to all of this, priorities are needed. I think that there is reason sometimes to look at this list, the international teamwork involved in the council, and to wonder if there is any reason to change. Whether it is necessary to shift people from one international organization to another for some time, we are following some of our emphasis or such. Of course, many of our representatives make it available to the international organization. It is not as if it is always our choice of how many representatives we have in this cooperation. Often, though, it is possible for a state to send more representatives, even though the vote is not the same. I think it's just a healthy, meaningful discussion that we should make up regularly. If so, I would like to remind you that it is so important that we use our voices when we are abroad. I know it's the highest. Of course, it is, and we senators often have much space and have the opportunity to promote the interests and interests of the Icelanders. That's why I felt that it was important to me when I was at the highest level. The minister of state offered representatives of international cooperation to him in the Ministry and undertook emphasis, and I think it might even be more possible to promote further cooperation between the State Ministry and its experts with members of the Parliament who are doing international work. It is so important that we use our voices. I like the acidification of the sea to form. Not all countries are discussing the importance of our research and further study. For continental countries that do not even have land to sea, this is not a big deal, but it is a big deal for all countries on this globe. We need to push and review our priorities, and we may also have some way of saying that we are posting ourselves in some way. In this relationship, I'd especially like to introduce gender equality. Iceland's foreign policy has particularly considered this, one of the vertebrates of Iceland's foreign policy, and I think it's well. It's important to keep it up, and I think we can all do more in using our voice. I keep in view of the lack of time that I have this, but I'm looking forward to a discussion about the EEA when the first time will be presented a special report on them, I think we'll discuss it May 14. Then we can talk about the important cooperation the EEA is has and, of course, we'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss the energy package and discuss all the facts in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u65	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a foreign secretary's report on foreign and international matters. I want to say at the beginning of my speech that I like this arrangement to speak here about foreign and international affairs, i.e. taking the EES section and discussing it specifically. I'm one of those people who've been talking about it for more and more time to talk about foreign affairs. There's a really big case here, the nature of the case that falls under here. Therefore, I think this arrangement will work out, divide this into two parts, and look forward to observing the EEA discussion, which will be about to happen here. two weeks. At least I think it's a good thing. Foreign Minister's report is extensive. A wide variety of factors are introduced, the nature of a matter. There are a few things I would like to take out and address in my speech. I want to start with things that I'm really happy with and celebrate. One of them is the emphasis here on equality. I think it's exemplary for Iceland to stress equality and that it's important that it's done both in sex equality and in other forms of equality, in other groups. I was very pleased with it in the talk of the highest. A minister earlier today, as he explained how the Ministry's work and those working on Iceland's behalf are being reassigned to what we speak. I think it's very important, because it's boring when people tell others how to act, that you don't have the conviction that the person who tells others to do so will do so himself. So I think we should continue our course as we have to give even more in this country in all areas of equality. I think it's a good and important emphasis. I'm going to get into the development team too. This has been a significant reference to the division of capital into the seminar, either of what goes on in the country or of the topic of refugees and refugees, and of what goes out to what some would like to call actual development cooperation. I want to maintain my vision that we should take what is done here in a country by other financial teams, so to speak. I'm not going to have any more words than I'd like to keep that eye on you. This needs to be considered in both financial and financial programmes. I would like to commend the section on information sharing and developing cooperation. It tells of the production of information that was shown in VOLV, where we were allowed to observe a young girl going to Uganda and study, and at the same time, the UN's global goal. I thought it was perfectly exemplary and would like to see more of such things, since I think that is a wonderful way to show why developing cooperation is so important, and to instruct young people, and to us all, under the circumstances of a large part of the world. I think it's particularly important now that we're seeing the impact of global climate change and especially the disaster news coming from Mozambique, which we're no longer in two-way development partnerships but, nevertheless, are Iceland's focusland when it comes to development cooperation. So I think it's really important to discuss these matters. I know that the information supply has been growing, both by means of these television programs but also by linking the World Light Newsletter, which tells us about development cooperation. I think it's very good. I can't help passing a little bit of disarmament. There is a section in the report on the disarmament of the crossroads that deal with nuclear destruction, both of which are important but also of the treats on the intermediate nuclear missiles that have been reported. What a terrible news for the world! I know it's me and the highest. When it comes to nuclear disarmament in the whole world, a minister does not fully agree. I think it is important that this is included in the report, even though I have wanted to say much more strongly and write that in the United Nations, nuclear weapons have become a ban on the United Nations. An ever greater number of countries sign that agreement and have more and more validated it. Finally, I would like to say that we sometimes talk about being a small and small nation, but at the same time we have faith in ourselves and know that we can make international difference. I'd just like to mention a council proposal adopted in 2014, which was very modest and discussed that the General Minister of Foreign Affairs is taking the lead in internationally showing that the people of the West Zoara's own decision-making rights would be respected in line with the conclusions of the National Security Council and the General Assembly of the United Nations. This is an incredibly modest conclusion, but it has made a difference. The conclusion was of great importance to a nation living in tragic conditions in a refugee camp, so we have an impact. Finally, I want those last seconds to enter the environment. Environmental and climate issues will be discussed in several chapters of the report. That, of course, is good. I believe, however, that further progress is needed and that the environment needs to be considered on the issues of war. I directed a question to the highest level. Environment Minister to see if there is a carbon footprint that comes from an air space monitor here in Iceland. There's no such thing as that number. There is simply no such thing as global pollution or approaching it is very difficult. I don't make those requirements here to the highest degree. While I know that he is a valiant man, a minister will raise it up in an instant, but I believe it is important that we take these matters with us and consider the entire environment. This is where military issues are not excluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and perfunctory speech. We agree on many things and certainly most, but normally we do not agree on all matters. But I found that much was especially good for me at what was happening. Senator. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has met the question on the head when she spoke of equality, which is en route in all our work. Of course we're all Iceland's ambassadors, but the foreign services speak a nature of the case. Hv. One senator put it well when she said that there was a hollow sound if there was no conviction in the officials who speak for a certain cause. It's a lot of fun to say that when you talk to politicians elsewhere, you realize that we've come a lot farther, I want to say, than many other peoples. I was wondering how you approach this when you talk to your sex brothers who have a different attitude. I use a sentence that I think we can all use. In recent decades, we have seen much change, and, of course, the struggle has been going on much longer. I don't know anybody who wants to go back. I've never heard a politician say, "Hey, this is too far. We need to go back. However, we know that we can do much better, and there are equality issues for both sexes. One assignment I look at in equality is the position of young boys. And knowing people, many of the nations we compare with, perhaps most of them, have the same problem. So it's an eternity thing. But we wanted to, and I hope we're successful and we're supposed to do it in general, start trying to clean up our house, not that I'm saying there's some particular problem, but we're not. A senator said: "When we're speaking for a cause, it has to be convincing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u67	Mr. President. I think it's true that most people don't want to go back. However, I am not quite optimistic about the general view, for we see evidence that we need to guard against the lines we have reached in equality. I'd like to mention, for instance, to the woman's self-determination of her own body when it comes to a pregnancy break, e.g. There has been a setback in the discussion in many countries and even in the field of legislatures. This is also true of the rights of various minority groups, such as queer people in various countries where love is really a crime. So while most of us make progress, there are signs that we need to stand firm for what has been accomplished, moving forward, and not turning around the hard ways. Surely, the discussion is not always in favor of women or peripheral groups. I'd like to say that the emphasis on boys and men is also extremely important. I believe that, as with the women's struggle, it was a huge deal to engage men and boys in that discussion and that they speak about their vision of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u68	A respectable president. I haven't spoken clearly enough. I was more referring to Iceland. You're absolutely right. A senator that we see in many parts of the world that we are going back, not just on equality, but on human rights in general. The overall development is in the right direction, but there are exceptional exceptions. I think there is the greatest danger if we take something for granted. I referred to the fact that little Iceland can make a difference, and then I think the biggest thing is that we can walk ahead with a good example, but sometimes we also have a story to tell. We see that it is a great deal of respect because of gender equality, of course because of more human rights than especially equality. It's good to be able to tell our story. I think it's likely to attract attention. It's just that we're called very often. I am called very often to discuss equality in all parts of the world. I'll admit I'm a bit thinking aloud here. I do it because everyone's job is to put it in someone's uniform that it gets separated. We are a people of history, and it is often good to be able to put things in history, even though they are very short stories, perhaps expressed in some phrases. I think our young boys have gone way beyond even my generation when it comes to equality. That's something they've grown up with and almost everyone has experienced. But in the same way, they are also threatened. All numbers show it to us. We are not to wait for this to happen, and we should approach it based on gender equality. I think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u69	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for correcting that he was referring to issues involving Iceland and not to talk on a global scale. I agree that most people in Iceland don't want to go back. But there's still a lot of work to do. I agree with what has been said, that we do a great deal of good in various measurable scales, but there are other things that may be harder to attach to and harder to establish laws that also matter when it comes to equality. It's like the highest. I have had discussions with foreign senators who have wanted to discuss equality. A few years ago, because of the emphasis on women's involvement in the work market, the importance of it was that as soon as women are involved in the workforce increased, the man must be more involved in the home. Otherwise it doesn't work out, or it just puts extra stress on women. I think it's important and I want to make the most of it. A minister of it, because he is in such a good position to have conversations, to remember also the issues that may not be so easy to speak, but are extremely important to make real progress in establishing serious gender equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u70	Should the Minister be more diligent at home?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u71	Home and anywhere else in a foreign field. I'm sharpening the Minister for good works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u72	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister for the report and what. The members of the council for an excellent and informative discussion. I'm not going to extend it very much, but I'd like less than a few things that may be the most suggestion. But first little about the importance of international cooperation and foreign service. I will allow myself to refer to the journeys I have traveled to many corners of the world and to the relationships I have had with all kinds of people, both publicly and unofficially, and have ever said, which I know, in fact, have many people been chewing, that the memory that a nation is so much more so that it should share in foreign service and international cooperation, it certainly is true. The 280 or 290 souls involved here are perhaps one or two branches in a large European country, a foreign service there. Of course, they have done a good job, and that is clearly indicated in the report. I just want to come to a certain part of a foreign service, which is the business here at home, the administrative element so called. The entire budget of the service is about 15 billion per year. That is how much more than 900 billion dollars the Kingdom has to say. Of course, within this is the development team itself, almost half or half. They're inside defenses and foreign services, these traditional, and then the management agencies I mentioned, commercial development, and so forth. The proportion of the figures that this is not a very large amount is seen, and there is not a very large number of people involved in this work. By listening to the members of the Ministry and by checking only numbers and other factors, I believe there are about 500 million missing into this administrative committee so that we can remain in the Agency's operations at home. I challenge the Council to make sure that there is money in this, whether it is now in a single step up to what is obviously missing, or in more steps. Maybe that's not all that matters. But I think we have to admit that we have to do a little better when it comes to earning money. In the middle of the future, when I look at this report, I agree, of course, with the people who have come up here talking about additional donations for development cooperation. There have been good increases in this proportion of GDP, but we obviously plan to 0.7%, OECD levels, and I encourage it to be fully loaded. I'm mainly going to discuss northern lands because I'm related to the matter, both as chairman of the Northern Parliamentary Committee and as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The report correctly identifies these Arctic languages as priorities and puts much emphasis on increasing the scope, increasing the level of activity, being fertile and novelty, so I'll make it personal. I'd like to ask them how and when to review Iceland's Arctic policy? It is from 2011, and it is evidently time for her to be reviewed and reexamined. That was the first one. Another is scientific cooperation, as it were. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in. It is now even. in the form of a team called IASC, or the International Polar Science Team, if we put it that way. This will include data collection, cooperation in studies, etc. There is, however, one factor I think was, I'm not being neglected, but I need to be treated, but there is a sharing of information between countries and scientists in a very special form. This means that articles written in different languages are translated into languages that are understood by the person. We now know that, for example. Russian scientists do not necessarily write articles in English. In other words, translation into these articles and setting up a central living room, some kind of distribution system, on this subject. I think it would mean a lot to the scientific community if they made a wide opening for Iceland's initiative. In this connection, it can be mentioned that there was, yes, signed or completed, a contract for increased scientific cooperation in the north in Fairbank 2017. This idea, which I want to tell you, is why. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir also helps, would be fine in line with this growing scientific team, i.e. to communicate data readily in languages understood by other scientists than we, English - speaking people. Then I'd like to make it a haven of peace in the north. I also want Iceland to take the initiative, and then, in the long run, I'm talking about it. The troubled seas may be small, they may be large, but the aim is to protect biodiversity and protect these areas from marine resource development or otherwise. There's some way Iceland could be the voice of reason and do some good things. Finally, I would like to mention something that I have only applied to myself at the scene of this Senate Committee. It is an introduction in the northern, nature, culture, human life and cooperation between the eight countries there, the European Parliament, the bodies that send an audience, etc. and especially on the products of the work that goes past the Arctic Council. Then I'm thinking of all types of media, both standard media and new, network programs or anything, working on presenting the northern countries themselves, cooperation, results, and most not least, the translation of this region. There's been a lot of fine sentences making that what happens in the north stays in the north. It's such a poor English translation. I've also heard that when it comes to climate, the foolishness is the shoreline of the world. I am so convinced myself that the knowledge most people are referring to, to other politicians, the media, the knowledge of these areas, the knowledge of this class, is one of the best weapons in the battle for good human life there, and not least in combating climate warming. All of a sudden, a good presentation of what we're doing and dealing with northern affairs, including what the Council is doing, is a very important matter to be taken care of. Here was a climate issue in Iceland's foreign affairs. I was just thinking briefly and thought about answering myself and others. Where does the climate appear in Iceland's foreign policy? Then I'm going to start my science team. What is more important than good science when it comes to climate? Iceland has certainly done much, says the report, which is of great importance. I would point to the North Pole's own aim for a faster recession in greenhouse gas emissions, but the Paris Convention is expected. This is a formal agreement with the Arctic Council, and Iceland has a party to it. I'd like to mention Icelandic innovations, Iceland's ways, for energy gains in cold areas of the north, as is the focus of Iceland in the prehumanity now in the Arctic Council. I'd like to mention development cooperation, energy support, to form in Africa, participation in various international meeting songs that depend on climate, the Paris convention, or anything else. I am involved in the emissions trade, which, of course, are designed to put together emissions, cooperation in the Northern Council and cooperation of the Western Council. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it might be better to leave, but these are examples of what is being done, and it is not little that these foreign languages are coloring. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for extensive public talk and good talk. I'm gonna run to the main thing that came out here. With the administration, I think it's a good idea. A foreign relations committee reviews this aspect of the matter and will do so in connection with financial programmes. We put these things out, as mentioned, in a graphic way and with all the numbers inside, to a greater extent than the previous one has. The purpose is that foreign funds are as transparent as possible and then all you have to do is discuss the things they are. Hv. A senator asks for a review of the Arctic policy. I came up with an idea that was introduced to him. Foreign Affairs Committee, for the next steps on this matter. I have imagined that we have a committee comparable to that of some members of the council. Of course, smaller groups have the view that it is difficult to communicate, but it may not be a matter of the fact that members of Congress themselves will write long numbnesss, humans have access to experts, and so on. There has been an interpolitical harmony in the northern regions, and it is very important that this be done. As with national security, I think it is best that members of Parliament come directly to that matter. This idea, providing information in languages, raises this question as the first response: Wait, why haven't you done this? It sounds great, and we'll look at it. If it is not involved, we need to consider it. In all our affairs, we focus on the affairs of the sea because there may be a little orphan in all international cooperation. It's all over the country, it's in the North Americas, it's NB8. We've got issues all over the ocean, including for reasons that you had. A senator mentioned. I'll then continue down the list in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u74	Mr. President. I'm not going to say a lot, but thank you for these answers, and there are more to follow. With regard to the information sharing in the scientific community, I don't know how to explain this, but maybe it's just this superintendent in English. People only assume that scientists, even cohesive, are good students of English that it is not easy to use. It is, of course, the language used in conferences. I have sat many of them, and I know how many people have a terrible problem, many foreigners, both expressing themselves and understanding what is going on there. This service, I think, would be important. Well, we have giant countries that do research, whether it's China or Russia, where I think it would matter and in fact others. About the sea, just a few words. It's an orphan, so is it. Well, only Iceland has a sea area that's seven to eight times our area. There are marine areas along the other eight states, which are the parenting centres of animals that are sensitive to pollution. I am absolutely convinced that if a contract was attacked, as it has been done regarding saving and searching, regarding scientific cooperation and present fishing, it would be possible to achieve the success of more nations - we have a British farm - start thinking on these lines and doing something. Britain has shown special initiative by creating a policy in their territory, let's say, maybe not the right word, but I'm talking about the federal government, where they intend to take the lead in peace matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u75	Like what? A member of the council referred to them is also my opinion that if it is the duty of any nation to take up the cause of the sea and always have them on the lead, it is our Icelanders for obvious reasons. Hv. A senator came into the climate as well. There, too, we have a story about better - off green solutions, and it wasn't because of climate. I don't think we're gonna find it in the literature when we see why we've been working on green solutions that we've been thinking about climate issues. I think the main reason was that we only had a small currency and had a lot of energy that we could benefit from. Of course, there are other roads, but this is knowledge that we can impart and share and that we have done, but especially in the north, since it may be so important in few places. But like a dog. A senator often points out that we should not focus on one solution; there are more ways to do so. The new wind and other activities, of course, that we should do as well. I think it doesn't need the will or the emphasis in our foreign policy. One is to have the will, one is to write down the emphasis on paper, and then the question is, How are we going to try to leave ourselves in our work, whether we are in the lead in any international community or in regional cooperation or only participants? I don't have to add that in myself. A senator refers to him. The goal is always to reach international agreements. We were now making deals with the seas, which is important, but there is much to be done if we are going to achieve the results we agree on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u76	A respectable president. I'm not going to be too long about this report as Minister, but I wanted to introduce one point. First, I'd like to apologize for not taking extra initiative to shoot at the top. Minister, but I'll leave the plow on the table and he'll be back. January 8th. received a report from the Council of Europe and was chairman of Sir Robert Gale, a representative of the United Kingdom traditionalists. The report is: The Projects of the Asherly's Monitoring Program and Outcomes of thehonoring of obliterations by Iceland and Italy. Iceland and Italy are taken together. A similar report is prepared annually. I haven't read the report of the previous year, but as a representative of the Council of Europe, I went through this report when it was published right now. There are points I would like to point out and draw attention to and hear the minister's view of matters. In Comb 4. is about communication between Iceland and the European Union. In the latter part, we will discuss how Iceland became a member of the 1994 EEA, then Schengen, and so forth. A casual translation states: Despite this close cooperation, the Member State's application - to take part in the European Union - is a very controversial case between political parties in Iceland. Iceland and the European Union formally opened adaptation talks in 2010. A letter was sent to the European Union by the then foreign minister, who withdrew Iceland's Member States without the approval of Generalis. Then, with the permission of the president, the final sentence of the paragraph comes to read in English: ▪ However the European Union countriesd the Iceland did not really form the application.◯ As follows: Despite this letter of the Foreign Minister, the European Union claims that Iceland did not withdraw its application. This document does not force our fine foreign policy as minister and government. It is of interest, however, that this European position is framed in this manner in this Council of Europe, where the result, the conclusion of the paragraph, is, on permission of the president, again: ▪ However The European Union countriesd the Iceland did not really form the application.◯ -To put it this way: Iceland hasn't formally restored its membership application. I'm asking for the highest response. Minister for this. I know he's no particular amateur to join the European Union, but this attitude is still available in a report on Iceland, and I'd like to know if this is the European Union's position as it looks at the State Department of State or if it's someone else? I'll let myself leave this document here, because I know that the highest. Minister, the Liverpool fan, would love to read the text.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for this. He's kind of going to have to talk it over at the Central Party Conference. It was a w-w-w-w. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Gunnar Sveinsson Svúnsson, who croaked to Brussels. I'll totally agree that I haven't felt that anyone thinks we're having an opportunity to attend. I think that puts it this way that my attitude toward the European Union is very well - known in Brussels. It is not that one would think that the person standing here will ever take advantage of Iceland's involvement in the European Union. I think it would be right to discuss this as well. Foreign Affairs and review of letters sent and letters as well as letters. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson took them to Brussels and compared with the national news release, such as the translation. I think that would be the perfect thing for what. The Foreign Affairs Committee to review this. They know my position, both within the country and outside, and I don't want to make my shoes known to be world famous - I'm totally free of it, but still known among my colleagues in the European Union. No one has dared to mention to me whether I would be willing to use myself for Iceland's application of membership in the European Union. Indeed, I have not been aware that they view us as having a parting application. But it's something that's wrong. A senator should pick up and ask his representative to do so. State Department to present to the Committee. In itself, I don't know anything else about this case, okay? A senator is introducing this now and leaving this fine piece behind, which I don't have the opportunity to read in these two minutes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Then I'd like to ask my second question to ask if the Minister will be able to detect any ill effects on it, since at the first hour the message didn't go all the way, to cancel any doubt there, so that reports are not being made within the European Parliament's system, where men see to it that Iceland has active access to Member States. It would be interesting to hear the minister's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u79	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is now introducing this matter to me along with other members of the council here. I don't know anything about this. I know, however, that I am prepared to work very hard to make sure that Iceland is not working in the European Union. I didn't know that there was any danger, but why. In effect, a senator is saying that, if I understand correctly, he is concerned that the members of the council at the time did not make this clear. I can't understand it any other way. But I think it's right for them to answer for it. This is about the leadership of the Central Party. They have, in effect, to explain it when they walked forward, that doubt played on what they were doing. We at the Ministry of State will provide all the data as well. A senator and other members of Parliament ask for it. As I mentioned, I have not been aware of this interpretation in the European Union, so I make it clear. But, hey. A senator is, in fact, informing or arguing - I don't have a chance to investigate the matter over the two minutes, four of whom I'm fighting. But it's a criticism of government w. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. This can't be understood any other way. It's critical of her. I'm not going to pronounce any sentence on it here, no one. I feel that former prime minister and former secretary of state are allowed to clarify their issues, why this might arise. I was certainly not in the scene when this deed was done. Hv. A senator, Manchester United fan, asks me to take this with him. I don't think it's all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u80	Mr. President. Here in my second speech, I would like to begin the chapter on Human Rights and the United Nations Institute for Human Rights and Human Rights, especially on page 24◯27. I welcome the initiative that Iceland has shown at the court of Human Rights, especially on the grounds of human rights violations in Saudi Arabia. Iceland conducted a joint declaration of 36 countries. This is the first time Saudi Arabia is put under such pressure in the council, and that's very remarkable. I say again and again, I think we've done very well in this case, and we've done very well, and we're happy about it, and I'd like to thank the foreign minister for the mismanagement of this case. It also came to the fore, and it was further condemned to the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who caused much anxiety throughout the world. Very important to condemn it in this regard. Here we have an example of how a state, through a concerted effort, will respond to serious violations of human rights. Iceland's performance shows that size in countries is not relevant to effects in the Council of Human Rights, such as the Supreme Court. Minister has mentioned here. I'll agree with that and celebrate the boldness that Iceland has shown to this committee. In fact, it was a paper in the history of the Council of Human Rights when one of these vast, powerful states was criticized for gross violations of human rights at home. Of course, you hope that this will lead to the failure of any states on the Human Rights Council to unite in criticizing other kingdoms, other powerful kingdoms. Similarly, I must make it my point that I believe to the highest. In the Philippines, a minister did not study the situation well enough when he made the position of human rights in that land a special subject of his talk to the Council of Human Rights last year and severely criticized the government. Iceland thus took a special lead in this regard. A minister called for a further response from the council if the Philippines authorities did not abandon them. In the Philippines, the government resented the criticism of the Icelandic government of human rights and invited the minister of the Philippines, the foreign minister of Iceland, the Guðlaugur - informed Thor Þór Þórðarson, to visit them directly. But what is the issue, Mr. President, and of what course did the foreign minister of the Iceland government in the Philippines encourage a return? It is a matter of war against drugs in that country, and governments have been accused of killing civilians without trial or law. However, not everything in these material and a lot of false stories has been distributed that are financed by drug rings in the Philippines and put forth to blacken the government. A number of police officers have been killed in these activities in the Philippines, but they have produced significant results in that country and started this operation three years ago. In the Philippines, crime was high, and it could be said that the land was plagued by drug addicts. The results of government action are high, as previously indicated, and in major cities there has been a decline in crime rates between 40 and 4700%. It is now time that the city in general can walk safely out at night in the Philippines, which was once dangerous - and really impossible. The president of the Philippines is very supportive, and the general public in that country is totally behind the president of this war. I believe that in this case, Mr. President, we should have stepped gently to the earth in the Human Rights Council. Of course, as I say, I rejoice in the boldness that we have shown in this counsel, and I know the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has made such progress with good intentions. But there I think, as I say again and again, we should have stepd to the ground with care because the matter is not quite as simple as it appears to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and only natural to give an appropriate answer. A senator referred to him. I agree with it. A senator mentioned about Saudi Arabia. But as for the Philippines, I don't think I'm informed of any secrets when I relate this meeting I had with the Philippines foreign minister, which I thought was probably mys. We have never condemned the taking of drug - crime rings. But when it comes to reasoning that people are executed without trial or law, we have always condemned them. My colleague in the Philippines just said, "Hey, you just have to come and take it out. I rightly pointed out that I think, and I don't regret, that I might now be in a position to do so. But I totally agreed and understood that he wanted to fight this crime. I urged that international agencies be allowed to take this out. I don't think we can take them all out so they're somehow wrong. At least we trust them all the same. That was our view. Now I've been scolded often in Icelandic, but he scolded me in English at a press conference, this fine fellow of mine, which was most excellent. It was a nice meeting. But it's not that, more dignified President, when a man criticizes violations of human rights - which I've done, not just in this respect, but on, for example. Basically, all two - sided meetings in countries where we believe human rights are not okay - that the colleague does not bring in any justification. I've never met a man - and I won't mention all the countries - that have said, "Yes, that's right, we're just breaking human rights without mercy. Humans are always in harmony with their own justification.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, of course, and of course rejoice that a minister was meeting with the Philippines foreign minister, hoping that he could better explain our issues. But I've only studied this subject and talked to the Filipino community in Iceland. There are some information that you have received in this relationship that I think matters. First, the president in the Philippines is enjoying the unambiguous support of his own people, the Filipinos. After this campaign began, there has been a great change in this country. But of course we condemned - and I agree with it with the highest degree. Ministers - execution without trial or law. There are two stories of that subject, and that fact is that it has been distributed a lot of false stories about the situation, especially those so - called executions without a court order. Sadly, with regard to false news, man has made progress in this matter. We can only see it from far away. We can only see in Eastern Europe how the Russians have used this medium. So, in view of the results that have been achieved in this country and the information received from citizens of this country, I should have thought that we should have taken a careful approach to the earth to make a statement like this. [[The president calls.]] I think we should have done it in another way, if that were the case, but not at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u83	A respectable president. I have considered our duty and policy to be to call attention to human rights violations and to try to be consistent with us in this regard. Hv. A senator refers to the Filipino community in Iceland, which is a great people and a great strength for the people in Iceland to have these good people here. Of course, they will listen to what these good people say, but we cannot trust anything other than the international community in which we all trust. We don't have any other tools to do that. I can't send 20 or 30 members of the State Department to settle matters in those countries. I'd still like to draw attention to it -- since I've always done this at meetings and we're now, for example. setting the issue of human rights in focus when it comes to evolution - already there is. A senator will do this in some way, and he will always get justice. And that is not to say that there is nothing in them. I remember, for example. After the minister of foreign affairs pointed out that they would have to increase the pay of policemen who were so low that it is no doubt difficult for them to bring their lives forward and a great risk of their survival, e.g. For bribes and stuff like that. I commended my colleagues for what that meant. But I didn't like that he wasn't ready to let the institutions or organizations that we trusted to look into. Everyone has sympathy for those people who fight crime. Often, though, good intentions have been carried out, but on the way, things have happened. [[The president calls.]] There are many examples in this story. A senator knows very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u84	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, and perhaps in this final answer, he will only back away from false stories that I have previously discussed from this chair. I miss a little bit that I haven't at least found in this report that there's been anything special mention in Iceland's interest custody when it comes to false stories. Because it is necessary to observe false stories, to be recorded, to have written reports of such origins, and to have some kind of plan for them. We know this in our community when foreign demands made good use of community media to transmit various messages in the conduct of the policy-making agreements and the leading of elections, which we also know. There was an indirect or direct involvement in elections through advertising in the media, etc. So there are various methods used in these areas, and society media are particularly useful. I would have thought there was some kind of response team in cooperation with the State Marshal inside the State Department, who had some kind of problems and watched false news. North countries have been beaten by false stories. Feels about the involvement of elections. The Russians have been involved in this. So I miss a little bit of the report that this important matter is being mentioned only. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u85	President. I'm going to admit that I thought that I had been misheard when I listened to a talk. A senator and him, in a very relaxed way, knew that I was the source of the concern of human rights violations in the Philippines as false news. But then it turned out to be our highest response. Minister of state that it is a firm opinion. Senator. That's what I think. A senator with information to make Amnesty International, who speaks of thousands of illegal executions or killings by police in the Philippines, all based on misunderstandings and false stories? I don't really know what to say about that. I'm too polite to say what I'd like to say here in a pita. Human Rights Watch published in his annual report 2018 statistics about 4.948 suspected drug users and dealers who have died between July 1, 2016, and September 30, 2018 in the war against drugs. Where does Human Rights Watch get that number from? Yes, from the Philippines authorities, by permission of President Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency. The International Crime Court announces that he intends to investigate this, initiate premeditation. Could it be that more than 5,000 people are killed in war against drugs, that something is wrong? In February 2018, a month later, the president of the Philippines announced that he will reduce the country from the International Crime Court. And it says why. A senator, in his privileged position in Iceland, described them as a disaster of false news. [[The president calls.]] I'm offended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to go over it with him a little bit. I'm not rationalizing that people are killed without court and law. I simply said that there should be a careful step to the earth in that matter and a careful study of matters. Is that not exactly what needs to be done? Hv. A senator himself said that the case would be investigated by the International Crime Court. Then there is the conclusion whether this is valid, and if so, then there is a basis for condemning the case before the Council of Human Rights. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is making a big deal of my words in this regard. False news is part of the case. According to the information I've been given by talking to the Filipino community in this country, it's true that all of this is based on killing people in so-called shoot-outs because they shoot at police and they shoot back. That's what the President has authorized. In case of a moment. A senator considers that this is not the case. Rather, the police should try to arrest the drug addicts. But this is one of the facts of the case. Senator. I think we must simply get firm conclusions on a case like that from the International Crime Court before we begin to take the stand of condemning it as we did for the Council of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u87	President. I'm not in any pain when it comes to things as serious as this. Hv. A senator was moved to give a second talk during the discussion, to go out of his way to bait him to the highest level. Secretary of State for talking about violations of human rights for the United Nations Council of Human Rights, alleged violations of the Philippines. It's like you're in a play, Mr. President. The whole world is concerned about human rights violations in the Philippines. Well, I guess that's not news for what. A senator. He now wants to start studying things. Yes, the International Crime Court was just about to investigate. How was that study handled? I went over it last year. I'm not going to be able to tell you what police procedures are supposed to be in other countries. I'm not going to stand on my privileged position, so I'm going to say it again, on peaceful Iceland, and post action that all organizations and organizations who are concerned about the human rights of the world are as if they're nothing. What does our foreign minister have to do out there in the world to talk about this? The President is popular with the Filipinos. Why are you getting involved in this? I don't think it's acceptable. I'd rather have thought it was a pat on the shoulder at the highest. Secretary of state. I'm here to celebrate specifically that he brought this up. I hope that, no matter what our beliefs or beliefs, we will do everything within our power to investigate all suspected human rights violations in the Philippines and take up all the action we can in case of suspicion of rights. [[Take your position: [Hear, hear.]]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't understand why. A senator is worried that I'll come in the second time and discuss this. That's my right, isn't it? Senator? I praised you very much. Foreign Minister for his conduct in the council on Saudi Arabia. However, I do not agree with him in the Filipino matter and encourage him to step to the earth with caution on that subject, since the matter is very complex and there is no information. They should be examined, and as a result, we can condemn this matter. It's just that kind of growing. [[Up front.]] Be glad to hear it. A senator, for example, did not that this country's crime rate has dropped by up to 70%, that people on free heads can now escape? Has a what? A senator visited this land and examined the circumstances there himself? Isn't there any reason why the public in this country supports this president, up to 70-80% of the nation, supporting the president? Isn't there any reason why not? Why don't we dump a gang of drug crime and make it impossible for people to run away from free heads in the country? Travelers don't have the guts to go there, etc. and the public is afraid to walk in the streets in the evening. It must be done to prevent people from being able to live as has been done in the land. But we're here to investigate whether these claims are going to work, I completely agree with that. However, I feel that at this point it is not right for the government to condemn the case in a way that was done in the Council of Human Rights. The conclusion may be that we do so, good and good, but I don't think that the time point has yet to come. The matter is complicated, and it needs to be examined and concluded before we do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-30-97.u89	A respectable president. I'd like to take this opportunity and thank you very much for your time. However, I just wanted to say about this discussion that came to a close for those who are watching, so that we are aware of the context of the parts, that we led 40 states out of the Philippines business, and none of those states are opposed to fighting against crime rings, a very long way from. But there must always be concern over the nature of the matter of execution without trial. Is it possible for us Icelanders to examine everywhere automatically what is involved in human rights violations? No, we don't, and it's never gonna be. I don't think it's desirable in itself either. But what we rely on is information from international institutions that have real confidence. Because this case is specifically referred to, it was one thing I proposed to my colleagues from the Philippines that these international institutions would have the opportunity to look into these matters. But that was not acceptable. Without going any more into it, I don't think that when we think there's anything wrong with taking the initiative and supporting it when you're being critical of human rights violations. This is certainly not true of the kingdoms exposed to such criticism, e.g. Saudi Arabia, has not taken action and brought all kinds of justification for matters as well as conditions. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's daughter rightly said that we should be critical. It's not like they didn't take action, even speaking. about false news - which is a real thing and I'm not making them down. But we must trust in the international community in this, although, of course, all of us have the right to speak their own language. Hv. A senator here referred to false news. They're serious. True, I think there's something we should discuss, and now we are especially looking at it. General, how this new environment is going and how it is developing. We are involved in cooperation, including. for NATO, in this regard, it is directly up to the Ministry of Justice and the National Security, even though it is our turn. But it is true that it is the highest. Minister of Justice, which may have the most to say on the subject. Also, we should talk, I think, how foreign people affect conversation. Because we talked about the small energy package: I have not felt that I am completely abnormal how a particular interest organization, of course, only one political party, is trying to influence the discussion here, and is not thinking of Icelandic interests. Then I'm referring to the energy package. I don't remember it, and I've been watching politics for several decades that such a situation has developed before. Then I'm - so clear - to refer to the Norwegian Middle East and I'm referring to the Nej's organization to the EU, which has been fighting for decades that Norway is in the EEA. They're not thinking of Icelandic interests, I say, when they use them in Iceland. The discussion seemed to me that it was a good and perfunctory subject. True, I'll quite agree that what stands up, and I'm merely digesting, is when the fine senator is down. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason gave a report I've never seen before from the European Council that Iceland is still applying for membership in the European Union. I think this calls for the members of this case at the time, both of whom are here at the council. paritaprevir Sigmund Davíð Gunnlaugsson. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, let me explain. I think it would be very unfair otherwise, but they would now be allowed to explain their side of this matter. Of course, in the State Department of State, we have no need to give all the information people want to know about it. But there was a time and a time of opportunity for any custody of this case. This was the custody of the then prime minister and foreign minister. And if people have walked so that there's any question as to whether we have a member of the European Union application, I haven't seen it on my side. It's important, however, that men look at it. I'll think about it. Perhaps the best way to look at this matter is by a foreign - language committee. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason son, to direct his case thither. Of course, those in the case at the time need to explain their side of the case. It would be unfair to pass judgment without delay. paritaprevir Sigmur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson would carry his hand over his head and explain his point. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children also came here with a question that I would like to answer, since I have a few minutes. I have a rule of speaking against members of Congress, because I find it strange when a minister comes to the end only after he listens to all the talks. It is absolutely impossible in five minutes for him to answer everything that is presented. I hope it's informative when I come close to explain. For the Russians, because I was asked if the situation was blurred, that's the guys who set us up as a matter of business. They decided to adopt groups that are most damaging to us. You'll also get some e.g. power stations we trust and trust will not have to sell into the Russian market. We've been trying to push this off, because there's no grammatical evidence to support this. There's been a lot of business between Iceland and Russia. They've been getting a lot bigger in recent years. We have a business venture to establish an Icelandic-Russian business council, and there are other things we do to help support our business as well as encourage them to lighten the ban on us. About China. We've already received the rules of loyalty on lamb meat. We're working on it with both salmon and trout, as well as fish flour and light. Regarding Japan, I described it earlier - and I could tell it today - that the matter has been prepared for a very long time, and that is why I went to Japan, pushing after it and more. It's very nice to see how much communication between Iceland and Japan has gotten. And the fact that we're sending a representative on June 6 to Tokyo to start this business agreement, hopefully leading to a vacation contract, is very good news for us. I am happy to be able to use this day to share it with you. Of course, we will want to learn more about this. Have we reached the conclusion we want? No, but we've already begun. We're finally on our way. I think it's been a decade, at least, that we've been trying to get to this place. Same with the U.S. economy. Actually, it's the same day, I think, June 6th. Then representatives of the U.S. government come here to discuss increased business agreements. We hope that it will lead to a longer contract, hopefully a vacation agreement, or someone else who will help us deal with the business and make it easier for us to do business with the Americans and to do business with us. That's the goal. And this shows whites that the security is successful. We haven't begun celebrating, but we're taking our first steps here, something we've been waiting for a very long time. Ever since I've been inside as a minister, it's been done tirelessly. I'm glad to hear the response. Senators who have discussed this. True, they are not surprising, since this is good news, and we have been waiting for it for a long time. At the end, a respectable president, I want to take this opportunity to thank all those who participated in the discussion. I feel that we are developing in the right direction, discussing more foreign affairs, international affairs, and discussing here in particular the European Economic Area, especially the development issues. I think the more we do of this, the better, because it's not just what it is. Congress officials who need to know what we are doing and why and bring their way; rather, it is very important that the nation be aware of that, too.
