ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u1	The President's announcement was made on Thursday, May 2, of Porta's Congress on personality changes in the committees of the Parliament, as per Article 16. Congress. In a professional committee, Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, seated Hrafn Höfns Gunnarsson of Gunns, and Jón Þór Ólafsson, will be a substitute. In the General and Education Committee, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson will be the seat of Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdóttir, who will be a deputy of the Committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Minister of Justice requesting every appointment to provide a written answer to a covering query. One hundred and seventy-five, of the chief of police in the capital area, to experts, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 1087 on committees, staff, professional groups and Department council, from Inga Sæland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u3	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u4	To answer, Education and Culture Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Economic and Economic Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u5	Mr. President. During the past month, nearly half of the population's pay was prepared in the country, and it was safe to commend the labor movement and the working force for the responsibilities and creative thinking of this approach. Lately, as I recall in another wave, the government brought a package sufficient to tie the last knot in this round because a large percentage of employees are still at odds, including many public classes, many great women's classes, are the people who negotiate the very state and community. It's a bit of a hole in the term "bill of Life" contract if it doesn't reach all citizens of the country. So I am curious about how the government intends to achieve such agreements with a number of people who have no right to strike and who live in many very low wages. Of course, I mean 66,000 people and older in the country. There are a number of cases in which individuals need to support themselves at 247,183 k. in a month and clearly that is not enough to bring forward life. There is a Community bill on the rise in social security insurance as much as the lowest wage. If the poorer and older citizens do not have comparable increases, these groups will be further reduced, and this is some of the poorest people in our community. So my questions to ministers are very simple: Will pensions take the same increases as the minimum paid? If not, what measures will the government take to improve this group? And third: When is this action to be expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u6	A respectable president. I don't think it's quite the right approach, if I may put it that way, to think that the state is in a crescent bargaining with disability or the elderly. We have decided to legalize the terms of those who have not achieved the pension rights of senior employees and how we will build reform systems for those who have suffered tragedy or come into the world with impaired skills. It estimates that from year to year, changes will be made in line with general development in the country. There is no particular reference to what happens with the lowest rate, but in recent years we have made a very large and positive change in the interest of older citizens where we can, for example, can. Seeing in the history of income, it is unmistakably clear that the population of Icelanders who have enjoyed most of the increase in financial resources in recent years is just older citizens. There are several factors, more and more, coming in with a better pension rights, but more improvements are also important. We have also been in the case of the disabilityrs with many years of conversation, and we have set aside funds to strengthen their support systems, and I hope we will find a conclusion. But the annual changes will be in accordance with the law. At least it's taken place. in our plans today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u7	Mr. President. I talked about a government and government agreements with government employees but then I mentioned whether the elderly and the poor should not receive the same compensation. I think we're at the highest. Ministers are to remember that the older citizens of this country are the ones who returned to us the society we live in today and have the right to lead a secure life for the last few years. And we can't live with the condemnation of poverty, only if something is so unfortunate that I don't talk about if they're born without being able to help with work. Besides, it's not true, at least. Ministers, that these things were never looked to because 2011 was shocked. Then these groups experienced an increase immediately following collective agreements. And I ask, "Is it really going to do it again? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u8	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that we will finish our contracts with government employees, and we need to get sound conclusions on that matter. However, all public employees benefit from the actions of the government. So we specifically take the tax measures, in which we were adding to our original ideas, they are designed to benefit the lowest paying people the most. The group that lives at about 325,000 bucks. During a month there are very large and older citizens. If we should take out any group that is more likely to benefit from the tax reduction, it is people at the lowest of the wage, that is, the poor, and the elderly. The government is especially reaching out to the groups as hell. There's a senator here who's worried about her. I don't need to be told that older citizens need to be treated better because I think the time in the Republic story will be difficult to find where there has been a greater improvement in older citizens than in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u9	Mr. President. I would especially like to welcome the change of viewpoint I have seen in my life, not just of the city of Independence Party, but of members of the Parliament, as well as of independent health professionals. It is good to experience the dramatic change of viewpoint. We see very reasonable statements made by members of the council on social media or elsewhere. We must also remember, though, that not long ago the same members of the council rejected our proposal in the construction of some 200 billion. K. To meet Iceland's Medical Insurance While the government is getting together on health plans and health policy, which is natural enough for her to have time to work. But the people on the list can't wait any longer. Its suffering must cease. We know there's a waiting list on top. It's not gonna work out unless we're all on hand. That's why I'd like to ask the Chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance whether he is in the light of an independent attitude - and it is good for a person to see that management plans are not important when service is granted, public service, can be handled as well as defined by both public and independent sources - will use himself as a financial minister and one of the officials of the government for the increase in health insurance insurance, although only temporarily, to counterbalance the waiting list, which is not least in joint service, and including. to allow health insurance to get them to negotiate with an independent organisation. I understand there are differing opinions within the government, but we can agree to do this at least. temporarily while the government agree on health care and health policy? Give people a waiting hope that their suffering will end while the government agrees on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u10	A respectable president. I am not familiar with the dramatic change of viewpoint that was the red thread of this talk. But I can agree with what. A senator's concern is that we can improve our effectiveness in the health system so that we can dispose of a waiting list. It is a major health issue, but it is also very important for a labour market and other factors, that we come quickly down the waiting lists for replacement operations. This, however, is a very complex matter, and it must be viewed in a complete way. You can't have some pipe view on one wait list and say, "Can't this waiting list be solved? ' The reasons for waiting must be asked. We know, for example. Because at the Land Hospital, we have too many older people who have not received their release in the hospital. It is a special problem, and it is part of the reasons why it is a waiting list elsewhere. What I would have liked for us to do is to look at the health system more frequently according to the patient's best interests. I think we've stuck too often in looking at the health system even from the interests of the individual institutions or our system. We've seen efforts this way, e.g. to the medical facility where we allow funds to accompany patients in the capital area. With that ideologies, I think we could unleash a lot of energy. This is where the nursing home is concerned about the situation at the Land Hospital, and I think we should, for example. to ask ourselves, " Is it really a good way or a wise course for us to let the budget of the time be determined by what means it is available to build up in nursing homes? ' [[The president calls.]] If we were to put the rights only to those in need of a nursing home, we do not necessarily have to wonder how much money is on the budget of the day, but rather let marketing solutions come here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer I agree with in many ways. I'm especially glad it's not some sort of change of attitude in the Independence Party. Not without reason did I talk about change of viewpoint, for that was a few months ago at the budget that we made for 200 million. K. I suggest that it was only temporary to resolve and meet the waiting lists, but all the members of the Independence Party rejected it and made the suggestion. I am fully aware that the government has to agree on a comprehensive policy. I would like and call for that focal point, especially in nursing homes, to be more apparent in financial and health programs. We're working on it, and let's be sure about it. What's urgent now is that we can't really send out the message to the people on the list that we need to take a closer look at it. This whole thing has been examined. It can be temporarily fixed now, the pitfalls of requisitions, by turning to an independent community member, and thus having an opportunity, including a health minister, to work on their business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. A minister to speak as he spoke in the answer to the government table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u12	The President reminds me of a time limit, two minutes to the first pass, and one minute to the second. That is true of members of Parliament and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u13	A respectable president. We did not vote with the proposal at the time because it was not a permanent solution to the case and did not resolve the facts we have often discussed here, which are about to negotiate with private employment agencies. There, an additional amount of money in itself would not have mattered, nor would the problem, but what I have mentioned here, would have been that we have a condition at the Land Hospital, which will then be linked to the restoration of a local nurse. I want to be a spokesman that we try to better define the rights of health insurance and look more at the health - care system from the rights of the patients, but we don't stick to where the solutions will be. It matters because if we had not an official system but a general private health - care system in the country, people would have to buy health insurance. Then I think it would be pretty clear, in their terms, what the patient's rights were, that would be defined and written out, but it may be a little vague in the public system today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u14	A respectable president. It was in mid December. which the Lawgiver decided to provide an additional budget for the activities of the U.S.A. We also decided to give 276 million. K. in an extra supply to nursing homes, the service there. I'm going to go to the FA for this time, that I've been very fond of. Now I don't have the numbers on rhythms about how many youths have died from addiction the rest of the year while they even waited to be treated. V.E.G. A health minister may know that number, I don't have it, but I know that lately I've read sad news about young addicts' death. I received a letter from the director of April 27th. I know there's 100 million contracts in the hospital. K. Of this financial gain, our extra profits, which are to be used in walking departments. I've never really figured out why people have not been first, detouring and treating them, and then getting into the walking community service. I think this priorities are slightly distorted, in view of the reduction in the number of patients in hospitalisation at Vogi during the year. The amount of money had not paid for it on April 24 despite the contract. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Has this funds paid off since April 24th? We've been waiting a long time for it to get home. If it isn't, I'd like to know what's taking so long, because according to the information I've got, the managers there conscientiously tried to match all the requirements that Iceland's health insurance has asked about sending all the data and information within their power to help get this funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u15	A respectable president. There have been quite regular contact here at an unprepared question time to go. A senator quotes a recent e - mail from the United States about one thing or another. What I want to say first of all is that it's interesting. A senator repeatedly refers to the General Assembly's approval of a budget to add 150 million to support the activities of the U.S. walks. It's just as interesting. In that vote, a senator did not vote for the 150 million. It's also interesting that when it rains. A senator does not vote for this 150 million for walking services, but she understands the will of the council in some way that this money was to be used for another, i.e. In the hospital, Vogs. I'm gonna pray. A senator's only to watch out for this. I'd like to maintain that Iceland's Medical Insurance has a health authority assignment to communicate with health workers as well as with the U.S.A. This process is a natural part of the cooperation between responsible parties and health care professionals. When it occurs repeatedly that information is not received in the way it should be received, i.e. The data received by Iceland's Medical Insurance from the relevant source are wrong, they need to be asked again. Unfortunately, this has been repeated in Iceland's relations with the U.S.A. and health insurance. I expect the communications that need to be sold and paid for this service can happen between informed and responsible parties at Iceland's Medical Insurance, between U.S.A. and health insurance, but not repeatedly between here. paritaprevir Sæland Howil and the health minister we've got here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. How I voted with this bill or this change in budget and budget this fall - I have reasoned that it was only because I thought it was the wrong priorities. To me, it was worth more to prevent premature deaths. My priorities were far superior when I tried to reduce the number of 600 people on a waiting list, from people who were too high to ask for help in a hospital. I need medical assistance beyond what we can see at the U.S.A., so I say: As long as this situation remains in this system, I will continue to talk to the highest level. A health minister on these matters and perhaps, if the legislation is violated that the general will of the Council cannot be passed without any condition, it is time to go to the highest level. A health minister will consider changing the legislation into having no doubt about what the lawgiver would like when we call out that a certain additional contribution is made to certain necessary measures for the benefit of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u17	A respectable president. That was very clear when the Allied Council decided to make an additional financial decision. It was marked with ears, defined by the General Assembly, by a budgetary committee, and by a release at the council. I'm glad that's the way it is. It is true that this is the case with the General's decision to establish a set set set of priorities, and that was done by the General of Congress. Thus it should be, and when the Council gives its will in such a decisive way to minister at any given time, the secretary should follow the decision of the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] That's the way it is. The claims that payment at the Vogs Hospital is not correct. It is of particular concern that the government of the United States chose to reduce the availability of services, and I can't see that this decision is successful or supported by any reasonable argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u18	Mr. President. First, with President's permission, I would like to read from the resolution of the Independence Party's discovery last year, which says: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether he recognizes this conclusion and whether he even accepted it in his own time. I'm asking because last March there were some discussions about this case in the highest degree. The minister said, with the permission of the president: ▪ So let us consider what we have to do on the inside market of Europe to deal with electronics that are monotonous in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic power issues from Iceland? I find this very interesting statement, and I'd like to know if the Minister still feels the same way, if he thinks it's equally ludicrous that we're discussing, let alone agreeing with, a matter of Congress that will follow in that direction that the Minister warned us last year. I suppose a minister will support the four cases because they went through the government. I have to ask a minister in view of the instructions he made last year and in view of the conclusion of the Independence Party's discovery last year, if he still feels the same way, that this is not part of the program. Will he then, at the time still available at the council, be able to prevent the four issues that are here to be taken care of by those who wish to prevent it? I want clear answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u19	A respectable president. There is much in the conclusions of the Independence Party. A senator did well to examine himself. I'm sure that if he's thinking of changing classes in the future, there's a lot there to find that he'd like. If he was to read my speech, I am sure that if he listened carefully to what it says about the various subjects, he too would be pleased with many of what it says. In particular, regarding this issue, the Independence Party concluded that control of the European Union's electricity market should not be moved to the institutions of the European Union. I believe the cases leading up to the council are of the nature that it is not happening, that the transfer of power over the European Union's electricity market is moving to the institutions of the European Union. Counts 'em out. A senator saying it's happening or something? Which EU institutions are the ones receiving the authority over the Icelandic electricity market? We need to make a distinction - and now I'm referring to the way the matter is presented - to energy as part of the European Economic Area, where electricity has been defined from the beginning as a product that needs to match the rules, and the fourth part of the contract is the basis for the trade of many people in the European Economic Area. The difference must be made between this and the other electronic policy in individual countries. Now it's like we're not bound to electronic energy policy, EU energy policy, we're going to take care of it on our own request in Iceland. We set our own energy policy, we have energy resources in public property and general work in public companies. In that respect, Iceland's electronic products are still in our hands and continue to exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for answering me with a question. I would like to answer that question in words of the highest degree. Minister from last year. Then, with President's permission, he said, and I completely agree with him: ▪ What I have so hard to understand is interest. A senator - who was then talking to the minister -- and some here at the council are expected to be subject to the hand of the Joint European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? I'm asking the highest. Minister: Yes, why on earth? Why on earth do humans continue? What has led to the greatest repentance. Minister from last year? What has caused him to feel so completely about this matter this year? Then I'd like to say in the end that I'm not unhappy with what's at its height. A minister has an appointment every time, because it appeared in his words, I listen attentively every time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u21	A respectable president. Whatever it is. In this speech, a senator could not tell what it is in existing Parliamentary documents that include the promotion of power over an Icelandic electricity market to the European Union's institutions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There is a reason, because there is nothing in the matter before the council that does such a thing. It's not enough to refer to my speech in a conversation with why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who made quite a comment to the Independence Party's resolution from last year on, and it was only natural that I asked the senator. If the Independence Party says in the National Conference that they do not want to give up power over electrical activities to European institutions, it is a reason for failure. A senator to come up here and protest? And I asked him why. Senator: Why does he want to transfer power over Icelandic electricity products to European institutions? That was the question. I was having a conversation with what? A senator making a comment on a meeting of the country. However, we now have a matter of Congress, and they deal with energy issues. [[The president calls.]] They do not take control of our Iceland's electronic energy and move it to Brussels. [[The president calls.]] It's not happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u22	A respectable president. In 2007 the government of Iceland set out a free and open software policy, which states in the 2010 State Revision Report that when deciding to buy, such software should be given the same opportunity as special software. It also says that public members will not be too dependent on individual software manufacturers and services. It further states that software designed for public users should be renewed, i.e. That it can be used by more than one institution. Less than a year ago, there were signed contracts signed with Microsoft and Advania on software permits for government agencies. In an announcement that followed these contracts, about 200 million were reported. K. Saves for the state of the year. The treaty united 104 different agreements into one, and it cannot be more than simple. Recently, what was it? Prefect of Pirata, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, request to any minister on the cost of recruitment and the institutions of Microsoft software. The answers that have been received so far do not provide any indication of the savings shown in the announcement of the contracts. Six ministers have answered the inquiry. It seems that when the contract was signed, institutions were successful in reducing the cost of software permits in the past few years, but between 2017 and 2018, it increased by 4%, or less than 11 million. The figures in it speak for themselves and do not show the savings the agreements were to provide. Furthermore, the agreement against government policy on free and open software. So I ask a minister: How can that be a good deal for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u23	Excuse me, Mr. President. I had taken it so that the inquiry would be directed to another minister. I just wasn't paying close attention enough, I have to take it to myself even though I was here at the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u24	Well, that's a problem. The President proposes. agnostic gets the word back and explains his questions and the highest. Secretary of the budget is a good listener.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u25	A respectable president. In 2007 a policy on free and open software was set, which says in the 2010 Kingdom Revision Report that when deciding to buy, such software should be given the same opportunity as special software. It also says that public members will not be too dependent on individual software manufacturers and services. It further states that software designed for public users should be renewed, i.e. That it can be used by more than one institution. Less than a year ago, there were signed contracts signed with Microsoft and Advania on software permits for government agencies. In an announcement that followed these contracts, about 200 million were reported. K. Saves for the state of the year. The treaty united 104 different agreements to one, an excellent monologue. Recently, what was it? Prefect of Pirata, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, request to any minister on the cost of recruitment and the institutions of Microsoft software. The answers that have been received so far do not indicate the savings shown in the announcement of the contracts. Six ministers have answered the inquiry. It seems that when the contract was signed, institutions were doing pretty well reducing the cost of software permits in the past few years, but between 2017 and 2018, it increased by 4%, or less than 11 million. The figures speak for themselves, and they do not show the savings the contracts were meant to give. Furthermore, the agreement against government policy on free and open software. So I ask the minister again, "How can that be a good deal for taxpayers?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u26	A respectable president. I'm sorry for this. But, yes, I'm sure that it will be well understood in what men think the savings are, and I want men to be careful only to try to pluck from their individual plots in small steps and gather in some bigger picture. It's closer to taking advantage of the work that's already taken place, and I'm sure the Department of Economics and Economics will share what we have oversight the cost to that end. However, it was in the leading of this contract work quite clear that the national system was paying for a number of permissions that were not in use. There were also gaps that were being paid, and there was exactly no harmony in leaving the 140 treaties to one. From all the evidence in front of me at the Ministry at the time of the contract, it was obvious that this was an enormous step. Of course, there must be an abundance of minds. It is not just the total cost that tells the entire story about whether we are achieving the advantage. But for this reason, I will call for further answers. I think it's right that we push after the promised economy and that it's clear from the past year that it's developing in the right direction. For open software, there are always assessments which way to use them. But we are not there to trust in building the official information system on open software.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u27	A respectable president. Certainly we need to examine the total cost, since it was reported that this would reduce the total cost of 200 million a year. That's what I'm trying to do by getting all the numbers collected, or why. paritaprevir Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdotir, for the total cost. The answer to the agencies I've asked is that the situations within the institutions were such after the collapse that a software host fingernails had been cut very much, and only the computers that needed software had software, had permission. By the time of the contracts, the institutions had even had to pay permission for all computers, including those that did not need them. The second example is that there was even some permission that was not in use, as much as it was possible for the crash years and the small money there to be. An increase in cost to one institution was up to 200 million at an increase in cost, just for this reason. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u28	A respectable president. Yes, the total cost is important. But what I'm pointing out is that we can't just compare costs regardless of how much, how many permits, and so forth. There are also many other important aspects of the agreements, such as the commitments of Microsoft to the Icelandic language. I made it clear earlier that for this reason, I will follow up on the details of how a new contract is being made. But this is just one example of many in which I believe the state has been spreading the requirements too much by making 140 institutions each of them make software contracts. At that time, we were spreading the requirements too much in various products and services, which we have taken into account during the past few years in cooperation with Kingdom Halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u29	Mr. President. I just want to understand what this is, to say, this is a petition to make up a complete relative of all the rights of children in Iceland under the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which is a law in Iceland, other rights and decisions and so on, so that we can get a complete picture of what children's rights are and who is responsible at any stage of the case in order to ensure that justice is carried out. I called for it the first time I began to do a lot of research. It's unclear. You're trying to ask a minister, the Ministers sometimes refer one to another, etc. There we are fully informed who is responsible for ensuring that children's rights are met. This will benefit us at the council, it will benefit people of the community, both parents and others who fight for their children's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u30	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 63/2018. The Commission has discussed the matter, but with the proposal, Generalis's authority is requested to confirm this decision to change the Annex on financial services. What you take into the contract is two types. First of all, the Commission Regulation 2016/438 of 17 December 2015 is to submit to the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2009/65/EC on the duties of the Member States. Second, it is the Commission's Regulation, the European Commission, 2016/1212 of 25 July 2016 for technical implementation of standard treatments and formats for providing information according to the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2009/65. It is a six-month delay under the EEA Convention to reassign a administrative notice and was granted to the 24 September 2019en proposal is considered by the Committee to be in accordance with Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Regulation requires further implementation of the specific regulations of the directive and the coordination of legislation on the terms of the stocks and the changes made to the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council. The protocol is primarily about processes in providing information from the Rapporteur within the Member States, including to the European stock market of the Agency. It is assumed that the regulations will be implemented by the regulation of the Regulation. The committee proposes that the proposal will be adopted, and that is included in the publication currently written by Áslaug Sigjörn Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Logi Þorgerður Katrín, Gunnar Bragi Rósa, Björk Brynjólfsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þýgritrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u31	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the determination of the Joint Commission No. 20/2018. There is a commitment to financial services and a change to that appendix. The Commission has discussed the situation and has arranged for contacts from the State and Economic and Economic Affairs Department, but with the proposal, the Allegorium warrants the decision for the financial services ceremony at the EEA Convention and internalises the two types of contract. 1st European Parliament and Council Directive 2013/14/EU since 21 May 2013 on the change in Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and monitoring of the organisations responsible for the work-related pension, Directive 2009/65/EC on the compliance of the law and administration directive of the stock market and the Directive 2011/61/EU for the head of the specialists in overconfidence of the financial evaluation. 2. European Parliament and Council 2014/91/EU Directive 23 July 2014 on the change in Directive 2009/65/EC for compliatory legislation on the stock market, labour policies and legislation. On this issue, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was made on 10 August 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. In accordance with Directive 2013/14/EU, there are changes in three funding directives, i.e. Directive 2003/41, on the work-related pension fund, Directive 2009/65, on the stock market and Directive 2011/61, on the head of specialized funds. The directive requires that pension funds, stocks and professional investors not only be used in a third party's credit score when evaluating risks on investment assessments. The aim is to improve the quality of the investors'funds and extra investors. It has no effect on the Icelandic pension fund. Directive 2014/EU will implement changes to the Council Directive and Council No. 2009/65/EC on conformity to law and administration directives in terms of the stock market. The directive is intended to replace the weaknesses that have been identified in this stock market structure and that have led to investment loss. They are endeavoring to increase the security of investors with legal requirements for the clear role of retailers, new rules that include business partners setting up specific employment policy policies for employees and other organisations who make decisions affecting the risk of stocks and business partners and with the requirements for conformity to the minimum health authority of the Rapporteur. The implementation of the directives calls for legal adjustments and is expected to submit financial and economic ministers to the Fall Council of 2019 for a change in law No. 128/2011, the stock market, investment funds and the remuneration, as well as the secondary changes. The committee proposes that the proposal will be adopted, and that is included in this publication, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigjörnótttir, Logi Einarsson Katrín, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bárnar Haraldsdóttir, Góri Sveinsson Sjörk Brynjólfsdóttir Brryjolf's daughter, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdotsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður Katrinthóður Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u32	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 64/2018, which is also a change in the Annex on Financial Services. The Commission has discussed the situation and has contacted people from the State Department and the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Economics, but this body of Congress is suggested to enumerate the agreement four types. First, European Parliament and Council Regulation, No. 345/2013, of 17 April 2013, on a European risk fund. Second, it is European Parliament and Council Regulation, No. 346/2013, of social contributions. Third, the Commission Regulation, No. 593/2014, from 3 June 2014 on technical implementation of reporting forms. 1.mg. Section 16. Council and Council Regulation, No. 345/2013, about a European venture fund. And fourth, this is the Commission Regulation, No. 594/2014, from 3 June 2014 on technical implementation of reporting forms. 1.mg. 17th par. Council and Council Regulation, No. 346/2013, of the European Social Resource. Similar to other matters, we have a six-month delay on the EEA Convention to lift control arrangements, which was granted in this case to 24 September 2019, and the proposal is considered by the Committee to be in accordance with Article 7. The rules on how to handle such issues. With Regulation No. 345/2013 and 346/2013 are set up on a consistent regular work for the European Social Resource and Risk Fund, the aim of promoting the growth and production of SMEs in the European Economic Area. Is the objective of the Regulation No. 336 to facilitate investors who wish to invest in enterprises with social objectives to find and select a European social initiative, but Regulations 593/2014 and 594/2014 allow further implementation of Regulations 345/2013 and 376/2013 and measure the reporting form of the European Commission, the European Commission's home-of-the-house budget for monitoring authorities in the host state of the control of the administration and from the European Commission to the European Topic Centre. The implementation of the Regulation calls for a legal adjustment and is assumed that financial and economic ministers will bring up the upcoming legislation committee for its introduction, So the committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted. Under it is written by Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Logi Trausti Guðmundsson, Brísdótti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Sveinsson Sjönnsson, Róse Brynjólfsdóttir Brjornóttir, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u33	A respectable president. We're going to continue with Congress resolutions based on financial services, i.e. changes to the regular work of the European Union and we have adopted the EEA Convention. I hereby recommend a committee study of a synonym which confirms the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 21/209, change in IX. The annex to the EEA Convention is restricted to financial services. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Erna Hjaltested, Gunnla Helgason and Marta Margrét Rúnarsdóttir from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision made on February 8, 2018, by the European Commission on the basis of a review of the Commission's requested supplement for financial services, and in the contract of the European Parliament's Regulation on the cross-requisite payment for the card-related payment. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings was issued to 9 August 2019. The proposal's presentation is considered, in view of that. The Foreign Affairs Committee, in line with Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The protocol is intended to reduce the cost of sales and consumers, to improve competition and to promote integration of credit card markets across Europe. The Regulation set out a limit for the cross-cutting fees which could be paid to carers for the use of credit cards to consumers, 0.2% of the money paid for debet cards, and 0.3% for credit cards. These regulations require bans on local restrictions in the permit contracts or in the credit card system regulations and recommend separation of credit cards and processing tools, increased access to carers and traders to determine payment practices, disassemblement of services, transferlers and information provisions for the sales markets. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments, and the secretary of finance has provided a bill for the induction of the procedure. That bill is case No. At this assembly, 636 has been discussed. The Economic and Business Committee is now in charge of the Commission's opinion. It is not much to say that there seems to be a lot of luck with this bill, since this is the main focus of improving consumer protection. Under the Commission's opinion of the State Department, with me Álug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Director of the Committee, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Shilg Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Logi Einarsson Einar Mccarthy, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfófótir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u34	A respectable president. As I told you before, we have a package in place where laws on financial services and the opinion of the State Department of State are being made on the basis of a decision made by the European Commission No. 18/209, change in IX. The appendix. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Erna Hjaltested, Gunnla Helgason and Marta Margrét Rúnarsdóttir from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 18/2019 of February 8, 2018, of the change in IX. An Annex, is subject to financial services, to the EEA contract and to entry into the contract of the Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 909/2014 of 23 July 2014 for the improved stock collection in the European Union and of the stock markets, and for the change of Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 236/2012. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings was issued to 9 August 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The protocol is designed to increase safety and discipline in the stock market. It contains rules for improving the stock market and the standard requirements for stock markets. The work of the labour centres need to apply for a new work permit and be able to extend their service across the borders of the EEA. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments and is intended to put financial and economic administrators on the current legislature board for the implementation of the procedure. There's a legal case at the highest. Minister but has not yet been submitted. I suppose that will be the case in the fall election like many of the issues we're discussing here today. Under this committee, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Chairman of the Committee, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Logi Einarsson Einar Mccarthy, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfófótir, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u35	A respectable president. This is the third and final opinion I recommend today. They all submit to financial services. There is a synopsis proposal to confirm the decision of the joint EEA on the change of IX. The annex is on financial services at the EEA Convention and shall be included in the contract of Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1129/2017 for a description to be published on the market or on business oers. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Erna Hjaltested, Gunnla Helgason and Marta Margrét Rúnarsdóttir from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal is to consult the Council's authority to confirm for Iceland the proposed decision made by the European Commission and to enter the contract of the European Parliament regulations for this. They deal with descriptions that should be published on the market or on business oers and on the disposal of the Directive No. 71 of 2003. This is a rule, no. 1129/2017, replaces current lighting regulations. This includes a system of state-of-the-art reports of state-of-the-art surveillance descriptions of other EU executives for business across the border, which is also called the English language of the English language. The aim of the Regulation is to ensure investment protection and effectiveness of markets while improving the internal market for funding. The availability of enterprises should be financed, in particular SMEs, with various simplicitys of regulations and management. The proposal was referred to the 19th March and the Commission's Regulation was adopted on March 29 of the past year by decision made by the joint Commission No. 84/209, change in IX. Annex to the EEA Treaty for financial services. In view of this, the Committee considers it proper to suggest a modification of the proposal to refer to the decision of the joint EEA committee in a standard way. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings was issued until September 30, 2019. Implementation of the Regulation calls for laws that are priority to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. It is proposed that financial and economic ministers will provide prime returns for the production of the model at the Fall Summit of 2019. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the adjustment proposed in the committee's opinion. It was said, by permission of the President: The Council of Nations concludes to allow the government to confirm for Iceland on behalf of the decision made by the European Commission No. 84/209 [December 29, 2018] change in IX Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Member State Regulation of the European Parliament and Council (EU) 2017/129 from 14 June 2017 on a description that should be published on a general market tenders or taken into account for the breakdown of Directive 2003/71/EEC. The proposal's headline is that it will be proposed to be a synonym for confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 84/209, change in IX The Annex (Preparation Service) to the EEA Convention. This is only technical changes in view of the fact that the European Commission has been adopted since its introduction. Under this committee, write with me, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir; Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótttir, Gunnar Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Logi Einarsson Mccarthy, Trausti Satri Guðmundsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótsdótir, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. A respectable president. I can see that it's a baloney interest to lift controlled warnings when it comes to such a case in a Senate hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u36	V.E.G. President. I am very pleased to present a panel of members with a turnaround proposal for international development cooperation in Iceland of 2019-22023. State Department. The committee discussed the matter and moved quite a number of visitors to discuss what had also been reported. Among them were members of the State Department of State, Social Science, Iceland's University, Association Schools and the United Nations Geography, Children's Health, SOS, Children's Farms, the Church's Help Department, and the Red Cross in Iceland. On National Development Teams of Iceland, No. 121/2008, it is decreed that the minister should every five years propose a resolution to the General Recontractation of Government Policy on Iceland's international development team to five years, where there will be goals and emphasis on litigation. The proposal is to set this policy prior to this period of 2019/2023. A two-year schedule is then submitted, as suggested by the package I. The basis for policy development is the UN's global objective and the Treaty on Iceland's International Developmental Team and the Icelandic Peace Guard and its participation in international peacekeeping, No. 73/2008. The proposal was proposed to a developing teamwork committee in line with the National Developmental Team in Iceland and followed by its review as appendage II of the proposal. In accordance with the government's confidentiality, a proposal was made that the policy was tried as hard as it could take into account the three reports received there. This follows a report on the implementation of the Parliamentary Protocol on Iceland's International Development Team for 2013-2016 following the proposal to follow Article III. The report shows that the development of Iceland's cohesion is producing results and leads to greater prosperity and progress in poor communities, but the proposal is that Iceland supports the future vision of the UN's global aims for a sustainable world and that Iceland's policy is also taking into account the international agreements that Iceland has become a member, approved or validated, to form in the field of rights, and the Paris Convention on Climate. In particular, Iceland supports the goal of the United Nations that industrialized countries provide at least 0.7% of the population income for development cooperation as well as the goal of providing at least 0.2% of the resources of national income to the poorest developing countries. Then the proposal is to maintain international development cooperation as a major part of Icelandic foreign policy and an important link in national security policy, while membership in the United Nations will remain the core of Iceland's development partnerships. It is also necessary to enable different parties to cooperate in order to achieve set targets. Human rights should be guided by all policies in which equality between the sexes and the rights of children and other vulnerable groups should always be foremost. The main issues of this policy are: responsibility, success and dependability. The comments given to the committee, and under the treatment of the case, the proposal was a positive one and should be welcomed. The key observations turned out that the objective of reaching the stated objective of Iceland's contributions to development work was 0.7% of the gross resources of national income. Yet, it would certainly be a positive step toward making contributions of 0.35% of the year 2022. At the same time, attention was given to the importance of increasing participation in civil society and economic activities in the area of international development cooperation. Finally, it was noted that some of the budgets that go to the seminar are spent with refugees and candidates for international protection in Iceland, which are referred to in the financial programme for contributions. The committee rejoices that the proposal has come and believes it is an improvement. It is important that the Icelandic government supports the UN's earlier goal for industrialized countries to provide 0.7% of the population's income for development and that the Icelandic government allows at least 0.2% of the resources of national income to the poorest developing countries. The committee welcomes the significant increase in donations for development during the 2013-2017 season and considers the key to the success of Iceland's work to be shown. The committee also agrees with the treatment views that it is important to work diligently to reach the 0.7% goal. The Committee considers it positive that the United Nations University has a successful place in policy, as it is, and that it is important to continue to emphasise the development of individuals and institutions in developing countries with the function of the Ecological School, Earth's School, Land - healing School, and the Marine School. The Commission will also agree with the findings in the management situation that land healing has become a special area of focus for sustainable use of natural resources, as well as climate and environment. The committee also believes that it may be interesting to consider the possibility of increasing the involvement of civil society and employment. The committee suggests a change in wording in accordance with indications received by the Commission in reviews of the proposal. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: For emphasis and goals: 1st C-duce 2. Number 4. mg. It reads: Restore ecosystems, sustainable land use, and land eschatological declines. 2. 1.mg. Il. Subsection, the protection of the earth and the sustainable use of natural resources, then put it: The Icelandic government is helping to increase the development of developed societies to promote economic growth on the basis of equal and sustainable resource efficiency, as well as action on climate change. Emphasis will be placed mainly on the use of geothermal and renewable energy, the sustainable use of marine resources, lakes and countries, recovery of ecosystems and measures to increase compensatory measures and adaptation of communities due to climate change impacts. 3. 4 mg. Il. Subsection, Earth's Protection and sustainable use of natural resources, says: Help will be provided to limit land erosion and recovery of confounding ecosystems. Such measures should include increased food supply, improved water supply, and increased carbon uptake in soil and vegetation. In this way, the harmful effects of climate change will be reduced. Special attention will be given to the development of knowledge and ability in the field of sustainable agriculture and land - healing rights. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, was absent from the case. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einar Einarsson and Smári Mccarthy are signing this opinion in advance that they intend to explain in speech. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. Foreign Affairs Committee for the cooperation of the case. It went very well, and it was fun to discuss this case on the committee, especially after the two committee tours due to our two - sided cooperation in the Malawi region of Mangochi, where the results achieved by such cooperation could be clearly seen, as you can see further in the report by the minister of state that was submitted earlier this week. Under this committee, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Brótti Bryndís, Gólí Smári, Gunnar Bragi Mccarthy, Logi Einarsson Þorgerður Katrín, Björk Gunnarsdóttir Brynfjörnótsdófótir, Jr.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u37	Madam President. Yeah, I'm right on this one. It is always good when we give more money and more responsibility as a rich nation toward poverty, injustice, inequities, and poverty in other parts of the world. It is also true that the issue presented itself. paritaprevir Áslajar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, that she and I had the opportunity to see firsthand the results of such activities in Malawi earlier this year. It was literally amazing to see that a small country, by a wise means of two - sided cooperation, could accomplish so much, and especially help to build up wood and knowledge of the administrations down there to attack poverty, gender, and other such. Maybe that's why I'm in this case in advance that I think we should do better. A major part of our international commitments is to attack poverty through development. I don't know. I don't think it's the right thing to do with this council-sounding proposal that doesn't make any sense. Although the centenarian had been rising in recent years, including with increasing national income, changes in success, and so forth, it is far from the fact that we can be satisfied. Our contribution is set out at the end of a five - year financial program, and we are still far from achieving the goals of the United Nations, which the Committee blames and, in fact, also in the synonym that we have as industrialized countries to achieve it. What I have at the proposal to consider, in addition to the fact that we're not making it any more than expected, I don't think it's clear enough in the Congress resolution when we're going to do it. I realize that this is a five - year schedule, and it has been said that it can be difficult to set time goals there. But I still feel that it might have been done. I would like to compare the way this is being done among our neighbors, i.e. In the countries we compare ourselves with, and we want to compare ourselves. We're in charge of the Norwegian Minister and the Supreme Minister. In his report, the minister of foreign affairs wrote that we are taking the lead among our cousins. I feel that such statements sound hollow when we are very close to many others, although we can, of course, demonstrate good results, even when compared with them, in other areas. The country best proposed development is Sweden with 1.4%, Norway has 1.05%, Denmark with 0.85% and Finland at 0.56%. In fact, that amount has been down to the right of the government in recent years, but I hope that it will be changed because some groups have declared time - consuming goals to achieve it back to 0.7%. Besides us, Finns are the only ones who haven't made it yet. Besides, I feel that it should have been even more clear to discuss how much of an ear -marked development team goes to domestic assistance with inmates and refugees. I realize that there may always be something, and I understand the average of these FAC countries being 12%. It's 36% here, I think, and it's too much, at least need to be highly defined as what is behind. Work is beginning to meet these new spiritual goals, such as the Minister of Ministers declared willingness to do. I understand that from time to time with 2019 it changes, so, of course, things look for better ways. There is no disagreement at the council. I think, fortunately, all of us are in agreement that we must do well in this regard. We will only guess how fast we will be able to do so. I think it's extremely important that we take our steps to the earth and show that we are going to take pride in this. We look at a globe that faces enormous problems. There we can mention inequities, wars, and the climate threat, which will not least affect those nations who rely on developing cooperation. I think that we in Western lands simply owe many countries in faraway parts of the world to make a good impression. Apart from the fact that the resurrection of poverty brings benefits to all mankind in general. We will never be able to overcome these three threats, the threat of war, and the climate threat, unless countries will be equal in the quality of life. Of course, I'm glad that this synopsis proposal has come up and will vote for her because it's heading in the right direction. But that said, I feel that it is out of control and that it is too ambitious. We should be able to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u38	Madam President. There is good reason to support this matter, and it is vital that we do well in all aspects of development. Still, I made a note of the committee's opinion, mainly because I feel, just like that. paritaprevir The need for us to live up to the commitments we have made is important to the son of Einarsson. Then, of course, I refer to the 0.7% of GDP to developing issues that have long been the goal. They've never been caught. And when the stated goal is not reached for years and even decades, you will begin to ask yourself, " Is it declared in order to have it declared - or is it declared in order to achieve it possibly? ' You're beginning to suspect that it's the former, that there's not necessarily anything behind it. Of course, during recent years, it is considered that there have been quite a significant rise in development issues, but it is only a bit foolish to go on with a raise of crowns, which is not in the spirit of understanding, which is the basis for this 0.7% of GDP that has been decided to apply in an international setting. When we bring up a centenarian, we are simply saying that since we are a little richer today than yesterday, in some way we have become better people. I think it's at best wrong and probably considerably worse than that. Furthermore, our accounting is a very serious flaw when action involved in law enforcement and assistance with refugees in this country are thought to be a developing aid in some sense. Of course, there are books that need to be corrected because when people are here, they are no longer people in lands who need development help. Rather, they are Western people, who are developing a kingdom that is asking for personal assistance because they could not get the help they needed at home. It's kind of obvious. And the fact that we should continue to consider ourselves doing our basic responsibilities in some way is a little awkward. There is reason to mention in this context, so I refer in a good book by the Branko Milanovic called Global Insequity, or Uncoolized in the world, that we are still in the position that the birthplace of people in the world is probably the major factor that determines how much money people can earn over the lifetime. According to Milanovic, the birth country alone can produce up to two thirds of its life. The same book points out that in recent decades the number of people in the first and in other commercial sectors worldwide has increased most in income. It really means nothing more than that people who had an an hour's salary a day, or a hundred bucks a day. daily, in income, it is now up to 200 bucks. a day, which sees significant results in percentages but, nevertheless, is on the edge of hunger, no matter what country you live in. At the same time, the largest group that has increased worldwide is the tenth income. Of course, it's almost impossible to compare these groups together: when those in the tenth ten of them rise by 60% relative to their previous position in a decade, it means an increase of hundreds of thousands of dollars and/or more million dollars. every year. In this context, it may also be appropriate to think about the big changes that are taking place in the world because things are bad now, and they all know, but the situation may become much, much worse. The excellent book David Wallace-Wallace-Wells, entitled The Uninhabitable Earth, or Uninhabitable Earth, shows that at 2° the average atmosphere, which is virtually impossible to prevent such an issue, we look up at the collapse of the ice bell and that more than 400 million people worldwide will live in a lack of water. Large cities around the center will be uninhabitable, and even relatively north of the world's stupid confusion and subterranean waves will kill thousands each year. That's what we're talking about, for example. 32 times the number of extreme heat waves in India, a land in which there is much poverty even now. This is, of course, the best case - based on an increase of 2°. If we are talking about a 2° rise, we are talking about the collapse of agriculture in Europe, and we can imagine what the situation will be like or near the Middle Circle. So our responsibility for preventing climate change is enormous in this context. We need to realize that if we find that 0.7 percent of our problems now, we can pray for what it will be if things go wrong. In addition, we need to examine the effects of industrialization. Now that the beginning of the industrial revolution, the gap between the world's poorest and the richest people has not yet been replaced. And now, many countries that have been considered to be developing countries have been developing for a very long time, and then maybe China is the closest case. But it remains that many countries are still struggling to achieve even the fundamental technology progress, such as running water in every house and electricity in every house, which we believe is a perfectly normal and taken part of our lives today. But if we add to that, this so - called fourth predicting revolution, we can expect that the influence of self - efficiency and artificial intelligence will even increase the gap between the richest and the poorest people in the world. Then there will be even more reason for us to pay attention to how these matters will be handled in the near future. There is a powerful link between the amount of inequity in the world and the number of people in need of help. And it would be best if we were to arrange for a fixed scale of infrastructure and technology to prevail between countries so that development aid would no longer be needed, that markets and normal world traffic covered all the equalities needed. But we are not there, and we will not be able to get there by doing so badly. That, as I said before, beating about 0.35% of GDP in 2022, acting as if it were in some way funny, President, in the condition we know we're facing, that there is a possibility that if the climate warms up as predicted, we could look up at a billion people in the worst cases - or not even the worst case, but it's just one of the more likely if we go up to two degrees. So there are a million refugees from Syria suddenly becoming such a convenient and convenient problem that we could have dealt with right in our time. If the world's countries are going to take evolution and development aid seriously, they can't afford to spend a little more dollars today simply because it is in their own interests to do better so that they don't have to deal with bigger problems in the future. It's a clean taste of interest, without you pointing into the many human rights and humanitarians that are present in these cases. If we have a problem with this, we'll have to deal with considerably more refugees in the future and we'll have to deal with considerably greater problems in our future economy. It will be harder for us to approach food and other things. I don't think that in itself is the reason we should be watching. But if people are not willing to reach 0.7% of the objective of pure humanitarian activity alone, they should at least look to their own interests and conclude that we are to do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u39	President. We're here to discuss a review of a new proposal for the resolution of a policy on Iceland's international development team in 2020223. I'm going to explain a brief warning that I had agreed on to the committee's opinion. He does not lie to the main ingredient of the synoptic decree or to the committee's opinion. It's a bit traditional. They're adding. We are happy to see that there is a measure of ambition in raising our donations. I especially rejoice to see that in view of the fact that some years ago, those who are now in charge were not paid very much for raising a large amount of development aid. Anyway. It's a pleasure to see that Iceland's donations are uplifted. Of course, we still have a long way to get to where we have promised to go. Ask yourself, " Is it really healthy for us to have goals that we are constantly drawing back from setting aside rather than a reliable schedule where everyone can agree to achieve the goal in a shorter period of time? ' When light began to begin after the collapse, a great promise was made on the part of the then government, the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which, of course, did not stand up for any reason. Still, we are to look at these important issues rather than merely helping poor people, of course, about protecting the whole world, making it possible for most of the world's inhabitants to live in decent conditions and conditions. Developmental issues focus on trying to prevent further negative trends in climate, global warming, desertification, etc. Developing issues and such are about equalizing the interest of people, with the aim of more people to be fair, that more people can fight the disaster that clearly follows environmental change. One of the important things to do in this regard is that in view of the high emphasis Iceland has spent over the years on equality and the equal share of women and men, I think it would be interesting to see where we can apply ourselves further in fighting for women's ability to possess e.g. Land and land quality, business, business with men. It is not necessarily too many countries. However, there is an opportunity for us to discuss, or a plan, that we should consider. The synopsis itself is spoken of as a short, I think, of this party when it comes to the initiative we have to promote, you see, women. The UN 13/25, which is very important, about women, peace, and security, is mentioned, but especially, we need to consider economic factors in which we can work hard to improve women's status and interests. This reminds me of a story I heard when I visited Malawi, as many here have. There, funds were given to a group of women to buy bicycles. They were supposed to be able to buy two bicycles, reminds me, to travel around visiting women in child care or to help them. These fine women decided to rent one of their bicycles. They rented it to a man who could use it, and they obtained considerable funds that they could use to strengthen and further strengthen the environment they were working on. There we see that it doesn't take much to turn on the sparks of people who spend the rest of their days trying to save themselves. That's where we saw it. I would also like to mention an article from the synopsis. The report on page 8 speaks of international development cooperation, which we know. Of course, we are to follow the agreements or agreements we have signed and have decided to participate, such as the Paris objectives and funding of evolution in Addis Ababa and all that. I am concerned, though, that I find that the government's thought to try to create positive incentives to combat the increase in emissions and greenhouse effects. I would have liked to see that instead of constantly looking at paying up such things as carbon taxes and carbon taxes and things like that, we would go the other way, e.g. Simply give a tax charge to those who are willing to place their fossil fuel vehicle and go on an environmental vehicle, to create some kind of tax rhythm system, rather than try to force it - in fact, I don't think it has much to do with raising the carbon tax price, since people have to continue to make their own way. So I think it'd be better to do it in a positive way. Enough about that. The reason I'm on the committee's alert is that I don't feel completely -- I don't know how to put it in the right order -- the harmony between what we saw in the budget and what we see in the development team. Because we know, and it has been shown that there is a review or a change, if I understand this correctly, of how we can calculate our contributions and that it is due this year. I think something special that's not being handled, that doesn't provide any information in itself properly for the Committee. It may be natural for humans not to be far enough. I find it a little special, then, to agree to a program where some exchange and percentage and so on, when all of this may even change, as I have understood the case, especially if we have to recalculate all our contributions based on what we can take and what we can't do. That's what happened to me in front of this whole thing. Then I'd like to mention that over the years, our attention has been very focused on the temperature and equality of the seabed, which is extremely good. I think, however, that we should pay even more attention and even look to the possibility of setting priorities - always bad to say that because it can be misunderstood in every way - and look more closely to the factor that I think we can do much more than we do today, that is, when it comes to sustainable agriculture, land rights, which is precisely marked and established by the changes made by the Committee. The U.S. university of land healing, one of the U.S. universities, is an amazing institution. As with the other schools, the work there is tremendously remarkable and good. I think it would be interesting for the Icelandic government to try to make better use of the expertise there is, and to promote it even more fully, as deforestation is one of our greatest problems today. It is especially the influence of the worsening health around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u40	Madam President. As we have seen, we're here to discuss a Parliamentary arrangement for international development cooperation in Iceland in 2019-22023. We know that the most powerful means to promote peace in the world is to reduce inequities. The focus of the government on foreign affairs must be in my opinion to give a thorough witness, since direct action, talks, and publications can be progressively helped to reduce inequities. And when it comes to direct action, it is a process such as development teamwork. We can do this on a global scale in order to level the world's ideals, but as we know, one of the greatest threats to world peace is growing. When it comes to accessing resources and natural quality, the source of conflict, poverty, and social degradation is often inexplicable, resulting in an unfair difference in quality between people of the world and a more intense conflict between them. There is a foundation for peace between people, and Iceland will be talking and exerting itself completely. We must be fearless in our priorities in international affairs, to promote and direct ourselves in a direct and decisive way to bring about radical changes in how we interfere with the power of the state as well as within it, such as between classes, genders, and races. Iceland's supposed to know that it's an international economic equation between people that reduces the risk of conflict breaking out. Then comes our emphasis on developing cooperation, which is discussed this time. This proposal will introduce our future development cooperation and have financial and financial resources to the seminary been very much discussed in the discussion. The comments given in the treatment of the case of the committee were consistent with the claim that the proposal was positive and should be welcomed. The main observations turned out that it was not far enough to reach the stated objective that Iceland's contributions to development cooperation would be 0.7% of GDP. Yet, it would certainly be a positive step to make contributions at 0.35% in 2022. Indeed, it is very positive that at last Iceland's contribution to development is expected to increase gradually over the next few years. As before, I welcome the emphasis in Iceland's development partnerships that are presented in the Parliamentary arrangement for empowering women and girls in developing countries and extending their access to education. But, like other senators here, I would have liked to have seen an even more ambitious goal in Iceland's budget for developing cooperation, that we would finally fulfill our promise to fulfill the United Nations aim to provide 0.7% of the nation's income for development, and that we finally put ourselves on the side of the countries that we're all going to do. This may be especially true when the wealth of the Kingdom has rarely been so successful or as good as ever. As mentioned in this article, it is important for the Icelandic government to support the UN's previously mentioned goal that industrialized countries provide 0.7% of the gross resources of national income for development and that Iceland allows at least 0.2% of the money of national income to the poorest developing countries. Of course, the committee agrees with the treatment views that it is important to work diligently to achieve this objective of 0.7%. But I would also like to draw attention to what is presented in the committee's opinion that some of the funds for the seminar are being spent to help refugees and candidates for international protection in Iceland. Unfortunately, Iceland still provides too much of that contribution to developing cooperation with refugees and refugees here in the country. And while they are part of the official international development programme for Iceland, it simply does not fall under general definition of development cooperation and is by no means consistent with Iceland's priorities. This ratio is mentioned in the last peer circulation of the DiaC Committee, which is less than 12◯13% of Iceland's resources involved in the matter of refugees and inmates of developing cooperation funds. We hope that most of us can agree that there is truly a need to increase the amount of money to the suitors and welcome to people who are looking for international protection and not to take that amount of money from the developing community. The causes of refugees and the hospices in this country fall under the Department of Health and Internal Affairs and should be separate from Iceland's contribution for international development. To that end, Iceland has to accept responsibility and put people in need to help out, not only by accepting more refugees but also by supporting them in being able to live with dignity elsewhere in the world. But this also happens through development cooperation and more money for that work. In the United States, we have a moral obligation to increase their contribution in evolutionary and humanitarian matters, so we should pursue our course of action because no one wants to escape. No one chooses the task of fleeing his home because of war, war, or poverty. I would also like to use this opportunity in my discussion of the Congress resolution and to commend what has been done well in development cooperation by the government and the work done by the Icelandic government and by the Icelandic employees of development. Icelandic projects have attracted a great deal of attention, and financial resources have been well - used. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the changes in wording about the environmental factor that is becoming a larger and more extensive aspect of development. We can see in various places that people are fleeing their homes, not just because of war or cutting poverty, but because of climate change. We see this, and it is predicted that the next major global migration will result from climate change. We're more likely to look at the countries around the Sahara Desert in Africa, and that's why we're putting so much work into resisting the climate change we're facing and that we're also linking it to developing cooperation. These changes in wording match points received by the Commission in reviews of the proposal. I want to draw attention to them because we are at a major milestone regarding the climate. They involve all of us who live on earth, especially the poorest, people who have the most dire circumstances and who have less opportunity than we, who have an abundance to reverse this trend, and who have the strength to help us fight climate change. Madam President. Despite these much comments I make in my talk about our contributions to development, and they strengthened my wishes and other senators to raise the contributions we have made in harmony with the international commitments that we have shouldered and supported, it is still positive that these contributions are raising and that we take full advantage of our efforts to separate these funds from the funds used to receive the trustees and people who are looking for international protection. In both of these categories, we need to place more money on our moral obligations in international affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u41	Madam President. As we have seen, we are offering a proposal for a resolution on a policy on Iceland's international development team to 2023. In this speech, I would like to continue, only during the previous discussion, where I discussed a bit of the focus of our countries in two - sided cooperation, Palestine. I want to start by thanking the good staff of the State Department who has worked on this category and has done very well in my opinion. That has done many good things in this regard, so I would say, internationally speaking. I'd also like to thank you for the work of the Committee that's been good. It is of great value in this category that we have qualified employees who work both at home and in foreign lands. There's a good word from Icelandic employees serving abroad. I know it myself. It is precious to us and precious to men there. That is what it says on page 22. 4 On the cross-cutting issues of the approach of the Icelandic government in all developing activities, the human rights are based on a reference to international standards of human rights. The genders, which are based on human rights, will continue to be the priority for developing cooperation in Iceland. Of course, I welcome this emphasis, which is very important. Then I wanted to come to the affairs of Palestine because there is a land that truly needs help. What matters also in this regard is that our reputation is good among Palestinian governments and Palestinians in general. They're looking up to Iceland. We are like those of the first Western State, who accepted the independence of Palestine, and Palestine deeply appreciates it. Having a good reputation is very important in this work. It is like gold, so to speak, when it comes to this parable. There are people who have lived through a time of disaster and hardship and lack of confidence in people in general. We are aware of the natural influence of our approach to Israel, and the long and large dispute between these two states has a significant effect in the Middle East, but it is also positive that we have good communication with Israel and is important that we take the conversation with the Israelite government about what can be done better in dealing with the neighboring state of Palestine. I've been a spokesman for the President, Madam President, that we may be more compliant when it comes to the search for peace. I believe we have a very good chance there, and especially because we are an armyless people. We are a nation without weapons. It is important when it comes to peace seeking. I put it here that although we are a small nation, we are a large international nation when it comes to peace. This is certainly a special situation that we should make use of and not be afraid to make use of. Then I refer to the importance of trust. In regard to the dispute between the Israelites and the Palestinians, both nations respect us. We were, as I said, first Western nations to accept the independence of Palestine, but we also played a significant role when the establishment of the kingdom of Israel took place in 1948 and the Israelites look up to us in that regard. So there is a special opportunity that I feel is malnourished, and we should take further steps in preparing for some sort of quest for peace. I may not be referring to the entire issue as such but to specific issues that can be applied in a conversation with both the rulers of Palestine and the government of Israel. I mention, for example. freedom of movement. Much of Palestine does not have freedom of movement. Those who live in the West Bank, in Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin, and other cities, would need to, if they were to travel abroad, to travel to Jordan to go outside. They have to make a considerable journey in order to travel abroad, instead of having the authority to fly away simply from Tel Aviv. It takes only half an hour for Palestinians on the West Bank to drive to Tel Aviv, if permitted. But it takes a whole day, sometimes more, even two days to travel to Jordan. There is a measure of human rights that we can certainly speak to these governments about whether they cannot be helped in these matters. It always takes a third party on these matters to come up with things and try to figure out a solution. I'd also like to mention something else that I think we should look into, that is, the job of young people among Palestinians. There's a lot of unemployment on the West Bank and in Gaza. As a result, Palestinians may be well educated, very productive, and proud. Today, very many young people have a college degree, but after college, there is very little job opportunities and unemployment among young people. However, much of these young people are needed in Israel. I think we should try to speak up for a better source of access to employment in Israel. Getting a job in Israel is a very heavy system for Palestinians. The terms and applications take several months, up to a year, and a very limited number are granted professionally. Though there is a need for workers, it is very difficult to get the Israelites to assist in these matters. This is important. When talking to young people in Palestine, their focus is exactly the same as in Iceland, i.e. People want to get home, they want to have a job, they want to start a family. However, this is very difficult because work is very limited for these young ones. I think we could do something good by talking with the Israeli government about it. This is of great importance to society, and there are many problems and problems caused by unemployment, especially in this area, and it is very important to try to correct these issues. There we have an opportunity to make good use of ourselves, and it would be good for us to be able to take part in these matters. We should not be afraid to approach the Israelite government in this regard. Then I'd like to come in somewhere else, since I think we could talk about this, that's adoption. In Palestine there are many homes for orphans. There are many children who are orphans in Palestine and why not. roots are rooted in the culture in which they live. Then we come to something of this importance that is free of women. Thus, if girls become pregnant outside of marriage with Palestinians, and that is true of the Arab countries in general, then that is extremely ill. These girls feed their children but must give them away because their families fail to recognize and ignore these children, who are then not understood, as they say. I've been visiting this kind of orphanage in Palestine. The equipment was nice, but just seeing the crowd was very pathetic. For example, when workers come to work in the morning, there is a baby in a crib outside the abandoned door, waiting to be raised in an orphanage. I think that's where we could try to step up. We could have a conversation with the Palestinic government to pay for adoptions so far from Palestine. Iceland is needed here. There are, according to the last numbers I've heard, over 50 people on a waiting list for adoption here in Iceland, so there could be a real help there. I think there's an opportunity we could take advantage of and try to pay for it, considering that we have a good political relationship with Palestine. Then, of course, I rejoice that we will strengthen international institutions, such as the U.S.A. UNREWA, a worker for Palestinian refugees, is basically a United Nations refugee aid for five countries in Palestinian refugees. We have been very supportive of them by means of financial contributions and employees who have done well and are in great need. In this regard, I think it is also necessary that we examine only where the need is most. I know that, for example. from this facility there is a great need for healthcare professionals. It's under a lot of pressure. This facility I named runs health systems, social systems, and education systems for more than 5 million Palestinian refugees in five countries. This is the largest organization in the United Nations organization that is driven to most of its resources. It does very good things and very important things in the difficult conditions in this area. But most important is health care. The pressures of nurses and doctors are enormous, e.g. down to Gaza, in a medical facility, in a medical facility there, a doctor greets more than 100 patients a day. One patient will have a doctor's sister for three minutes. So the pressure is intense, and I think we can take it by sending nurses, midwives, for example, a great need for them in this area too. This is the focus that I think we should look into and increase our share. Besides, there's something else that I wanted to say in the end, Madam President, in this context. The United Nations Refugee Fund for Palestinians operates in Jordan and Syria and Lebanon. I want to focus my attention on Lebanon because the situation is very difficult in a refugee camp. Lebanon's government has not wanted to pay the streets of these refugees. It keeps it completely isolated. There is no work permit in Lebanon, and conditions in general are difficult. In addition, there is a considerable number of Christian refugees in refugee camps who have been victims of persecution. I have talked about it, and I did so here in this public discourse, that the Icelandic government has promoted it within the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, where we stand, to speak for condemning persecution against Christians. Christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. I think that when we welcome refugees to the country - exactly as we have received refugees from Lebanon - we look to these Christians a little because he is persecuted and truly needs to get away from this place. It is now that adaptation of refugees in Iceland is much easier for Christian refugees. Of course, I am satisfied that we welcome refugees of whatever religion they are, but the adjustment is more difficult. It's a fact that when we receive refugees here in Iceland, which are, for example, refugees. Islam that all adjustments are more difficult. Our culture differs from their faith, and they have had a more difficult form of culture than those who are Christians. I think we should take a look at this part because it looks up to us in these matters, as I say, so I'll finish this speech, and respect Iceland at this point. We have trust. How important it is in this context! I want to finally thank you for this proposal and for the information presented here, and, of course, rejoice that there is an increase in donations to this category. Of course, it is something we should do, and we can totally afford it as a happy nation. The need is great in many places, as we have seen here. Good things are being done, and of course they are thankable. But we should continue to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u42	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee of Health Committee members with a contraband proposal to conduct a decision-making plan for 2019◯022 to strengthen the status of children and young people. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for the meeting of several members of the police in the capital area, representatives from the UNICF office, and representatives from the office of a child's emissary. News came from several sources, from the office of the surgeon, from the office of the Children's Office, the Society of foster parents, the Land Hospital, the National Institutes of Development, the Icelandic Human Rights Office, the Center for Parents and Children, the National Protection, the Association of Women of Foreign descent in Iceland, the Management of Long Children and the Young Peoples Association of Iceland. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that the government will be assigned to set up a timed and financed programme to strengthen the position of children and young people and their families in this country. These suggestions are provided in seven chapters and 49 sections, which include measures to improve the survival of children's families, support the development of children, and promote prevention. By the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, No. 19/2013, the United Nations Children's Covenant was legalized. In general comments by the United Nations Child - Court Committee on the establishment of the covenant, No. 5/2003, the National Committee obliges the need for Member States to implement a collective and collective plan of action that is carried out in order to support and ensure respect for child rights. Is referred to, including that such an action programme should take into account the circumstances of all children in particular considering how to strengthen the position of vulnerable groups. According to the Committee's review, the Icelandic government did not set up such a strategy. However, it was noted that the then social and social equality minister had arranged a panel of members of Congress who had been assigned to review child protection laws and provide other changes that might be necessary to create an overall vision of children's affairs and services. The committee believes that the ideas presented in the council resolution form fit with the work entrusted to the Council Committee. However, in accordance with the tip of the United Nations Child Welfare Committee, the Committee considers the development of children in a clear way to be made up of a financial programme that will be conducted in agreement with all advisers to ensure that the ideas of reforms arise and that the Icelandic state can fully fulfill its commitments according to the children's covenant. The synonym suggests that the government performs such a child - care programme. The suggestion is extensive and aims to improve the survival of children's families, to support parenting, and to promote prevention. Children and young people with developmental defects and mental disorders, long - suffering children, immigrants, children, and young people who have drug problems or behavior problems are suggested to protect children from domestic violence, sexual abuse, and neglect. Although the committee agrees with the views presented in the synonym, the Commission feels that its contents will be used in the government's work for responding to the comments of the United Nations Child Court. In this regard, the panel underlines the General Comments of the Child Court, No. 5/2003, for the children's affairs to be implemented as a plan for action. In order to ensure the cross-cutting of all advisers, the Commission has a need for the government to implement that strategy. According to the above, the commission suggests that the proposal will be referred to the government. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson was away from the hearing. Guðjón's servant Brjánsson Brumánson, an executive forebearer and Vilhjálmur Árnason, were absent at the hearing, but publications under the authority given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this opinion, President Halldóra Mogensen, Brjánsson of the Count, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Insson, Guðvensson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, and Vilmálm Árnason. Madam President. An interpretation of what has been described and tore in brief points to further consideration and development of the government. She was put off by the wind. paritaprevir It's Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter and her gang members in the United States. As we have seen, this proposal is extensive. It is detailed and divided into seven chapters, as has been previously killed, each of which takes important factors to strengthen the position of children and their families in this country. This group is, as we have seen, one of the hearts of the House council. This was shown in committee discussions that no material differences are involved. It was unanimous, but it was acceptable, in view of the current process, to refer to the proposal for further administration of the government - and expected to be of the cross-cutting committee. The reviews received by the committee were all in the same manner, that this suggestion was beneficial, needed, and timely. True, words do exist first, but we do not want the words to be kept empty and, of course, call for real and responsible action. Children's issues have been quite common in recent political discussions, as they were often before. There are a number of urgent assignments that we need to work on and to carry out. Of course, for a note of the emphasis that can be seen in the seminary at this time, it is the case that January 1 became a change in the appointment of a special child - care minister, i.e. The emphasis was made by the minister of Social Affairs now known as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. In addition, as mentioned earlier, a transnational Parliamentary Committee on Children's issues, with support and cooperation with the Management Board on Children's Management Board, is involved in reviewing child protection laws and following the cases of other laws that must be adjusted concomitantly in order to get a full view of child affairs, as the committee puts it to death. Thereafter, a minister made a proposal earlier this week for the interpretation of the child - protection programme by 2019◯22022 and by the 5th paragraph. Child Welfare, No. 80/2002, the Minister shall submit such policies after each district election, which were last for about 11 months. Such policies should be submitted every four years. The development of the new work programme is being carried out by broad and active cooperation with key stakeholders, rural areas and institutions on emphasis and priorities. Madam President. The point of the proposals presented here in a committee party is very familiar with the work in the dough and should be able to facilitate and encourage a real and important plan for the benefit of all children in this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u43	Mr. President. I find it necessary to come here and underline that although we support this fine strategy, which is step forward, it is not sufficient to set the goal of year after year to achieve 0.7% of GDP in developing and never reach that goal and really not reach that goal. We would pray for this goal to be achieved at a much faster and more realistic future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u44	Mr. President. The case we discuss is one of our top priorities in the United States, and it covers a series of actions for the next four years to strengthen the position of children and young people. 1.mg. By permission of the president, it reads: In order to strengthen the position of children and young people and their families in this country, the General concluded that the government would provide a four - year budget for a four - year strategy. The procedure is based on some of the factors involved. the right of children as defined by the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. When I was preparing this matter, I reviewed the United Nations Children's Court of Child rights Committee of the United Nations since January 2012 on the implementation of the European Convention, the 2011 Ministry Committee for Children's Rights and Childbearing Social Services to Children and Families and the European Council on Protecting Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. Also, from 2017 onward, I reviewed the Children's Agent's report on the major concerns as well as the recent reports of an agent of the children. We proposed in this council resolution that a third optional book making up the United Nations Convention on Child Rights would be established in 2019. Such a private bill is before the council, so the council can still take over, even if this council decree is referred to the government. It was also considered in the agreement of this synonym how to ensure that companies make family policy, reduce working time and make work hours more flexible, and make sure that parents can better care for their children, e.g. because of their illness or disability. The comments about the proposal were very positive. There were some tips that were truly worth considering, and I hope they do. The well - being committee has decided that this hearing is not merely the Senate arrangement with the proposed proposals but also a careful review of the comments given to the committee on this matter. For example, it is helpful to consider reviews from the surgeon general, all of whom were very positive, and the reviewers most hoped that this resolution would be accepted. We in the United States would have felt far better if the General could have agreed to assign the government to take a time-settling and funding program for all the major comments that have been made both within the country, from the office of the children, as well as from the United Nations and the Committee for the Council of Europe. However, that was not done. What is second best is just that. The welfare committee does, directing the proposal to the government. I'm sure I'm glad that this suggestion does not fall dead and fall asleep on a committee. Even if this is the case, the committee is made up of it. Of course, some of the initiatives overlap with what is being accomplished, otherwise not, so the proposal is indeed in addition to what the government and the minister of the child's affairs have been working on. But it's a little confusing because it was only last week to the highest. A child - welfare minister recommended a child protection plan. At the same time, a major political committee is working on the affairs of children. She hasn't finished her job yet. You don't know exactly what the final battle plan will be, but hopefully we'll get to take a good look at children's affairs soon at council. I don't think it'll happen at this legislature, but I hope next time, because it's just a few days left, I guess. President. I'd just like to review some of the basic points of the synonym that are now being referred to by the government. Let the motion be accepted as a matter of course. The welfare committee suggests that it is the Council that assigns the government to apply these suggestions and apply them in their plans as appropriate. This arrangement is presented in seven chapters, and chapter I. For measures that improve the survival of a family. It speaks of child reform, the raising of criteria, and the raising of more families as children. The status of students in high school is said to be supported by the purchase of books and other study tools and to be paid up to lunch, those under 18 years of age. It is said that the support of members parents will become greater than today and then that governments will collect information on the benefits of children and their services and use them to ensure the right and well - being of all children, that the information will be analysed by age, sex, habitat, and social background. After the Senate resolution proposal was submitted, the highest level was reached. The prime minister presented changes to the role of the child's emissary, which included the emissary of the children's emissary. to obtain such information. I'm happy about it, but I'm here saying that there are a few things that the government is doing, but that's all there is to it. One that overlaps is the 1st point in II. section; on child support and training activities; on child - rearing operations; on child support: The birth serpent will be extended to 12 months. This is a policy file, this was linked to collective agreements, and hopefully we'll have to be real soon. Among the things referred to in II. Chapter 4 assures us that children, adults, institutions, and professions that deal with children's affairs will be well educated in the children's covenants and requirements. The educational program on the children's covenant will be expected in the secondary part of the class. Officials take advantage of the children's covenant to ensure their child's rights and to evaluate child interests when making decisions that affect children. I think it's very important, e.g. Yeah. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers regularly receive a review of what is said in the children's covenant because we have legalized him, and thus we have promised that in all the laws we agree, we will take into account the benefit of children, in all that we approve in this hall. I really hope that it is always urgent and examined from the viewpoint of children, every case, but I suspect it isn't always. We're gonna go for a second. Councilmen need to make sure that the best interests of children are always the most important ones, as we have promised to do with the child's covenant and the legalization of their children. The fifth proposal in II. section 6 shows that courts and districts respect the right of children to express themselves before making or reevaluating decisions about custody, dating, or residence, regardless of whether there is a conflict between parents or not. 6.The proposal is that the Hospitality Services of the Commission will be expanded so that they can better care for their legal duties in the urgent treatment of children so as to handle such matters as children. He/she will be treated rapidly. The suggestion is to set up a children's house that is working with parents who are in custody, who are abused at home, or who seek international protection, as well as with their child - oriented family advice. That suggestion is an addition to what the Children's House, with a B that we have, and is doing. Then comes III. Chapter of the Prophylaxis Prophylaxis procedure including the for increasing protection in order to improve the health and well - being of children and young people, to ensure that all children will be provided with access to psychological services, both in schools and in health care throughout the country, as well as to introduce especially to children the services available and the rules that apply, such as children's right to confidentiality. We've been discussing in this hall that this is necessary and that's going a little longer than we've been talking about. Eventually, the disabled children will be provided all the necessary support and service, strengthening and strengthening. As late as 2019 C.E., the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People will be legalized. As a result, there are some things that we can work on, even though we do not accept the whole Congress arrangement. IV. A section in which children and young people with psychiatric disorders and developmental abnormalities and long - suffering children are referred to. It most strongly emphasizes the shortening of the waiting period after an extended period of assistance and should not be tolerated and is also referred to as a way to improve follow-up when treating children. Chapter V speaks of actions in behalf of young people with difficulties in behavior and substance use. It specifically speaks of the variety of treatment decisions and of trying to meet the children where they are. This requires a number of measures that are convenient for each individual to resolve frequent and complex problems. In VI. Chapter 1 speaks of acts that protect children and youths from domestic violence and sexual abuse. This is a very important chapter, as they all are seven, but there are actions that I have not seen before in print, but hopefully come about as soon as possible. Step 1 speaks of prevention of sexual abuse, including child pornography. The schedule of action includes particularly high risk groups of children and young people, e.g. due to disability, and those staying at institutions or living in a weak social status Team 2 speaks of child protection as being strengthened by the number of children's guardians to be acceptable and that children can always call or send messages to their child - care provider on duty. Team 3 speaks of the announcements of those working with children and the announcement of the public and steps in order to report anonymous suspicion of child abuse to employees of the institutions. Team 4 speaks of active law enforcement sites on the Internet. This I think is a very important thing. Experts would need to know how to handle this in order to protect children. Article 5 describes the use of legislation as being considered so that security measures can be taken after the execution of penalties against high - level sexual offenders, including monitoring and other monitoring measures. Step 6 refers to the development of targeted intervention in young bacteria and treatment options for this group, including with the cooperation of the justice system and child protection authorities. Team 7 speaks of the development of the Children's House's activities as a multidisciplinary centre for child abuse, especially for the reporting and professional treatment of children up to 18 years of age. While children are children, they should be helped when they are 18 not 15 or 16. Family treatment, where any kind of violence has been used, will be available at the Children's House. Team 8 speaks of active teamwork performed by child - welfare committees, police, and health professionals throughout the country for any kind of child abuse. An experiment like this has been made. In part, teamwork was active in Southnes a few years ago. I am told that the Hafnarfjörður is taking such a step. Children's protection, police, and health care are very important to talk to each other about child's affairs and to help each other. Team 9 is eventually referred to as setting up a central monitoring system to ensure immediate action if a child is suspected of being violent. This will be the case, for example. Collecting information at the same site from clinics, schools, and police and keeping children out of the country to avoid measures to protect them. This is a very important point, which means that a system will have to be created that will enable a set up when a suspect is suspected and that action will immediately be taken. Personal protection sent in a review of this synopsis and said that there was nothing in it to do with it or that she needed to make comments. I interpret it so that it's okay to create a system like this, and then we should, of course, do it. Wll's. and the last chapter speaks of action in behalf of immigrants'children. There is talk of training and reception in schools and employment worlds and that society will all stand together in a fight against prejudice against minorities, with a special plan of action. What I especially want to mention is that schools have specific roles, and many schools do very well. However, the failure of children of foreign origin from high school has been extremely unacceptable, and high school has to deal with this. But since I think we're living in very palaces, when we meet kids running. Here are 13 suggestions for the children of immigrants and No. 12 is: When children and families are welcomed in search of international protection, children will be assured of special interest care and their rights, including the following: for education and health care and for playing, getting information about your position, and affecting your own life. The proposal is: The government will make sure that children are never placed in dangerous situations and that the decision for deportation and the granting of a relic will be taken into account as best for children. President. I've hit a big one. Of course, I haven't made every suggestion, which is 49, but it's easy to read in a paper all over the chapters. As I said before, the second best thing happened. I've been at the council for a decade, and I know that such an elaborate Senate proposal doesn't go through the council. The majority would like to have their fingerprints on the case, and it's all right if this government is absolutely certain that this government will handle children's affairs, especially vulnerable groups, and not only economic and social, and take care of the violence, etc., but children who are neglected must be watched as well. The worst thing about parenting that has most of the side effects is neglect, of course the most devastating violence, which I'm talking about the daily lives of children. I hope the government accepts the proposal and makes it real, not for the United States but for the children of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Adolescent Oddný A G. Harðardóttir for a fine speech and thank her for making the suggestion, and thus for its members, the members of the United States. My answer here is primarily in order to express thanks to the senators who are present, but at the same time, I want to assure them. A senator for my position. When this proposal is addressed, which I firmly expect to be carried out by the Senate Committee, the members of the committee will be treated with the members of the committee, and the senator would be finely tore. Much is already being done in the work of the Parliamentary Committee and their subgroups. I hope that we have managed to complete the work involved in the affairs mentioned by the senator to strengthen the position of children in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u46	Mr. President. It's good to hear, and I wish the big commission all the best. I've been watching the work of this committee, and there's some of the proposal we've been working on here. There are also some factors that have not been exposed to the committee. I trust each other. A senator to follow this matter closely on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u47	A respectable president. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson answers us. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter earlier. I also say: Thank you so much for this well-behaved proposal. It's a lot of work, and it's in 49 teams like a whale. paritaprevir Oddný was a G. Harðardóttir who told us earlier, and I've read. It's an ambitious task. I'm so lucky to be in this Senate Committee on Children's issues as high as I can. Department of Social Affairs ordered in the days, and it's all about. We've been good. It's a lot of work, and I can be happy. paritaprevir Adolescent G. Harðardóttir daughter, saying that there's a lot of ambition and tremendous solidarity to put our children's arms around us as best we can. That doesn't change the fact that I would have wanted to see a little more. It has been observed that in Iceland about 10 to 15 percent of children live in poverty. This was shown in a report published on February 28th by Sir Kolbeinn Stefánsson. In fact, it is heavier than tears to stand in that situation in 2019 C.E., with the children's covenant in force since January 2013, he is now well over six years old. It is not just that we are taking away our children, many of them, young ones, the joy of sharing in social activities with other children, of sharing in their inborn abilities, whether in the fields of achievement, music, or anyone else - no, they have to sit at home because they are too poor, it is too expensive to participate in the so - called welfare society we live in today. I don't think it's a good idea if you have to say this here at the High Council today. It's kind of amazing, but it's still true. The children's covenant has been in effect here, was legalized over six years ago, and we are still dealing with illusions, where children are actually forbidden to associate with both parents. Honorable President, that's indistinct. We're here with this Senate Committee, and I think it's all voluntary. We've really come together, got people from all over the community involved in children's affairs. I'm going to allow myself to be optimistic, moderate optimistic, though. They don't need the will, but they're somehow -- I don't get it. I've never understood it, maybe I'm not as much a politician as a man should be, in view of being an elected representative at the Allied Council of Iceland. I can't understand why government, more things, and government opposition cannot come together for good things that really concern the welfare of the people of the country. And now we're talking about our children. I can't understand why in the world should not be put around really well and well done with the suggestions for change, though at best. A government hasn't had an idea flight to bring it out by itself. I say, if any thing be sufficient, and the root of all evil is poverty in this land. The root of all evil in society is poverty. It's not supposed to happen. Why not start on the foundation and start stamping out the poverty of these children and allowing them to participate in society? Second, it is possible for them to associate with both parents. Third, when someone is being taken into the situation of children who are struggling in their parents'homes, they are left in the system for up to two years without having their release, what to do. It's a disregard for them that they're just part of a programme, a system - and we're talking about little people who need our help first and lastly. It has been found that even the child is spending a long time in the system saying: "Yes, social, and the child is not planning to take it back. ' Since all contact with the parent has been lost, it is best not to associate fully with that parent. What kind of society is this in which we live? It is strange to stand here, be elected agents - and the people enter the booth in good faith that they are choosing rulers who care for their interests. We're the ones who put the rules. It's all going on here at the High Council. We also have everything to do when it comes to fostering the smallest of our brothers and sisters and putting our arms around our children, even though we have kept the children's covenant in force for over six years. It is worth much more than that, for all those elected at the National Assembly of Iceland, to put their arms around the 49 troops laid down by the Continental Council to improve the status of children. I don't care where good things come from, and I don't care if it's considered strange that you're crossing some sort of class lines. I don't care if I'm not a politician. I just want fairness, justice, and ideals in these high sales here, and first and last, that we try to treat the people who put us in the position we are in here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u48	A respectable president. The finest proposal and very good thing that these issues are being done. However, there are other steps we can take to strengthen the position of young people. For the council there are quite a number of suggestions in this regard. At first, there is a bill. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's report of bringing an election age to 16 who did not complete the last assembly, ended somewhere in the middle of 3. Um, which is very remarkable. Now the case is on a committee. The exact same matter had been settled from the committee of last council, and I don't quite understand why the matter has not yet come back to the council so that we could at least finish it this time, not leave it in the middle of the 3rd Circle. This is one thing that the General could do now to improve the lives of young people. Another is a concierge proposal for the Council on a third optional accounting with the United Nations Children's Covenant. That's a matter of specifying a way of communication and deduction for children. This book enables children and their representatives to appeal special matters to the United Nations Child Rights Committee - the same child - rights committee that we are very proud to have represented, on some basis. Yet, we are not ready to accept that young people in Iceland can send their case to this committee we represent. What kind of bullshit is that, topv. President? Again: There are some things we can do. There is yet one thing that leads to the council that is a synopsis proposal for improved society administration. It is not pleasant to see the need to wait for the official in the processing of these cases. That's what that's all about. That there is good management, so that a waiting period in these delicate matters, after the government does what is right and good to protect the right children, is intolerable. It is annoying that there is an unnecessary waiting period there. More important, the protests that are here outside the General Assembly Hall Hall Hall every Friday and that have been for the past few weeks, where children and young people come and encourage us to consider what I think will strengthen the position of children and young ones to the future - that the earth we live on is being returned in an adequate condition to the next generation. We need to listen to these protests. We need to listen to these voices, and we need to do something. Yes, there are several billion in the next five years in a financial program for climate change. The effectiveness of this strategy is very unclear. It is very unclear if there is a suitable cost for action. The situation is very vague, and this is the time in which various countries around the world are declaring of the situation of climate crisis because of the precise protests taking place around the world. Because people there are listening. This is where we refer to the government to allow it to continue the current job instead of finishing at least the issues before the council. Instead of listening and responding to the warnings of the future generation, we are sent by members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u49	Mr. President. We could also have agreed to this proposal. I want to ask you why. Because he brings up a few cases, some of them are listed in this big suggestion because it is part of a large whole, whether he is concerned with making timed and financed programs that take the big picture and embrace the position of children and cooperation between administrative levels, etc., especially with children in a weak position. Has a what? A senator's objection to such a plan is being developed, or does he prefer that we take one thing and then see up with the big picture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u50	A respectable president. So I witness in the ad that was with children in the lead role: both better. This time - set schedule, financed plan, it's just a financial plan, and it's not to be found in it, unfortunately. The problem that is put up with this proposal is exactly a problem that could be stepped up in a financial program by time taken, with capital support. Of course, it is very nice, as with a communication plan and a transport plan and so on, to have a special strategy that is more overemphasic and is more accurate and accurate each action itself, and perhaps for an additional period of time, as suggested. Of course, that is part of a financial program. I have no objection to such policies as this, timed, operational, profit-making, profit-making, and financial gain. Besides, I have no objection to the fact that we do run out of subjects that have even made it to the 3rd. and, for some reason, are still confined to a committee during this assembly, despite almost the end of the last assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u51	Mr. President. The budget is set for policy, where money needs to be hung on a legal level, and of course it would have to be done with all issues and major policies. The United Nations Child Welfare Committee has made comments on the implementation of the European Convention, and in 2012 the following package is due. A comment has been made that there is no timetable for a child's affairs in Iceland, that the organization and the transporters and policy are not sufficiently fixed and that it needs to be fixed and done. It is in the spirit that this council proposal was proposed by members of the United States Congress, and it is in the spirit that I hope that we will succeed in working with children's affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u52	A respectable president. This rhymes very well with a third optional accounting with the children's covenant because we already receive tips from a child - care committee. We also receive indications from a comparable committee in the United Nations on economic, social, and cultural rights, which is also a conquistador proposal for the council and on the committee, and cannot be named because some do not want it out of the committee, etc. These are listed by the United Nations organization who gives us tips, but we refuse to introduce the books so that Icelandic citizens can send tips to the committees. The only thing that happens is that we get tips from the committees that are already being given. That we cannot complete both the economic, social, and cultural rights and, much less, the third optional accounting with the United Nations Children's Covenant on the Child Court to which we represent. Although we have a member of the Committee, we cannot complete the right to give our citizens the right to present a case to her. This is the core, I think, in the problem we face in strengthening the position of children and young people in Iceland. We even deny our own citizens the rights we boast to be members of the committee. I'm sorry, but I think it's a bit hypocritical not to be able to finish this decently and give people the rights we already do. We are already given tips from these committees, but we do not allow our own citizens and children and young people to approach them. This suggestion is definitely needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u53	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee to conduct an off-limit proposal for the resolution of the survival of the Landsaving fleet, of the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by Ásgrímur L. Ásgrímsson from Iceland's State Hall and Jón Svanberg Hjartarson of the Landsbourg Society of Accidents. The committee received reviews from the Republic of Iceland's Haflociation of small-boat owners, the partnerships of the marine outposts, the European Union of Iceland and the Landsaving Society. The proposal suggests that the government will be committed to renewing the larger rescue ships of the Landsaving Society with financial contributions from a government fund of up to 100 million. K. each year for the next ten years. The accident - defense union of Landsbourg will be responsible for the operation of the ships in a manner comparable to what it is now. Commentors agreed with the proposal and considered improvements in the company's shipping fleet necessary and long overdue. The commission stated that most of the relief ships of the Society are between 30 and 40 years old, 13 of which number. They are maintenance, and in fact, a child of their own time. Clearly, in the next five years, half of the fleet will need to be replaced. Then all ships must be replaced within ten years. At a meeting of the Committee, it was also noted that the ships carried out 50 calls last year, of which 29 were called in an emergency situation. In the opinion of the Committee, the importance of the ships'saving of the sea is clear, and it is crucial that ships meet modern standards, including those of the Committee. by speed of progress, to ensure minimal duration of action upon search and rescue. In view of recent years, significant progress has been made in design and design of ships, and the committee considers it necessary for ships for survival not to remain behind but to benefit from this trend. The overall cost of the latest fleet is estimated at approximately 2 billion dollars. and it is clear that such an investment will not be made with self - resources alone. The Commission agrees with the opinion of the movers that it is reasonable for the State to come to the funding of the project, i.e. up to half of its cost, but it is clear that the expenses of the money will be considerable. Since the final cost of the project has not been identified and the share of the government has not yet been identified, the Commission feels that the matter will be further developed, organized, and cooperated with the DMP of Landsbourg. In view of large amounts of money, the Committee stresses the need for careful action and appropriate rules and viewpoints, such as the availability and practical use of public funds, in addition to the implementation of the project. The matter is relevant to the work of several schemes, including the Department of Transport and Division, Justice and the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. In the opinion of the Committee, it is desirable that the prime minister, who has a co-ordination and co-ordination role in cooperation with recruitment, will consider the matter and ensure this urgent progress and funding for the entire population. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the synopsis of the Convention will be referred to the government. Vilhjálmur Árnason, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfóttir and Bergþór Ólason were absent at the hearing but signed in accordance with 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with this. Under it is written by Jón Gunnarsson, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Bergþór Ólason, Hanna Friðriksson Fridursson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Lineika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Bjöynfjörnótsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. A respectable president. This is a very important matter. It's the biggest investment project the D.A.'s ever done in the 90-year history of the club. Work on preparation is fine, and as indicated in a committee list, it is estimated that the cost is about 2 billion. It is too much for society to handle such an investment on its own. There are not many words that need to be spoken of, Mr. Honorable President, how efficient an organization is in our community when it comes to the search and survival and status of rescues. The accident - defense society of Landsbourg, with all its powerful volunteers, plays a key role and serves as the basis for all the national public defenses. Of course, few people in a large country have an abundance of benefits from the construction, training, and investment of equipment associated with this work. The government has placed its share on the scales. We're dropping equipment and equipment delivery fees for the rescue forces. They have the strength from a government fund to carry out their missions, but in other respects, the rescue forces finance their own operations. Good manners in this field are noteworthy. It doesn't matter whether there is international or international rescue work. There are few countries that are equally powerful and broad when it comes to searching and saving as we Icelanders do, and somehow it is interwoven with the national soul how this has been built up. This powerful work places great place in the community, and we are indebted to the people who at any given time exert themselves in this self - sacrificing work. We owe our debt to our employers who participate in this work by letting people work in a time of need without losing their salary. Thus, this is the common effort of all the people of the country, the individuals in this business, the companies with which the people work, and the government. This is a very important resurgence of the old society's rescue fleet. These ships were recycled in the years following 2000, with larger rescue ships increasing around the country, now numbering 13. They play a very important role in closely cooperating with the National Guard and its administrative center. These are often the only receivers in many parts of the country who face a crisis at sea and respond along with nearby ships and boats. The requirements have changed over the years, and the need has changed, and they can be connected in part to the changing patterns in the community and the growing number of tourists. More and more, the society's rescue ships and their crews need to respond in hospital transports to isolated places in the country. I would like to mention, to make Eastern and West, and to increase in frequency, and then the pace is more important than perhaps before, as is the situation on board for the ships'crews. This will not be the task of picking up the bike. Our neighbors, fellow workers at this site, partners of the Landsaf in Europe, have for decades and even longer developed cooperation in this field. Some shipyards exist that have specialized themselves on ships for marine life, comparable to those of the Landsbourg Society. The project is now being evaluated and reported, but there are some ways to which size it will be, not far from the amount mentioned here. A single mind was on the committee taking care of the matter, and I'm expecting a monopoly on this important matter. I've been through this with the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A secretary of finance, and he finds no more than the government's goodwill to participate in this, in harmony with the will presented in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u54	Mr. President. I'm recommending the Committee's Committee on bill confirmation of budget 2017. For years a state bill was declared by the General by the Council in an indirect manner, with a agreed bill on the final budget, which was granted the authority to transport demand and the excess expenditures between year and year for individual Member States. The State Account Act accepts the role of the final financial law with a recent government law. With the new law, the fundamental change in the transfer of budgets from year to year will be based on the topic fields and the topic classes of budgets rather than on individual Member States. One of the goals of the new law on public finances was to ensure that the government account remained comparable to financial laws. In fact, the comparison is much more complex than it used to be because of Article 1. budgets and financial programmes are based on an international economic standard called GFS standard, but not on international accounting standards, IPSAS, such as the government bill. The GFS standard is used by economic clinics around the world to facilitate a comparison of government management. The GFS core focus is to assess the economic impact of public management while the IPSAS standards focus on management and economic status. This first bill on validation is requested not only for sources but also attention to accounts related to the establishment of the A State Fund as planned at the beginning of 2017. With the founding budget of January 1, 2017, there will be more extensive changes in the balance of the state budget than ever before. Today, permanent financial assets are now decried in accordance with shelf-life, instead of culminating a year's pay. Also, the properties of the state's funds in associates are assessed by the shared method, i.e. The State has its share in their own money. There are also other changes that weigh less, such as that debt due to holiday bonds of state workers is added to the balance of accounts and legalized in the right year. Real estate items are evaluated at 1,847 billion dollars. At the beginning of 2017 and 1,745 billion. at the end of the year. Rollback items are estimated at 497 billion dollars. At the beginning of the year, and 412 billion dollars. at the end of 2017. That's a total of 2,345 billion. At the beginning of the year, however, a comparison was made that a year earlier, a total of property was rated at 1,141 billion. according to the current accounting guidelines. As a result, the financial side of the bill is increasing by 1,204 billion dollars. Only for changing accounting rules. Of these, permanent funds are 816 billion. and estimates of stock property are rising by 372 billion dollars. due to altered assessments. Since financial assets have not been attributed until now, the financial balance of the state's funds has been negative. It was negative about 694 billion times. By the end of 2016, but with a change of accounts, it is positive about 474 billion. in the started budget of 2017. The difference is 1,168 billion k. and, in comparison, it's 35% higher than all the expenses of the A-part of the state budget in the current year. There will be significant changes in account by the introduction of international accounting standards, but they weigh considerably less than changes in the financial balance of the state's budget. The greatest concern is that now the shock of holiday commitment is made to pay for the first time. Stocks are an asset instead of reimbursed, and it is therefore requested by the General Document to transfer between management and investment initiatives, and also access to income taxation in favor of the year's releases. Such sources should normally be found in the budget of each year, but since it is now available for the first time, it is requested after the year has passed. If the warrant is not granted, the demurrection of the state will be reduced to the rate of the year's payoffs. Recalculation will include explanations on the introduction of the global accounting standards and the establishment of the financial account at the beginning of the year. There is a detailed review of the implementation program, where a three - year scheme is expected to take full advantage of its standards. Therefore, it will only be by the accounts of the 2019 C.E. that the accounts will be fully in accordance with the IPSAS. Explain what parts of the standards have been introduced and what will be accomplished. Among the missing are the comparisons of the previous year, as well as the missing collections for the entire state funds. For this reason, a very detailed article is presented in an explanation of two persons in a balance account. Government accountants subscribe to the bill without giving any particular opinion as to whether it will give a clear picture of the growth and economy of the state's funds. Referring to the lack of relevant information to base an opinion and therefore cannot be decided whether the potential factors are large enough to influence the assessment of the results of the account. Therefore, a public review cannot draw out in its signature tips or comments because of the financial impact of the unfinished through the implementation of IPSAS, nor can it determine whether there are other relevant information in the accounts of the State. Nevertheless, the General Accounting Council proposes that the bill be confirmed by the Council. Apart from the validation regulations, there are four branches of the bill. A financial committee feels that for the future it is unnecessary to specifically mention and apply information that leads directly to the introduction of international accounting standards. Under these conditions, e.g. Permission to import orlabl due bonds, as 1st. ., authority to bring up the property of your associates according to your share method, also in 1st. Article 2 of the Council of the European Court of Auditors, published by the European Court of Auditors, published by the European Court of Auditors. .. and authority to transport 7.3 billion dollars. Expenditure to 2018, as noted in Article 4. The account - based changes now appear for the first time, so the committee believes that it is not to be mentioned specifically in the bill, but it points out that from now on the bill may be simpler, since the bill is primarily validating the state accounts and looking for permission to cancel the year's finals that are not intended to move to the next year. The bill also requests state-of-the-art sources to offset the effects of holiday commitments and the retrieving of permanent funds, but on official financial legislation, it is not expected that additional documents will be obtained in the bill as such. Instead, it would have been better for the source to have been obtained in the bill for financial aid in 2017. This was not done because it was not yet available for the introduction of an accounting standard. The Commission does not comment on this arrangement now, but it believes that there will be no bills on the bill to confirm government accounts but only in each year's budget and budgets. The Commission called for additional information from the Ministry on both international accounts and detailed violations of budget transfers and expenses between years. So the committee called for explanations of the different methods of reconstitution and the comparison of the total wealth compared to the GFS standard. It turns out that the Office of Economics is not quite comparable to the financial and economic structure of the Ministry. After completion of the Ministry's diagnostic work with a total of nine adjustments between standards, the conclusion is that the positive result of a state bill, on an IPSAS base, would be 39.1 billion dollars. Also positive is about 45.6 billion. The GFS standard. The budget estimated $24.7 billion. leftover. Both income and expenditure proved to be higher than expected in budgets, the income about 74.5 billion. and cost of 53.6 billion. Much of this can be attributed to the failure of the GFS Office to the terms of budgetary legislation. The committee suggests that an overview showing both standards and explanations of their differences will continue to be part of an explanation for government accounts. However, the contribution is based on the IPSAS database, but the addition of a GFS base is necessary to meet the budget and financial programmes. The committee also called for a thorough disunition of the Package II package showing the preparation of the year's final case state. It was requested to publish disunition for individual Member States. A consideration of the financial situation suggested for years of falling indicates that corrosion is almost comparable to what was practiced in final financial law, despite the development of new laws. Depending on the problem, it was called for explanations from recruitment due to the point where a decline status is proposed, whether positive or negative, if the abnormality was more than 4% of the budget. A total of 78 projects were included in the accompanying budget, which fell into this definition. The number and extent of abnormalities indicate that in many cases it is necessary to improve the projection in order to reduce annual variations. In older sheep's nests, it was permitted to store ruined funds from year to year and at the same time allowed to withdraw debt from year to year's budgets. With a 30 st. a law on public finances is strongly stated on spending beyond the reach of sources where it is stated to be withdrawn from next year's budget. As in the past, it is permitted to move lost sources to the next year. In fact, there are exceptions in moving positions between years, such as contributions to social security, pension commitments, and state funds. A financial committee feels that the number of joints in which a year - long situation is cut down should be determined to reduce the number of terms used previously by the final financial law. For example, most of the resources involved in health insurance can be controlled within the year by changes in regulations and other instruments of contract management. The same is true of the staff, such as legal expenses for public affairs. However, because of the longitude that has passed since the end of 2017, changes in plans have not been made. The committee points out that according to the 67th grade. the legislation on official financial matters shall be in accordance with the Regulation for the transfer of funds from year to year. The Regulation has not yet been published, despite the fact that some year ago the financial committee and the rest of the management committees gave it information about how it was published. The rules need to be followed by a list of Member States and projects in which final sites are planned. It is required that this should be settled as soon as possible and before the validation of the State bill for 2018. The committee has recently studied the review report of the 2017 State Review Office and has subsequently requested written answers to a number of questions that arose as a result of reading it. The Agency has already given detailed answers, including the following: Find explanations for the unrecognised state account as well as for a number of other opinions regarding the introduction of international accounting standards. The Commission will also follow up the report and aim to explain further data collection and work due to the review of state accounts in a special report to the council. The Commission will now stress that the review report is provided together with the bill on the confirmation of the state bill in order to discuss these two issues of the same injury in time. A respectable president. I'm not here running the main tips of the Commission published in our committee list. Under the headings of each legal committee, representatives of the branch office. There was also an audience officer for Þorsteinn Víglundsson. Sæland Gorand is writing in advance. I just want to end up as an entitlement, a respectable president, to mention in this relationship and at this breakthrough we are about to confirm the administrative account of 2017, that the budget of that year was placed under unprecedented conditions that I do not follow in this regard. In general, though, the results of the budget and money bill are pleasant, especially in the light of the way it all worked out. I call back to my attention the indications and explanations of two comments on page 26 in the balance of the bill, which includes the status of various manufacturers and the accessories provided. However, after an investigation by the Committee, we came to the conclusion that the original process of induction was in itself being carried out. It is proper to note specifically that Iceland is one of the countries leading up to implementing such standards, and Iceland is actually one of the few countries that are walking this path for some time. As we have discussed, Iceland is almost one state that plans to implement standards without exception. Other countries that are dealing with the same project have had to, and they will need exceptions to cover their assignments. All of this means, in effect, that there will be a change in information, especially in government property. Other countries all know very little about the value of their possessions, e.g. road systems or such structures. Here we proselytize the Kingdom's holdings by means of the methods and standards it has been set, perhaps showing a much clearer position in the financial status of the state than we have previously achieved. It is also appropriate to state, as indicated in the category of members of the committee. The financier, for the induction of three years. That is why, a more dignified president, of the next year's annual account, or the state's stock balance, would be comparable between 2017 and 2018, and probably not even between 2018 and 2018, because we are only on the initial steps to deal with this major and massive project. Since there are other aspects of this, we could discuss how beneficial it is to use such standards and this difference between the two standards we are most working on. We may keep this discussion to ourselves. However, the decision to make a change to the bill is all made by the legislature committee and suggests that the Council accepts it as it was presented. But again, I repeat that there will be continued activity at the scene. The legal committee on a number of factors related to processing on the judgment of the State bill by 2017, as well as the indications in our committees, and the strong recommendations we make to the Commission on the release of the next annual bill and then how we will develop comparable matters in the next few years. At the end of this matter, it may be that it is unnecessaryly similar to what we previously knew in the case of the Generals and that it was entitled final financial law. It is certainly not intended to indicate a future state account. But this is how all good roads begin. There must be someplace to go. Finally, I would like to reiterate that a financial committee suggested that the General approval of the bill be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u55	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss the confirmation of the 2017 state bill, the legal bill, and the committee's opinion. The financier's as good as any. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was very careful here in his background. I want to thank you. A senator for that review. In itself, it is not much to add, for it went wrong. A senator is very well aware of the main points of opinion and of the points presented by the committee at the end of the committee. A major change in accounts has indeed been made, and to some extent it is a revolution from what has been done. There are only a small number of countries that have fully introduced international accounting standards, as Iceland is doing. The special status of the account is now that it is the first year of the three years in which this process applies. These international accounts are being introduced. This is the case in 1 mg. 1st par. The bill assumed that the founding budget of the A State Fund, January 1, 2017, will be verified. As in fact, it appears in parr. This is in line with the 58th grade. a law on public financial matters, which states that a minister should submit a bill at the General Assembly to confirm a financial account. That's the situation. Therefore, the account is not comparable to the previous year or the next two years until the planned induction is completed, so the final stock balance of January 1, 2017 is in its final form. The greatest change, and the most significant, is that the first time in the account is worth anything other than financial assets. To date, investments in permanent business funds have been fully reimbursed, and as a result, such assets, such as property, land, land, property, machines and equipment, have not been shown in economic accounts but are now funded for the first time and are assessed in an updated, planned, written cost. As noted, the government accountants study the account without any opinion. A government accountant will pick that route, and he will well explain that visa to the Generals in a government account, which includes some of them. until the regulations of 52rd. Public financial legislation stipulates that the state bill should be set up in accordance with international accounting centres aimed at the management base, or the IPSAS. That's the acronym, a respectable president, for; ▪ International Public Public Focalation Standards (U.S.). It is assumed that it will take several years to develop the changes here and can be, when it is read by the state account, to see that they are complex and complex and thus may be allowed up to three years in this process - and is permitted. There is a law in these terms that it can take time for the full implementation of new accounting regulations to be completed. As a result, a government accountant does not express his opinion on the account. In response to a government accountant's review to the Committee on Whether the General shall be able to confirm a financial bill without a warning, the President may state: The signing of a government accountant means that it is not possible to evaluate whether the financial bill will provide a clear picture of business and financial status and financial development of a state fund in accordance with the rules of accounting. It is under government law. In this context, it is referred to the introduction of new accounting rules and therefore cannot be estimated from the effects of partial implementation of the IPSAS standards only. In view of a government accountant's opinion, the General Assembly can confirm a bill as it is proposed to the review of a state accountant's review report and to the grounds for the introduction of new accounting regulations. This is shown in the answer of a government accountant to questions the committee sent to a state accountant after work through a report by a state accountant. In contrast, when the establishment is completed with the 2019 federal account, the real possession of the state is revealed for the first time. As a result, it is possible to evaluate whether maintenance of possessions is adequate and is a very important entry into the internal investment discussion, to form. Thus, the current state account will provide much more information than has been available so far. As a result, investment decisions are to be made on a better basis than before. It is, in fact, there. Referred to experience abroad from, like, broke. A prominent speaker came in his business. Clearly, the structure of the State becomes more complex than has been so far, and to achieve a financial advantage, it is necessary to show it also by a so - called economy, GFS. By permission of the president, GFS will be exported: 'Counsel Finance Statistics.' In fact, the committee requires that this comparison be found in each year's accounts. It is an ongoing challenge to obtain both a clear and meaningful account, but it is also to make the presentation simple and readily available for the general reader to understand and to be able to read changes between years of age. Some may ask, " Why is it that the Council is confirming a state account beyond the legal obligation outlined in 58 C.E.? ' a law on government finance, where it is stated that the Minister should submit a bill to the Council to confirm state accounts, such as the bill we agree with here. Then the bill is changing the budgets of causes of climate change and litigation, and thus it is unavoidable to come upon the council to confirm the changes, not only expenses and income, but and the changes in the sources contained in the bill, and that such changes will always be made in the bill's prime for confirmation where, after events, status, or transfers between years, and whether these require changes in initial budgets. Such changes cannot occur without the help of the Generals. It is stated in a committee program that leads to depression. The budget intends to follow up a state accountant report further. The committee has already sent a detailed questionnaire and has received answers and intends to continue working with this feature. I even went. the following questions will be considered in the next issue of this magazine. The committee has reason to go to further collections of data and to further explain this work later. More important, because we are in a process of induction at present, we feel that it is only natural that the review and the state accountant's report should fall together in time. I just want to give you a tip. Four who appear at the board at the end of a committee opinion. I'm not going to keep this any further at this time, a respectable president, and particularly thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, the chairman of the case, for a thorough review of the indications that the committee had and the processing of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u56	A respectable president. Just briefly about this induction process that we're in - something we shouldn't be in because the law is what it is. There are a number of exceptions from when to start publishing annual reports and such matters on public financial matters, which delay when the other is to be done and this is to be done. But there are very little questions about when we should finish some other things. In fact, we're past all those dates. In effect, we are to have put behind us all the dates that might be understood as an induction process. Yes, this is for 2017, so at the time, there were certainly some dates in value for the induction process, but others were not. After all, like a dog. A senator said, is the most interesting of all. I feel like he's missing. There were indications that he must be guided on the road. At the same time, then, we have a signature of a Kingdom Accounting, which says that we do not expect to sign a government account for the next two years, i.e. 2018 and 2019. I complained a little bit about government Accounting not bringing a list of what was missing. It would be possible to improve that precisely so, so it would be more likely to be presented with a clear analysis and an opinion from the State Accounting. Thus, there is a conflict between the completion of the Ministry's induction period and the readyness of the induction process and the implementation of a State Reconclusion of itself, that it could review state accounts according to the new law correctly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A question asked by Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, perhaps even more speculation we have been going through on the committee. All of them, I'd just like to say, normal and all of them are the normal questions we've been through and we've been contacted by the Ministry and State accountant. And maybe that's why, despite that. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the Committee, was very careful with the work of the Committee, and there might be no reason to follow it in a special talk, I thought that it was a reason to come up and discuss it as an induction process. I thought why. There's a senator standing in front of what might be a little tough on this. It's so long past; first of all, we're talking about at such a time in 2017, the economics; and then there's some of the IPSAS centres that assume it'll ever take, up to three years. The three years have passed. We're still watching a later shift in time. I can only agree with what. Senator. We had a detailed questionnaire to review the report, which is very illuminating, perhaps beyond the conclusions in the account itself, on this issue, for of course this question of visas without recognition, which, of course, hangs only on that, in this process. That is why I saw reason to review it in detail, without perhaps being able to answer the questions directly. A senator rightly, I'd like to say, came here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u58	A respectable president. It is a natural Parliament that agrees with these laws and has certain expectations for how the process should work after all. It has certainly been tried to communicate, certainly the Ministry and the State Reconsistencies have come to the Committee, how it is best to pass the laws on public finances, to both the council and to other members, to the professionals and to the citizens of the country. At the same time, these GFS and IPSAS standards and so on are relatively illiterate for everyone. There are technical transfers to the budget, which will surely benefit greatly from subsidies here and there. I'm not really in this part of the ton of evidence, but at least I appreciate it. But then I feel that this earlier presentation is definitely missing. It can be done a bit more dramatic, but just so it's more legible. That there is a core, from financial policy in budget and budgets, in the Minister's annual report, and now in the financial account, when we finish it. That it is accessible to transparency, which is part of the basic factors. That it is honored when working on the budget. Because we're supposed to be agreeing and having the funds, and we need to be able to understand what we're going to agree to contribute to. After all, it's just very inaccessible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for his answer, and for his speculations and concerns - and rightly so. Perhaps that was why I saw the reason to come here for a talk, because, of course, it is at the same time important. It's a legal committee and for another reason. Senators. Because this means verifying the bill of state. Someone may ask: " Why is the General Confirming of a bill? I went over it, and I hooked it up. So it must inevitably be done by Generalis. That's how it works - I'll say it with a bang. A senator, and in my memory, with the clearness for the future - is the very reason that the committee as a whole puts out tips here, in the first place: No. two, that further, a special statement needs to be fully elucidated according to the state's quality according to whether the GFS standard or the IPSAS standard should follow the state bill. We agree on that. The third point is that there is only one reason why a financial bill is signed without the opinion of a government accountant. It is unfortunate that this will continue despite the introduction of IPSAS until the account year 2019. We are, in effect, saying: " Well, there are some laws that allow this to take some time, but we don't want anything to happen to such an appeal in the past year. ' Fourth, when a bill is submitted by a bill of state, a review report has to be passed to the General Assembly. So we can take these matters at the same time, and all of this is clear. Above all, though, there will be a bill for the future in that the public reader can benefit and see a clear picture of the financial resources of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u60	Mr. President. This has been a helpful discussion. Thank you. Haraldur's spokesman Benediktsson's son for the tour. Not only have we observed the shape of these laws since our arrival at the council but we have to say that this has not been an unwarranted birth, and we are not necessarily at peace with gangs, productions, or anything that is involved in public financial law. There are still a lot of things we need to fix so that things will eventually be as we would like them to be. State account is part of that job. I've found that there was more to it than you expected when you were working on the lyrics to the law and we were going through it, as it were, at a meeting of a government accountant with a financial committee. It is often that when you read text on paper, things may work out, but when they do, it can be complicated. It has been so. In this case, a tremendous change has been made. As mentioned above, standards are being introduced without exception, and the small population of Iceland is going to stand very close. Though we are small, we do not have to limit all our possessions, whether they are roads, possessions, or lands or what they are now. Once we've learned a lot of lessons, we've got to face the problems we've come across. The process with which we were in finals was also criticized because we are always talking about something that has long passed, and that was the case with the final financial law. One thing that needs to be done is, of course, that there is a much sooner to be seen than in due time. It is shocking to be working with a tax account before 2017 when we are in the middle of 2019. In itself, there is little that we do with it, just as was actually the final financial law. State account is accepting this role. As presented here by the chairman of a legal committee, this case is a matter of transporting funds from year to year in topic areas and on topic groups, not to each member. The first time in which it is closer to an enterprise development and that the funds are now attributed and written in accordance with extension time, as it is done in companies, instead of being fully reassigned, is a very big change and something that takes time, the nature of the case. The options are to be acquired, and this bill asks for the Alduke's authorization to switch into business ventures and investments, and then deposit the year. This is what we're doing. I remember when we on the budget were listening to a talk about the IPSAS and GFS, a man got a little groggy and it's not unusual in itself, I remember we got a whole bunch of dolls about it. It was said that this should be better, more enlightened, and clearer, and we are always calling for it. We who have been doing this since the days of these laws, when they came into being, are just putting our arms around it, at least I feel like it's how it works. Of course, the comparison is hard, and it cannot be done in the right way. It has been discussed here that a government accountant does not rate his financial account or anything; rather, he does not give a specific opinion whether he makes a clear picture as is usual. Then I also feel that there is reason to mention it, as is said here in one sentence, that the National Reconnaissance suggests that the Communicator confirms the bill. I asked that question when they came to our meeting if they had signed up the old-fashioned way. It was. It would be nice to have both while the induction process goes through the way it was tore up and it would be in my opinion useful, but I also realize that it's a huge job and it was said at our meeting that then it would have drawn even further. That's not particularly good. Neither one's really good. Here we have this in front of us, and I like the tips of the committee, and the discussion on these matters has been very good. We have been united in what we have to do better because we all want it to be set out so that everyone understands and that the government account provides the best form at any given time. This has been a requirement that the committee has called for additional information, both from the Ministry and on these different methods of compensatory and comparison of total financial resources according to GFS standards because it was found that the Office's contribution is not quite comparable to the financial and economic contributions of the Bureau. Therefore, the committee, as this has been suggested, suggests that a summary of both standards and makes clear the distinctions made there, will continue to be submitted as soon as the account is calculated. So it is with the end of the year. We've been discussing the exact end point of the year through the final budget until now, i.e. this by falling down or not falling down, what can be taken with you and why, etc. We called for explanations, not whether the situation was positive or negative, but we only wanted to know if it was more than 4%, who has been the leading standard for many years. It turned out that, as we have seen, for at least these years I've been on a budget board, there's going to have to be a better plan in many places. I'm not gonna say it didn't work out that much. I feel like we've seen some changes in the conferences, institutions that the Ministry has followed since they've been made. I think it all works, though some things go slower than others, and you would like to see things go faster. This is one of the things that we on the committee need to keep following through. The number of joints that are dropped every year is reduced. This is to be so that the government agencies can assign their operations within the budget so that they are not exceeded. Of course, we've had trouble children for many years, including years. Health insurance, government expenses, and others that have been considerably higher. We're not talking about any nickels there. I hope it's better to be caught, and I've heard of the problem that the situation indicates at least that there's a better way of handling it. Of course, according to the 67th chapter of this relationship, it is not easy. a law on government finance, on the transfer of budgets from year to year, has long been published by regulations. We retrace this committee party that it will be done, and the Ministry must take it to heart. Unfortunately, there are too few who have below, I would like to say, to listen to what we have to do with the government's financial affairs here in the conference hall. I remember the first time I came in as a deputy, I was sitting here by myself with an ex-whisper. paritaprevir Ásbjörn Óttarsson. He was in a pitt, and I sat and listened, as the deputy senators often do, being diligent in sitting and listening. Actually, I was on a budget committee, but ever since, I have felt that I had little interest in paying attention to a talk in general about the financial affairs of the State. I don't have to extend this case much. The committee will follow the report and explain the answers we have been requesting, have received answers, and will no doubt ask for additional data. We will draw it together and return it to the council. I've also said that, and it's been questioned by others that we have to hold a work meeting or a conference, I don't know what we want to call it, a seminar or something like that, about the law. I'd like it to be next year. In that case, one government has made its policies and has twice produced financial programs, has actually provided three budgets, we have seen annual ministers' reports, starting to see patterns, and what is necessary for us to do better and what has been successful. This is something that we on a budget board need to participate in and the Ministry of finance that, of course, has taken care of this induction, as well as other members of Congress. We find that many members of the Parliament experience this so that the Council has been taken over by the new law, we have little advice, etc. Maybe then we'll have the next checkout to confirm it. Now that we've gone through this not just once but more than twice, we'd have to do our job well. On its own, working on a financial committee doesn't make me feel that it's enough, because it's not gonna be a very fishy conversation that comes up at work meetings or seminars, or what we would call it, and others will come to the table and tell us what it might be better to do. A respectable president. I thank the Commission for the cooperation and executive for this fine summary under which we are hoping we will have a shorter report next time, as is indicated here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u61	A respectable president. I have a comment on the legal process of public finances at all times. I think it's trying to live by the government law, but it doesn't work. Because you haven't started in the right place, i.e. in connection with the Ministry on To-do Lists, Priorit list, successful connection, and then all the way into financial or financial programmes. There's some obstacle there. At least I get the information that many institutions, perhaps not all but some, send their priority lists, which may even be expensive, but that information doesn't fit into financial plans. There are data that we members of the Parliament need to evaluate whether the funds provided in financial programmes will be sufficient for or not for the projects proposed, according to climate policy. We have no idea if the coin placed in it will be sufficient for the procedures proposed, as with many other factors. This will spread all the way into the financial account, when there is no need for the spirit of public finance laws, that the budget is successful. If that process stops somewhere, if the cost point falls out as well as a connection to the projects and the benefits to be derived from them, then there is no way to explain it in a financial programme, where it should begin. Also, it is not possible to account in the budget or in the annual reports of a minister and in terms of financial bills when closing the figure and saying: This was what had been completed. One of the problems that are clearly evident in the confirmation of the 2017 State account is the speed or lack of it. We're completing the custody of 2017 in the mid-19th year. It is absolutely necessary that the data, financial data that come from financial systems, be available much sooner. I don't buy comments that it's a huge job. This isn't supposed to be hand job. It's all in computer systems and the numbers should be run out by order. It seems that months are closed; quarters are closed. It goes too long until months, quarters, half years, or the year are closed conservatively, so that the finals can be replaced. This is something that should be completed within a month in each case. And how is that possible? Some may say it's not possible, but we have to get there. Maybe you can have half an allowance or something like that in the first place, where you need a few bills to or from the first installment, so that you can see the image just a little bit. Then, too, we will regret the passing of time, and when the final showdown comes, we will regret how much will take place. Where are the problems? What is involved in the process? Who are we waiting for? Thus, more than two years later or six months later, we would receive constant information about what is being done with the financial resources we agree to at the General Assembly. It's just a matter of time ago regarding the regulations on the transfer of funds. One of the key elements of the government law is the transfer of budgets from year to year, not to stop demolitions or funds at the end of the year, etc. but if the budget is plus or minus, certain measures by the minister to explain why the budget should be transferred to the next year, it will fall. It doesn't have to be a law to follow it, it just happens. If a budget is to be submitted automatically, it is not necessary to explain, it could only be referred to the Regulation. Otherwise, explain why money should be transferred to the next year. That's the law at the moment. A protocol could make a more comfortable process for it than it is until it is resolved to explain each entry. I can totally understand that there's a lot of work to be done, but if we demand the Ministry to abide by the law and it's such a huge job, we should be ready to do that. We can absolutely demand that the Ministry abide by the law by keeping a little rigid in saying, "No, you have to come up with an explanation according to the law. " If you don't want to explain, you need to put a general rule in Regulation. Until you have provided that Regulation, you will need to explain this team to each other. It is our responsibility, our initiative to stand up to the demands when it comes to this. That applies to the whole process, to me, to both the priorities of the list that I feel is all based on, an informed decision as to why any subject's costs it a lot; because here we have a priority list where each factor costs and the benefits of it are this and the good idea of going on projects, because the benefits are both financial and social. There would be other standards on which we would evaluate, based on grounds, etc. If we don't have this list, and if we don't have the cost number - which is not yet a part of the financial agenda we're working on - it's not yet a cost assessment of projects, we don't have the priority list on which all of it is based - it's going to ruin everything. The annual reports will be relatively useless. There a minister should recognize how government policy was successful, but if we do not know what government policy means or what the benefits are expected of government policy, we cannot say: We reached our goals. There are also goals and standards within the course, and we know exactly how inaccurate it is in many cases. The Ministry of Health bragged about the quality of the different medications and availability of drugs, but at the same time they passed all the standards, there are reports that people are not receiving medication. It's a lack of medicine. However, the criteria did not measure whether people were receiving medication. Rather, they determined how many drugs were published. It has nothing to do with whether people get the medicine or not. This is our challenge. These are the rules we set out to the Commission to follow. In my opinion, the Ministry and the institutions are a little attached to the old layer and maybe some senators too, because that's how we've been doing it for a long time. It's hard to freak out and change tradition, change how you've done this before. It's not likely, far from it. I believe that the council needs to stand up to the fact that we are going the right way in this, taking the course of public financial law, and putting ourselves and the problems under control. It's obvious to anyone who goes through financial plans, financial policies, annual reports, financial laws, etc. that there is no strict application of public financial laws and that are not really working in the spirit or to their overall goal. This is evident not only in the accounts now but also in the messages sent by the State Accounter for the next financial bills, he already knows that he cannot sign accounts because the introduction was not completed despite the fact that the law was clear. This moves us to do at least two things. One is to get cost estimates, to get priorities in the list, to get the cost - price analysis that financial advice has repeatedly encouraged us to work with. Number two is work speed, completion and closing months and quarters, and years earlier, that we are not getting 2017 in 2019. If we fix these two things, we are far closer to being able to conduct a normal financial operation. Then we are much closer to being able to set a course, for the final quarter of the year and the late years certainly have an impact on the course of the next year. The information cannot be summed up because it is missing in a future direction. There is a certain uncertainty, and it cannot be taken into account that things are not likely to go on course for the next year or for the next five years. If we don't finish the whole foundation and rely on the facts and conditions that are really there, but we don't know who, we can't work our policy as well as we want. I think these two things, to complete the priorities of the list, that it will come in the next financial programme, and to work that the Ministry and the institutions can close their books faster, would change enormously, and would be a complete key to our finally getting a bill of state that we can easily sign and understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u62	Mr. President. I would like to recommend an article on a bill about a change in public shopping law, No. 120/2016 (provided purchase, chain responsibility, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s After the January 21st issue was referred to, the committee discussed the matter. It was arranged at seven meetings, and all the clients came to a meeting of the Committee. The bill aims to ensure a better degree than any public shopping programme has been established to support government policy and to prevent conflict between EEA rights and national rules in their interpretations. The objective of the seminary is also to contribute to increased production in public services for the benefit of users, employees and taxpayers. With the inclusion of a new global layer of public shopping, the force of the law improved and extended it to social services and other specific services. They also had a burdensome effect on member countries and particularly small rural communities in that more complex regulations went into effect for such services. This bill is designed to explain the rules and thereby simplify the implementation of these rules and to reduce uncertainty. The committee found three aspects of the bill being discussed in excess of other regulations. They turn to the right of buyers to turn down all offers, called chain responsibilities, and the State Buying, concomitantly, authority to set up a special shopping unit. Most of all, chain responsibilities have been discussed with practical projects. The bill allows the main contractor to secure and be responsible for receiving pay, health and accident insurance, and other remuneration and rights according to the current collective labour agreements. In January of this month, a work group on social subsidies and violations of the work market returned a report that suggests ten joints, including the obligation to chain responsibilities for public shopping laws. Several sources, such as ASI and BSRB, also emphasized the need to improve duty, not just authority, as per the bill itself. The Commission agrees with the authorities but also takes into account the views observed by other sources, especially the industrial organisations, that there was a considerable lack of adequate guidance on the implementation of chain responsibilities, i.e. how a major contractor should fulfill his responsibility. An international chain responsibility definition is not available. The task is, in fact, the task. in specifying what is a major contractor and whether it should be required to collect large amounts of personal details, such as the pay notes of employees' subsections. It can take on the pay of a competitor, and it must be prevented from conflicting with competitive rights. What reward is to be given so that it does not conflict with the law of responsibilities? A chain responsibility arrangement is already included in the laws on employee care and law on the posting of employees and the duties of foreign servants. Some people have already taken chain responsibilities into contracts for practical projects, such as land reactivation and the city of Reykjavík. The regulations are not uniform and can lead to uncertainty in some cases as to how to enforce the relevant terms. So far, these regulations have not been put to the test. - That's where representatives of the city of Reykjavík, who visited the Committee, found this to be a little loose and difficult to follow because of a lack of information about what was at stake. The committee suggests that instead of being allowed to request a buyer for a chain responsibility, they are required to do so. It is suggested that chain responsibilities not be taken into force until January 1, 2020. In the meantime, it is necessary for the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to provide additional guidance on the implementation of the law in close collaboration with the labour market partners, competitive authorities, and other economists. The bill suggests significant changes in the X chapter of the law, where the current rules for the operation of Kingdom Halls are generally discussed on the responsibility of a minister in this area. The aim is to increase flexibility in the arrangement for government shopping, making this more consistent with new emphasis on public shopping. The committee points out that there is a risk of reducing the importance of central shopping if its role is not clearly defined by law, even if it is not intended to abandon central shopping activities. In all of our neighboring countries as well as in the European Union's Directive, we will discuss a central shopping facility. The focus on the EU public shopping policy is all the best way to implement it using a more advanced central shopping centre, especially since most public citizens of this country are very small in format compared to the European Union. If there is to be a department at the Ministry, there will be a need to set up an institution that will supervise the government's purchases to ensure government management and that the regulations of the law are carried out. So the committee suggests that the collapse from canceling Kingdom Halls. The Commission feels that there is already considerable flexibility in the laws on public shopping to change the activities of the Agency as necessary. In this regard it is noted that already a minister is allowed to assign Kingdom Halls to care for other projects closely linked to the activities of the Agency, as shown by the 99th paragraph. The law. At that time, the Committee emphasizes that Kingdom Halls will be like those of the past. - Because we're talking about this change, we have reports that changes are proposed to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in which there is an increased coordination in the area of shopping and information technology to ensure the practicality of supporting services in a comparable way that has been done in our neighboring countries. Under these circumstances, there is a difference between the two groups. A market that could be part of this reform and innovation agency that could be supported by information technology, human resources, and this traditional and general education. We know that cooperation is important, that the cooperation between support services is more and better, and may lead to an even greater priority in priorities. It is the policy of the government that digital services will be the main way in government relations, between state and rural society and public and corporate. Within the Ministry of Economics and Economics, there is a office called Digital Iceland and, of course, its aim is to introduce digital technology into public service and improve access to it so that no matter where we live, it is possible to offer public jobs without a specific location being required. This is expected to be one of the things that can take place around the end of 2020, so it has become such a major road. The financial committee, or more of it at least, agrees that there may be a better way to set up some kind of reform agency that can accept the projects that are available, including those that may be available. in the field of information technology and digital services and other things that Kingdom Halls have also been working on. In view of what is suggested here, that we do not agree with them - we feel that the logic support is not sufficient for the bill under which we are paying to be settled - we have insisted that we be positive for the changes made by the Ministry but would like to receive the special bill of the subject on the autumn days and could handle it in a relatively short time if so. I don't think any person could object to making the administration even more efficient than it is, and, as I said before, more compatible than it already is. A respectable president. In addition, we discussed clearances to reject every offer. A few reports covered 6. the bill in which what is considered an inaccessible offer and when a competitive offer is permitted instead of accepting an offer. There was a discussion on 7th paragraph. where it is suggested that legalized be authorized to reject all proposals, there are objective reasons to do so. It contains, for example, can be mentioned as an example and can be of enormous importance, i.e. if a small community bid on a fairly large project goes 300 million. K. Emerging what was added to them is a major problem for that community, although they do not necessarily involve other activities. In these cases, they felt that justice was being done, agreeing with the committee. The bill's report shows that if all oers prove to be available in the budget of the buyer, they can live up to this law. The committee does not suggest a change in the above articles, but it does feel that it is necessary to interpret them in a way that will be more flexible than shown in the report by the bill. The Commission feels that this warrant is there when offers are received only considerably over the cost of a buyer's budget, which is available before the offer is opened. Each time and time an offer is considered to be substantially higher than the cost of a buyer's budget, it must then be determined by a decisiongiver. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Sæland Goland was away from the case, but he signed a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was a meeting of the Committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to his opinion. Under these publications. Chairman of the Fundament Committee, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, The one that stands here, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gursdottsd, Haraldur Benediktsson, Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Sæland Gond.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u63	V.E.G. President. We are here discussing a bill to correct the change in public shopping laws, fixed purchases, chain responsibilities, and so forth, and the prole of committees. The budget board. First, I'd like to thank the head of the committee, anyway. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir beak for detailed history, and in itself, it is not much to add to the detailed history and background of the articles. A senator went over here. However, I would prefer to include mainly two aspects of the chain responsibility and then the arrangements for the changes proposed in the bill, which are certainly meant to improve a number of factors that have been made after a full review of public purchases carried out in 2015 and took effect from the beginning of 2016. The goal is to make shopping more practical and more efficient than ever. The value of public shopping was increased by the change 2016, and now there is reason to sharpen several aspects of them and put them in place in this bill, to promote increased production in public services for the benefit of users, employees and taxpayers. Only to the chain of responsibility, a respectable president. This is in accordance with maximum policy. Governments inculcating such a law to do so as an obligation. It has not been considered forbidden to require chain responsibilities until now, and several public members have had such regulations in their exports. The main objective of the law is to support the misuse of environmental labour, as well as to increase the awareness of the buyers, and is in full agreement, as well as, under the highest policy. Governments, government contracts, and results of a staff report. Social and child-friendly minister on social subsidies and activities at the labour market for such a responsibility in the laws on public shopping. It was a committee who made this report. That group agreed to make their proposal for a chain responsibility to be passed on public purchase laws. The report, with the permission of the President, in view of the government tax manager's representative, needs to clearly define the responsibility of the contractors, limit the number of companies on the contractor's chain, and increase the duties of contracts to call for information from each contractor on pay and the submission of public fees. It is important that the chain of responsibilities involved involve the rights of employees and in taxation and duties. Then the National Association of Iceland stated that chain responsibility will be placed over the entire labour market. Regarding the concept, they presented an anticipating representative of the employment community that specific measures should be taken instead where the problems were present in the labour market. The general chain responsibility that would require costly monitoring would be too extensive. From this point on, it is important to have the proposed suggestions and instructions for implementation and that the Ministry, as the committee suggests, is here in its own sense. A manager went very well, consulted with the labour market partners and that there will be time to do so, as suggested by the Commission's transition to the bill. Finally, I would like to come to the proposed changes to the Kingdom Hall and shopping projects. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee and the why. The head of the committee actually went well with the committee from regulations that allow for the completion of Kingdom Halls and the authority to set up a special unit of work with various projects, including shopping issues. The Committee considers it necessary to develop these issues before changing the state's subsidies and is ready to consider in a positive way a special bill on that subject, therefore in the fall, about the organizational changes and changes and management practices that would be designed to improve the flexibility and ability to deal with changing environments and ways to improve the economic benefits of the state, with emphasis on conventional shopping, and to examine them from other places, such as developing from Denmark, where the emphasis has been on improving the coordination of shopping and information technologies with the development of the environment. The mission of the Ministry, through discussions with the committee, has been made clear that one of the key factors in this effort and practicality is to change the form of the Kingdom Halls into a general reform and innovation agency. In fact, there will be an important part of the work, but there may be greater opportunities to support institutions, especially information technology, human resources, and general education. Since there would be a significant change in the overall role of the Agency, the current authority to hide such tasks is considered insufficient. This is to take in section 6.3 of the available proposal for interpretation of the national financial programme. It shows that changes are being made in the establishments of reforms in the state. Would such changes be part of the plan, changing Kingdom Halls, with the aim for the Agency to become a special Office of the Ministry, which contributed to improvement in business and effectiveness in government activities. I just want to be here, Mr. Honorable President, at the end of my talk. An authority on how to make such changes appear on a special bill with a more detailed report. And the committee is available for that work. I also want to take this opportunity and thank you. The budget for working on the processing of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u64	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The General and Education Committee for the 2nd. on bill to correct a change in government law support for scientific research, No. 3/2003, with subsequent changes, the collection of international research programmes and the independent administration of the Industry Fund. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ásdís Jónsdóttir, Eiríkur Stephensen and Jón Vilberg Guðjónsson from the Ministry of Education and Culture, Eiríkur Steingrímsson and Klara Böðvarsdóttir from the University of Biography, Sveinbjörn, Gizurarson Pétur Gíslason of the National Institute of Science, U.S.A.A.A. The committee received reviews from the University of Iceland, the University of Biologists at the University of Iceland, the National Natural Science Institute for Iceland, the National Science Institute for the University of Science, and the Sveinbjörn of Gizurarson. The bill suggests that the Management Board of Industry will be separated from the Board of Research Fund and that it will be organized together by the Scientific Committee and the Technologies of Scientific and Technologies, with the exception of a candidate appointed by Minister, also that the Board of Research Fund is authorized to participate in the cooperation of international research programmes. There was a harmony among guests on the importance of international cooperation. However, there was a perspective on the need to secure more funding in the Research Fund and to ensure that the fund's success rate will be minimally 25% if the collection of research projects should not have a potential negative impact on scientific work in this country. They concluded that the funds should be covered. According to 2 mg. Section 3. The bill makes decisions about funding from the Research Fund on the basis of reviewing the rules set out according to Article 5. The law. The board seeks advice beyond what the financial advice of the fund can provide in case of need. The Commission points out that the Board of Research Funds is generally focused on the scientific and technical guidelines for the distribution of parallel professional assessments. They may, e.g. includes temporary emphasis on specific field of study or the importance of participation in international projects. The commission, with the requirements of the bill, is granted to the Research Fund to participate in international funding, but it is not a commitment to the administration. Substitution of this source would then be developed by a scientific committee and the Board of Research Fund with distribution policy, such as the conditions for the fund's participation in international projects and such activities, but there is currently no scope for the scope of such efforts. In the handling of the matter, the Committee noted that aftergradors are not to be able to commit to task managers or institutions without their consent, but they are not directly responsible for the infrastructure or research. So these persons need to send in a common application. The committee noted that this comment does not directly focus on Article 1. The bill is actually involved in the work of the National Research Centres of Iceland in the application and contract process of Research Fund. According to the Research Center's guidelines for granting strength to the applicant from the Research Fund, an application needs to follow the signing of the joint declarations of those enrolled as participants. Thus, a guide should be registered as an associate when an after-up student apply for a scholarship through an electronic application system. The applicant will then be informed about the application, and he will be informed that an application has been sent into his teamwork and the graduate. In addition, after a college student has been accepted into school and paid his dues, she also has to submit confirmation that he has been accepted for school. In view of the Committee, this arrangement should prevent a student from being able to commit anyone without consent but should guide it to the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that the procedure of applications is in order to maintain the approval of all applicants. In addition, the Committee considers it a good arrangement to stipulate such procedures in the rules of application, their handling and the distribution of the funds, as stated in Article 5. The bill. The Commission points to the Ministry of Education and Culture to review the rules of the fund and after events that will be updated in the light of the above. The committee then discussed the possibility of setting up a fund that strengthens scientific research and development projects that will benefit those nations who need development support. Such a fund has been set up in Britain for filming, it was published in a review of the case, in English language, in a dignified president, Global Challenges Researches Fund. The fund strengthens research projects that are useful to underdeveloped countries, but its strength also includes a part of the financial support that the State puts forth in the form of development aid. In this way, the Icelandic government could label a portion of the funds that go to public support for scientific research in support of research that directly affects the countries that require development support. However, the committee considers this to be a different subject than that of the bill and needs an inevitable closer look and consultation. So, in cooperation with the State Department of State, the Commission aims to take this issue further into consideration. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson's son, and Thordd Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdótir, who signed a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the opinion of this publication, the following column. Councilmen: Páll Magnússon, president of the past. Name is Willum Þór Þórsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jóndótir Valdimarsson, early in advance, Árnadóttir enjörnna, and Thordjörld Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u65	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the head of the Committee for a fine review of the case and the opinion of the committee. It was shown in the matter of what. A manager here wrote under the commission in advance, wanting me to make an account of him. My model is primarily to the National Research Fund and Fund with foreign projects. It was shown in the matter of what. An authority on the management of the fund, those who make funds from the fund, should be able to control it. But the reviews and visitors mentioned in the committee at least Part of them was of some concern that the worthwhile task of promoting and building a sumurance could possibly have a negative impact on the fund. They stressed the need for financial support so that such efforts could be greatly benefited without cutting off the funds that are used for other fund - care projects. With the permission of the President, I'm going to quote the review of the University of Iceland's Bioscients. It says: The proposal to cohesion is based on the ambitious policy of the 2013◯2016 Science and Technical Council. Sadly, the aims of the policy have not been achieved to a very small extent. For example, the strategy expected 2016 to reach scientific resources and innovations 3% of GDP. OECD data show that this target has been achieved in a far country where the proportion of Iceland to science and innovation in 2016 was only 2.07% of GDP, considerably below the OECD average of 2.34% in the same year, and far below the average of the northern countries, which was 2.73%. Since 2016 the same centenarian will be set up in the Research Fund regardless of GDP, which has helped to reduce success rates from 25% in 2016 to only 17% in 2019. In view of the mismanagement of the Research Fund, the changes proposed in case of action alone are likely to weaken the work of Icelandic science. I think it's right to call attention to this, and it's going to be clear, at least On my part, the treasure of the research is very poor. It is not to see that the government plans for increase in funds. In spite of the goal of adding to the wealth, this may lead to the success of other tasks. Therefore, I believe that it is right to reiterate and encourage the government to ensure adequate funding for the fund so that potential cohesion projects can be successfully accomplished without affecting the other distributions to the scientific work in this country. That's what I wanted to state. Still, I still believe in and support the bill, but with them in advance, it is very important that these issues be taken into consideration so that the good will of the bill does not go for the discovery of the research fund to fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u66	Mr. President. I'm here, as mentioned earlier, an article on the Environmental and Transport Committee's Committee on a bill to correct a change in commitment and pollution laws, No. 7/1998, with subsequent changes. It's an EEA principle, as we sometimes say or induction, and we often call it the daily load bill. The Commission has discussed the situation as it should, and has been contacted by visitors from the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Union of Iceland's Communicities, Corporation, Iceland's Business and Service, and also received reviews from the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association of Industrial Affairs and Business Associations, the Corporation, and the Ministry of Business and Business, and took care of it very carefully. In short, the bill of the Council of Europe and the Council Directive of 29 April 2015 refers to a change in Directive No. 94/62, to reduce the use of thin plastic carrier bags, brought to Icelandic correctly. The bill provides a target for the use of plastic carrier bags. The bill then provides certain measures to reduce the use of plastic loads. On one hand, such a load of carrier bags, including plastic loads, are forbidden to be administered, free of charge for products, and that the fee is visible on a box-growing. However, starting on January 1, 2021, the release of plastic vehicle bags will be prohibited whether or not there is a return. Whether the ban applies to a reused plastic load sold at camp after 2021 would be well - thought. I'll take a look. For the induction process, longer than the directive expects. During the arrival of guests, it was noted that the regulations of the bill on the prohibition of handbags to be delivered without charge, regardless of what they are, went beyond the European directive. It was also found that the reason for this was unclear and aims by extending the ban to all kinds of loads, as it is done. To answer, the bill exceeds the minimum directive requirements in three areas. First, it requires a reward for all carrier bags regardless of material, but this obligation includes only a thin plastic load. Second, the bill reaches a standard plastic carrier bag, irrespective of their thickness, but the directive includes plastic cargo bags, which are blistered with a so-called 50 micron. Third, the bill suggests that the delivery of a plastic carrier bag, whether with or without a price, is prohibited at products starting on January 1, 2021. The directive allows Member States to choose which measures are taken to help reduce the use of plastic carrier bags, which may include the use of economic instruments, such as prices, taxes and the market barriers. The committee has a trial according to the 3rd mg team. Section 8. The legislation on the treatment of the Convention of the European Parliament, made up of the European Commission shall be written by a bill to determine the extent to which the bill contains an abnormality from the original EEA model. In particular, if the minimum requirement of the subject is exceeded, logical support should be made with such a decision. The bill's report shows that the bill has gone further than necessary, but there is no evidence to support the selection. So the Commission directed to the Ministry to ensure that the regulations were followed by committees asking for support from the Environment and Resource Ministry in this regard. The Ministry responded, pointing out that it was necessary to cope effectively with plastic pollution and consumption. Without charge, the ban would highlight the importance of a multi-use bag, but it would be necessary to increase its share, reduce the use of vehicle bags, and prevent the transfer of single-use consumption to others. In this context the committee points out that the committee met with the Commission that if wax was placed on paper bags, e.g. for signs of shopping, the bag could not be recycled. Regarding the fact that the bill covers all plastic bags regardless of weight, the Ministry pointed out that Member States are encouraged not to exclude the diluted bags, i.e. if you are more than 15 microns. Iceland would also be encouraged as plastic bags thicker than 50 microns fell under the regulations of the bill. By allowing the bill to reach a weightless, carrierlike bag, it would help with the reduction of plastic loads. If certain thicknesss were excluded, there would be a certain risk of the use of these loads. The Ministry finally showed that in Member States it is permitted to choose measures to reduce the use of plastic carrier bags, but one of such measures is forbidden to deliver such a bag. By forbidding from January 1, 2021, delivering plastic cargo bags at products in any way needed, a clear signal was sent to reduce the use of plastic stock bags. The Commission agrees with the above opinions of the Ministry and also stresses the need for society to work through environmental options. Regarding the location of a law on loyalty and pollution prevention, it is possible that in a visitor's position this induction would be established in the waste management laws rather than in the laws on loyalty and pollution, where the bill was being proposed as waste prevention. In answer, the committee reviewed this, and the result is according to that question. 2.g. track No. 55/2003 holds the waste management laws defined as any waste material or items that a handsman decides to dispose of, will be disposed of, or will be disposed of. Then the commission points out that by bringing in the directive a new obligation is being submitted to a product, i.e. plastic foil sachets, but handling of the product should not be restricted to waste. With reference to this, the Committee agrees with the Ministry that it is better to refer to the duties of plastic carrier bags in a law on loyalty and pollution control. It was observed that it was unclear which official party should comply with the rules for carrying bags, so a large part of the enterprise fell under the regulations of the bill, not under the medical supervision or supervision of the health committees. Regarding monitoring of vehicle bags requirements, the Committee points out that according to 51 st. the laws on loyalty and pollution are required by the EEA to monitor the implementation of the law, including the regulations on the load bags proposed here to be added to the law. It is up to the Agency to determine the way it is involved in the surveillance process. Six. The bill is stipulated that the law gains value on July 1, 2018, except regulations 4. ...................................................................................................... However, the committee reminds us that during the recent years, several stores have taken action in order to replace disposable loads of carriers with special celebrations of the committee. Business companies were found to organise trade products, including load bags, on a few presupposes, and to be considered as to whether there will be a collection due to the delivery of a bag of knots, i.e. a thin plastic bag that would like to be found in the vegan departments. So a company may be confronted with throwing away any available bags, but there is no chance that the bill will achieve its purpose. In order to counteract waste of value and contribute to a good deal of reconciliation on the subject of the bill, it is suggested that b-joints be validated. Section 4. The bill will be postponed for two months. The committee feels strongly that there is wide reconciliation over the subject of the bill, and thus suggests that the implementation of Article 4 b-joints. which will be suspended until September 1st, 2019. The Commission, however, stresses that the objective of the bill is to reduce the use of plastic carrier bags, which is why a core point is that in view of the right committee, the importance of a business response is rapid, e.g. starting payment for all plastic carrier bags as soon as possible, as well as exchange of plastic bags for other environmental benefits, for both paper bags available in cashier shops and sachets. Finally, the Committee wants to go to section 4. The bill contains a set of objectives for the use of plastic body bags. It has to be determined that no later than 31 December 2019 will be the annual number of plastic carrier bags that each individual uses 90 or less and 40 or less will be on December 31, 2025. This is in accordance with 2 mg. 1st par. The Directive on the regulations of Member States to achieve a sustained reduction in the use of thin plastic carrier bags on their domain. The committee takes the importance of reaching these targets, including with reference to the threat of waste plastic bags to ecosystems and biodiversity in water and sea. In view of the fact that the law is generally intended to apply for the future, the Commission feels that the statistical and timeliness in the Regulation are better established. So the committee suggests a change in point four. aimed at achieving the precise targets for the use of plastic vehicle bags. If this is the case, a minister should be allowed to set in force more than a law on the details of the purpose of using such a load. At the sentence of such goals, including The requirements of Community legislation, the waste management policies and local programmes are taken into account. There are a number of legal modifications on the bill. In short, the Commission concluded: Plastic brushed bags are only a small fraction of the problem resulting from plastic loss and consumption. The commission points to the need for extensive measures and change of thinking in society so that plastic pollution can be reduced. However, according to the Committee, the bill is a clear step in the fight against plastic over its head. In view of all of the above views, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made into four teams. The first with regard to the absolute objective of using plastic vehicle bags. One factor has to do with the absolute goals, i.e. to aim to achieve specific targets and, in addition, that a minister is permitted in the Regulation to set further regulations for that absolute objective. Third, there is a little legal change and a fourth team, which I'm not going to reenact here. It is time to state the agreements and signatures. It's under the heading "Why." Senator Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the program. Environment and Transport Committee, and the one standing here, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson signes in advance that in this case and others related to the aims of reducing plastic bags use will be looked forward to a representative of the government and professional life from 2016 as well as to develop the cooperation of commerce and the EEA as well. Preparing to control consumers from plastic bags to a greater extent using prices while highlighting education and innovation. Others who sign are Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Linniika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Resa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornóllfótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason were away at the hearing. Jón Gunnarsson was away at the deportation, but he signed in accordance with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Most important, Leví Gunnarsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Mr. President. I've been speaking for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's story. I'm not going to extend this case very much, but I thought it was a reason to come up here because I was part of this group of consultations and debates. My assistant, and we split this work between us in a brotherly way. So I felt that there was reason to come here and say something. I'm very happy that I'm determined to go further, i.e. not to separate the most diluted bags, which are often involved in calming the conscience. There's talk of a fly-sense bite, but it's just a traditional conscience. It's not a plastic bite, I think. When people do not want to buy standard plastic bags in stores, they may take three, four small ones, and they think they're better. Of course not. These bags are a vision worse than the others. So I'm really happy that we're going further. In accordance with government contracts and environmental ministers, these plastic issues are under high priority. The service group contributed a number of things. It was an 18-stage plan on reducing the use of plastics, improving recycling, and handling plastic pollution in the ocean. The group even laid down. to forbid plastic discs, plastic knives, plastic tubes, and other disposable plastics, as specified in the draft of the directive to be hurried and assembled and introduced from January 1, 2020. It was also suggested that a targeted awareness of how much we use plastics and plastics and that a special research and development fund would be established that would support new solutions. Plastic is so wide. Microplastics and fibre-plastics and foam plastics. We use it on a tremendous scale. Unfortunately, what we buy is often wrapped in plastic. It also requires that companies be able to cope with this. If large countries like France can ban these plastic discs and knives and so forth then Iceland must be an ideal country to deal with the removal of plastic products. I also mention that last year the British took up the challenge of banning the hygienic products containing microplastics, starting in 2020. It speaks of a great effort to clean up our country's beaches and to help companies and companies with central information to choose environmental solutions, e.g. ... underwheats. Somehow, we have to get into that position, whether that is the case. To bring our valleys to the fish store and buy us fish in there. I don't think it's allowed under the medical standards today, I understand. Several carnivores have been looking for ways to packed into an environmental package and it is well. Sadly, though, too much of the food we buy is nonemployable. There is something that we ourselves need to cope with. Of course, we should not have to put everything in order to do so, to perform such things, in view of all the information that has taken place, all the plastic pollution we see in the sea. The day's lid, which was considerable in the media, showed us an enormous amount of all kinds of junk, plastic, and so forth. Of course, it is up to us to change our conduct in these matters. This is a step. A little step. But this is a good step, and this is it. As I say, I just wanted to come here right away to tell you that there were many things that this group suggested, and the minister has begun to work out of it and to make suggestions of it. I am most pleased that the process is begun by a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u68	Mr. President. I just want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for referring to this group of work she served in, and I entered as a backup for some time. This is this plastic surgery plan, if we can call it that. It's inside the box of consultation, and there's 18 teams that all aim toward a very tight plastic. What's good about that plan is that there are some bans anticipated, but both innovations, educations, and, let's say, a pretty soft way of saying no. So I think it's very important that it comes up here in the discussion that this bill, which I did here for the Commission opinion, is just a small step of those to be taken. Or I'd like to mention one point. There were, for example, some who were worried about guests. The environment and transport committee on the bill, that these bans could be avoided, these problems of supplying bags in shops by various sources. However, the viewpoint was that consumers, buyers who come to these shopping stores, provide the highest resources, and ensure that rules and bans will not be followed - much easier and more than any designated member, if that is the case. So I think we can be very optimistic about the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u69	Mr. President. I'll explain to the Commission's article on bill to legalize a change in marine protection law, No. 50/2004, with subsequent changes. So it's about day tickets, stowaways, and so on. It's from what I'm talking about. Environmental and Transport Committee. I do so in the absence of an executive speaker, Vilhjálmur Árnason, who is on a different matter, and thus he is away. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Ásta Sóllilja Sigurbjörnsdóttir from the Department of Transport and Division. The committee received one report from Iceland's Haflance. The bill suggests that changes in marine protection laws are subject to measuring for the access of the CA to apply day-to-day cognition, they do not meet their obligations according to the laws of the law and, on the other hand, measuring the penalty for violating violations of the prohibitions of going into the waters of the marine control area, i.e. Entering specific areas that are defined in the ports of the country. As shown in the bill report, this is presented following the approved law No. 71/2018, of the change in marine protection law and air travel laws from June 8, 2018. So it comes in the wake of a certain law. In the case of the Commission ( 653th Act of the 148th Court), judicial decisions for judicial punishment, political fines, and day guilty were suspended, and therefore directed directly to the Ministry to revise their proposals on such matters, taking into account the specific viewpoints, including those of the European Commission. extremes of concern. The Commission describes his satisfaction in the work of the Ministry and believes that with a bill it is responding to the indications and comments that the committee made on the matter in her opinion of a Senate document of 1056. Gives the committee the bill to be accepted as unchanged. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, is in agreement with this opinion, along with the chairman of Director Jón Gunnarsson's son who was supposed to be here, the Árnason of Willalmi, and the one who stands here, the Ari of Trausti, the son of Guðmundsson. More people sign: why? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Hanna Kristín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Linniika Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir. So I have explained this brief committee party, which has concluded that the bill will remain the same. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u70	Mr. President. I'm here to recommend a committee party. the welfare committee on bill to legalize sterilization procedures. Like what? Councilmen are aware of this bill as part of the method of dividing the law on abortion and sterilization procedures from 1975, i.e. Code No. 21/1975. Therefore, it is decided to have specific laws on sterilization, as well as a clear paper with the bill. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors, such as the above mentioned in the Committee. The committee also received reviews from the office of the surgeon general, the partner of Icelandic birth and gynecologists, the Icelandic Women's Rights Association, the National Hospital, the Developmental Association, the National Institute of Morality at the University of Iceland, the office of Children's Directors and the Institute for Development. Then the committee also received a memo from the Ministry of Health for the case. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the bill is part of the overall review of the legislation on counseling and training about sex and pregnancy, and on abortion and sterilizations, No. 25/1975. It suggests III. The chapter of the law falls out, and in return, this new whole law will come. It is assumed that the right to sterilization will be clear, free, and carried out by those with appropriate education and experience. At the same time, it is assumed that the results of the procedure will be assured to the people. Along with the bill, they put in a bill to fix pregnancy break, as I had the chance to do before. The review of 2 mg was primarily covered by the Committee's regulations. Section 3. The bill that reads, with President's permission, as follows: It is only allowed to perform sterilization procedures on individuals who are not legal for childhood reasons where a person's fertility may be expected to have a serious impact on the life or health of the individual and should be confirmed by two physicians, as well as by the approval of a specific legal guardian. 53. g. Legally legalized.How many songs do you know? The discussion in the Committee on the topic was quite extensive, including it quoted a significant earlier history of sterilization because they were sometimes performed here in the past simply without a question. It is obvious that in our modern society and with the human rights we all feel that we have not accepted that such action will continue, for the committee feels that it is quite right in the bill. The reviews of the case and the discussion of the Committee were expressed concern that, as I learned earlier, the plan had been overemphasized and that the above questions had been asked. Then, as I mentioned, worry about past experiences was also expressed. The committee obliges that the purpose of the law is not to prevent a certain group of individuals from forming children. Therefore, surgery will only be performed on the basis of the source if medically necessary. In addition, the Committee points out that in the bill it is not expected that the measures will be used if other and less invasive measures are taken, including for the development of long term contraception with so-called letters or comparable measures. They would further be endeavored to employ long-term contraception. It is also important to point out that 2 mg is required. Section 3. the bill, especially those concerning the order of a special lawyer, as stated at 53rd. Legal laws, making sure that the interests of an illegal person are particularly committed in such cases. Then came the Commission's comment on the importance of having such a legal authority as this, and it would be guaranteed that it would not be abused. The committee feels that it is proper to emphasize in particular 2 mg. Section 3. This includes an exception from the general rule that a sterilization procedure is only allowed to be made to the wish of an 18 - year - old and that the requirement should be interpreted narrowly. It was then established that sterilization would generally be irreversible, and it would require special decision making. The committee agrees with this view, but it also feels right to point out that sterilization procedures as defined in the bill include closure of fallopian tubes or seminal ducts, but not the removal of gonads. Therefore, preparation of the procedure is possible to ensure that, including by cryoconservation of oocytes or sperm, that, with the assistance of modern technology, the person can enhance his or her sex status if he wishes to do so at a later time. So, above, the committee does not consider these factors to be a reason for changing the bill. The committee also made the viewpoint that prior to surgery especially needs to be considered, as stated in Article 4. The bill. Keeping in mind the need for special instruction to those who are disabled, slow - minded, or spiritually ill, would find it difficult to apply the information available. In an explanation of Article 4. The bill says that education is individualized. This is made clear in an explanation of Article 8. the bill that the educational responsibility is one of the HCP's duties. In accordance with general penalties and the health care professionals laws, the obligation to honor them is subject to law. However, the rights of the committee also ensures that health care professionals are informed about the individual's needs for the instruction and guarantees the right to make informed decisions. In 1st. Section 5. the bill tells you that sterilisation procedures should be carried out in accordance with the health care laws, patient rights and other treatments as appropriate. The review of an official surgeon stated that it is important that the details of the procedure be recorded accurately and that the number of measures included in a medical registry should be maintained, as it might be more appropriate to specify specific laws on the patient records in the provision. According to the Ministry of Health, there is no need to specify medical records specifically, in view of the need to be referred to other laws as appropriate. In spite of this, the Committee considers that the patient records laws are specifically stated in the regulations that apply to all sterilization procedures. In view of this, the Committee suggests the adjustment to the addition of the patient file law to a list of 1 mg. Section 5. At the same time, the surgeon's review stated that the procedure should be written and supported. In this regard the Commission takes note that a decision to be made on an operation is a administrative decision and someone is always entitled to support a decision on the basis of 1 mg. Twenty-one. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. Then the committee suggests small changes in wording that do not have a material significance and therefore do not need special support. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the three - joint opinion of the committee. Ásmundur Friðriksson was away from the hearing. Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature is regarded as having been passed at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the headings of Halldóra Mogensen, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Elíasdóttir Flandersd, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Ánadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u71	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator is eager to review the committee's opinion of this delicate bill regarding sterilization. I actually come up here because of my former job as a lawyer. On several occasions, very rarely, I was asked to be a legal guardian, not really - for humanitarian reasons - passed through pregnancy. I just wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether this discussion has not been conducted in the Committee for special application for sterilization procedures in persons with severe developmental impairment, how the discussion was on the committee regarding these individuals, and a warrant for sterilization of these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for the answer. Yes, it was, naturally, as the senator agreed to discuss these matters on the committee. The views came, including to see if it would normally be necessary to have the warrant. However, after both visits and discussions on the committee, the Commission concluded that this would be wise. However, as I mentioned earlier, the committee believes that the warrant is exactly that - a warrant. Therefore, in extreme circumstances, you should always try to take other measures until you are directly involved in performing sterilization procedures on someone who may not be able to tell you about it. There was also much discussion on the importance of ensuring that even these individuals have access to information and education that would be in accordance with their ability to receive such information and that for the development of staff, such as coaching, social workers, depending on cases that would be especially qualified for such instruction, they would be directed to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Perhaps, as I am not on the committee, would it not be clear that those who have been working on this committee, within a Hospital, and at the professional level that in recent years, it has been quite clear - what should you say? - Unleashed in these matters? That it has been rare and in extreme circumstances that this way has gone, as well as in cases where the individual himself cannot really express his feelings about it. How was that discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u74	Mr. President. It is true that, of course, the committee discussed that, thankfully, these actions are very rare. That's at least I feel, and I think other members of the committee, that the decisions made on such measures are well prepared, taken by careful management, and there is certainly no loose or looseness in the decision-making process. Fortunately, they hear today's words to complete exceptions, and we are, as I mentioned earlier, there in - let's say our way in the rights of disabled people - that it is no longer that we are making decisions particularly about delicate matters like this, without being well prepared. The fact that such a situation is really out of harmony with the standard for human rights we would like to live with as a nation is no longer true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u75	V.E.G. President. I would like to introduce to you the factors that I feel are of utmost importance to the Committee on Health Committee with a change in bill to legalize sterilization. First, I'd like to say, by permission of the President: ▪ The reviews of the case and the discussion of the Committee were expressed concern over the use of excessive and proposed measures. Then concern over past experiences in sterilization procedures involving slow and disabled persons was reported and the application of the directive would be carried out against will and in some cases unrecognised. I feel that it is important that the opinion of the committee should be expressed in a special way. It was also found that, in all cases, such sterilizations were irreversible. Therefore, it is important to consider all decisions. Special attention should be given to personal education. Finally, I'd like to say and give them special emphasis on what was just discussed, as it is said that more should be sought to use measures like long - term contraception. That, in my opinion, is the key to this committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u76	President. I recommend a greater part of the APC for a primary pregnancy breaker. The bill suggests that a new total pregnancy - related law will be established with the objective of ensuring and highlighting the right of women to self - custody over their bodies and the right of each individual to make a decision about pregnancy. In view of the greater part, it is time to review counselling and instruction regarding sex, pregnancy, abortion, and sterilization laws, No. 25/1975. General satisfaction had the emphasis on women's self - determination rights and the detoxification of existing laws that involve discrimination on the basis of disability. Nevertheless, according to the guidelines given in Article 4, various carers and stakeholders of disabled people made comments about allowing pregnancy to be broken to the end of the 22nd week. The bill. It was pointed out that while the bill was decommissioned by older law, which allows discrimination on the basis of disability, discrimination of discrimination was not really guaranteed. Thus, many disabled persons would be exposed to 20 weeks of foetal screening, which could still be the basis for a pregnancy break. In this regard, there was an idea of binding the source at the end of week 18, as suggested in bill films, or at the end of week 20. A review of the separation of pregnancy until the end of week 22 was extensive in the Committee. In view of the greater part, the evidence for allowing pregnancy to be broken through week 22 is biphasic. On the one hand, some serious abnormalities may be observed during a 20 week foetal screening that cannot be detected in early pregnancy. However, women living under difficult social conditions do not always have a chance of realizing that they are pregnant until late in pregnancy. Therefore, they have limited potential for help to break their pregnancy due to social conditions. For the first thing, it was observed that after 20 weeks of pregnancy, tests were generally performed, starting with the baby's first clear picture. If the screening was made earlier, it would be impossible to adequately identify the results and to increase the possibility of a woman's having vague or misleading information. By doing so, the woman could not make a decision that was fully informed. It would also be important to allow space to determine the results of the screening as well as to give the woman time to make a decision. The majority agree with these views. For the second point, it was found that in exceptional circumstances, very bad social conditions had required pregnancy breakers in Britain. This should, e.g. for women who had serious drug problems and women who were violent and who could not bear a child with the violent man. In that case, the women in general would have to pay the full amount of money for their actions. The majority of the concern is that the health system does not meet women in this situation, but with the approved bill there will be an important step toward improving the status of these women. Also, the majority of the cases indicate that by limiting pregnancy discontinuation authority at the end of week 18, the availability of women would be limited to the current legislation. So such a change is not supported by the law's purpose to increase the woman's self - determination. In view of the factors that have been attributed to this, a greater proportion of the two components have reason to allow pregnancy loss until the end of week 22 to suggest a 1 mg per word change. Section 4. who leaves no doubt that it is the right of the woman to have an end to pregnancy. In view of the greater part, it is unavoidable to discuss concomitant authority on pregnancy withdrawal until the end of Week 22, such as Article 4. The bill, as well as the instruction a woman has the right to make a pregnancy break decision, compare with Article 8. The majority stress that women's self - determination rights will be unambiguous. This includes the advice of the woman alone on grounds behind the decision to break the pregnancy. To say that it is necessary to make sure that a decision will always be made, not on the basis of prejudice, lack of information, or ignorance. According to the requirement, counseling and instruction are given impartially, with respect to human rights and with respect to human dignity, the greater part is thought that no one can decide whether to end pregnancy unless the woman herself. Nevertheless, it is impossible to teach women, and this obligation involves another type of limitation of women's self - determination, as well as difficulty in seeing how such education will benefit women who do not want it. Therefore, it must be ensured that women who have to decide whether to end their pregnancy do not hesitate to take advantage of the instruction offered because of fear of the prejudices they themselves may encounter within the medical system. So puts more of the item into that change of 8. the bill to state that a woman is entitled to instruction and advice from a doctor, a nurse, a midwife, and a social worker, as necessary. Along with the above changes, the more part will therefore be directed to the Ministry of Health to cooperate with their institutions to ensure that health professionals involved in the pregnancy break-off process and, along with them, are provided with instruction on the subject of the bill, the changes in its content and their obligation to provide women who intend to undergo pregnancy violations of impartial education. In this regard, the greater part also points out that the educational responsibility is one of the healthcare professional's responsibilities under the bill to protect it from violations of repairs. 1 1. It is. The Committee discussed the question of the status of a healthcare professional when a woman wishes to have a pregnancy break in spite of doctor's advice on another matter or when performing a pregnancy crisis conflicts with her religious or moral attitude. In this regard, the greater part points out that according to Article 14. Healthcare Professional Relation, No. 34/2012, a health - care professional is permitted to flout tasks that conflict with his religious or moral outlook, making sure that the patient receives the necessary medical care. In addition, it was noted that the birth of a child is in all cases more dangerous than pregnancy ruptures, so the rationality of a healthcare professional is to avoid pregnancy breaking with the indication that a woman's life is at risk very limited. The majority agree with this view, but it shows that it may be difficult to cut off a healthcare professional to provide services that conflict with his religious or moral views. Although a health care professional's law is valid in the implementation of pregnancy, the greater understanding of the matter adds to women's clarity and right to end pregnancy is to add a new paragraph to Article 4. Nevertheless, the law to restrict a health care professional from his duty should ensure that the woman's rights are ensured. Adds more of the item to the modification proposal of that material. In the reviews of Icelandic birth and gynecologists and Iceland's Surgeon Association, statements were made on regulations 7th. the bill on pregnancy discontinuation. These enterprises require pregnancy loss under the guidance of a specialist in the field of gynaecology, which includes too narrow a limitation of the ability of specialists to perform the procedure. The provision would not ensure that clinical care due to pregnancy discontinuation could be provided in all Member States, as expected in Article 6. That would have been the case with a general surgeon, including the surgeons. in Nesafandi and Nesbús, surgical procedures during pregnancy and delivery, such as uterine emptying from pregnancy rupture and miscarriage and caes execration. The majority agree with these views and suggests that following the words of a woman's cure specialist, a specialist in general surgeon experienced and trained in uterine emptying can be followed by a majority of them: According to Article 12. on February 1, 2019, the bill was to have a pregnancy break-in. The majority suggest that the entry of the law be suspended until September 1st, 2019, as well. so that the Ministry of Health allows cooperation on education for those HCPs who will work on the grounds of the law and allow them to adapt the necessary medical records to the standards that result from the bill, according to the review of the surgeon's office. Then the more part will suggest a change of 13. to ensure compliance with the bill to correct sterilization procedures proposed at the same time as the bill. Under the committee of this magazine, Ólafur Guðjón S., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guonánsson Brjánsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agree with this view. Finally, more is suggested to agree with the changes outlined above in a special Senate document. I might add to it right at the end. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: ▪ A little more than 43 years have passed since law No. 25/1975 were approved at the General Assembly. In fact, the findings of the Council at that time were, in some respects, a compromise in considering the bill submitted at the World Council in 1973, as detailed in section 3. Based on this bill, women's self - determination right to make a decision regarding pregnancy should be respected. The bill was subject to great opposition and led to changes in women's authority to make a decision regarding pregnancy loss itself, restrictions on authority and the ability to make decisions was partly made to two doctors or doctors and social workers. I find it interesting to think that at the time these decisions were made, nine women had taken their seats at the General Assembly. We should keep in mind that now, when we are really securing women's self - determination rights, there are many more of us. Perhaps that is why we are making these important changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for her story here. According to the bill, the decision to break off pregnancy is for the woman only until the end of week 22 i.e. There is no need for advice or advice. It's a choice. I wondered about it, and it would be good to have a point of view. A senator, whether there is no danger that a woman who only wishes to have another sex could abuse the law and have an abortion or break a pregnancy simply for that reason. The situation will arise where a woman asks for an abortion because of sex, and it would be good to get an opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u78	President. I appreciate the inquiry, but I don't see a basis for this to be done by the current legislation. When we're talking about increasing the woman's self - determination, that this is the woman's choice, the message we're giving them is that we trust women to make that decision. The most important change today is that instead of being a doctor and social worker or two doctors who make the decision for the woman, the woman is making her own decision. Considering the reasons why a woman breaks her pregnancy, whether it is because she wants a boy to be more than a girl or something else, expresses an overwhelming lack of confidence in women.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not saying that I don't trust women in this. These cases have occurred, and I have talked to obstetrics, since these cases have occurred. Then you ask yourself: " What situation does this place for health care professionals? In 1st. the bill was discussed with the woman's right to control her own body. Then you ask yourself, " What is the right of the unborn child? ' Furthermore, one might ask: " What is the Father's right? ' Is he a secondary in this relationship? The law of the law is now to include the father in the woman's pregnancy breaker application. What does it look like? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u80	President. I think the answer to this is just that it is a child of its own time that men have authority over women's bodies. We have finally reached the point where everyone must realize that she is the woman who has to make that decision, the child she bears and knows best for her. I can't see that this decision can be brought to the man. I wondered, " Why would a senator feel that women are for some reason making decisions about having children from sex? ' Why are we talking about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for history. There's really just one question that woke up while I was listening to a talk. A senator, one thing I'd like to ask about. It is part of the evidence that the bill is continuing unchanged, that women living in difficult social situations are highly dependent on addiction, etc., have had to go to Britain for abortion during the past few years. I wanted to know if the majority of the Committee has information on how many of these cases there are, for example. In a year after five, six years, each. A senator can answer my questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u82	President. Thanks for the inquiry. The information we received from the experts who visited the Committee was that it was four or five women a year, but this is not necessarily registered at all. These are the information we get from the partners who work with these women and help them. I think it's important to make a decision that today a woman has the right to break her pregnancy up to week 22. The change now is that the woman herself decides, not a doctor, two doctors, or a doctor, and a social worker who makes a decision on behalf of the woman. These are the women who are in the most difficult and delicate situation that has not been able to break up in this country who have had to undergo pregnancy break. Of course, this change would make it possible for these women to attend this service here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u83	Yeah, that's exactly four women out of a thousand. But there is something else I would like to ask. A senator on September 1, 2019. Now I don't know if the Senator has full interest in what I'm asking about, but I would like to ask if a greater part of the committee really thinks that the time for the recording, September 1, 2019, 100 days or so, will be sufficient for the Ministry of Health to prepare this change in a reasonable way, i.e. So that everyone should be on the same foot, if I can put it that way, immediately September 1st. I would have thought, given the way the state moves, that it would take a year even to make a change like this one. So I would like to ask if this brief period of time didn't ring any bells at the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u84	President. I also state that these four or five women we received information about who are in a very difficult social situation and who have had to break up, are just those we know of who have been able to do so. There may be a lot more who can't afford it. I understand that it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to go to Britain to break your pregnancy. It may be nice to keep that in mind. In terms of time, this is the information we received from the surgeon, we had to postpone the execution, and we were told that this was enough time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u85	A respectable president. It's my duty to say, "Thank you so much." A senator before the story, but I was hoping that this would not have to happen. I would like to ask, since the biggest evidence is the woman's self - determination and the importance of our decision whether and when to have a child killed by us: Has any woman been denied an abortion in Iceland in 2017 or 2018?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u86	President. No, it has - well, except for women who do not agree with the law now and cannot have a pregnancy break because they live in difficult social conditions. In that case, they have no choice of pregnancy break-in at home and have gone to Britain to have a pregnancy break. So after week 16, a woman who is in a difficult social setting cannot break her pregnancy here at home. It's not a reported case. We don't know how many women there are, so it's not quite fair to say that there has no woman got no denial. But they can't even apply for it, they are women who would now have the option of breaking a pregnancy if they needed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u87	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Is it not a little far spent talking about women who have had to go to Britain to have an abortion without actually applying for it at home? You're saying you don't know how many there are. There's no such thing as a file on it, nothing. What kind of compromise is this, Mr. Honorable President? I say, I'm kind of depressed so that I can go on. But that's what you're saying. A senator, that after the 16th week there was no abortion in Iceland because of an application in those years, 2017 and 2018. No child destroyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u88	I think we're getting way too much from the real goal of the bill. Today, a woman should undergo pregnancy break up up to Week 22. That's just the way it is. It's just that there are other people who decide for them whether it's legal for them to break up. Clothes are built into the laws we are going to take out, and we are bringing the woman's self - determination, that she decide for herself because there is no one better to decide this than the woman herself. We must not lose sight of this. We must not distrust women either. All the data indicate that we will not increase the number of pregnancy fractures by allowing women to decide this for themselves. Because we are not expanding any legislation, there is no danger that women may begin to break up because we are not extending pregnancy. Rather than making any choice for the woman, we are making the decision. That's what it's all about, and I'd love to keep the discussion there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u89	A respectable president. I come up here because statistics tell us that every five abortions are destroyed. 20%. Of 4,000 pregnancies, nearly 1,000 abortions are abortions each year. We're talking about three or four a day. That's a terrible thought. Of the 1,000 destroyed fetuses, there are 30◯40 cases where the abortion is done for medical reasons. The rest is what? I say for my part that I think we should respect life. In my case, I didn't want to hurt a fly. But I ask, Is it normal to expand? For according to this, there is no one to deny it. Why, then, do we have to take this for 22 weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u90	President. I wonder if I'm saying things that I'm not very good at. We're not expanding anything. We're not extending any sources. A woman can break her pregnancy today at week 22. It's just someone else who makes that decision. They have not been denied - except for those women who are unable to apply for pregnancy break because this is not a legal warrant today, they obviously need to attend this service elsewhere. We're not talking about any dilation. We are talking about showing respect for a woman who knows best whether she wants a child or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u91	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. But, yes, I guess we're extending this. We're making it easier. The woman's direct decision makes this easier. These vague cases, which have been visited abroad, these cases which are not recorded and that have no known but are in the discussion. I'm just asking myself if we're talking there about maybe one or two cases. And for my part, I say, why in these cases, one or two a year, hasn't this been tested? I see no point in extending this warrant on the grounds that perhaps... there may be one or two cases per year in which someone has not been able to have an abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u92	President. I wondered: " Is it difficult for women to attend medical care? To have a pregnancy break? Is that acceptable? Does a woman need to be a martyr to receive health care? Isn't it normal that we don't make this harder than it already is? This idea that we're expanding this. All I can see is that she is that we don't trust women to make that decision. [[Up front.]] If we're expanding this, it's saying that women are going to have a pregnancy break. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is saying. That's just not the case at all. And to say this is really just a little unpleasant - I'm sorry, Mr President. In Canada, the number of pregnancy breakes per year is reduced in hospitals, indicating an increased use of quinine medicinal products, meaning that women break up earlier. As self - determination has increasingly been transferred to the woman, there is a reduction in the number of pregnancy breaks, not in the number of them. [[The president calls.]] This isn't getting any bigger. Women don't make this fun of themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u93	V.E.G. President. In many ways, the first part of memory agrees with the views presented in the bill's report to highlight the self - determination rights of women and the right of individuals to make their own decisions about pregnancy. However, the first minor section points out that the aim is to break the pregnancy law on sexual counseling and instruction regarding pregnancy and pregnancy, and on abortion and sterilization measures, no. 25/1975, and depart from the laws that involve discrimination on the basis of disability, must be repealed on the basis of disability. Counts 1st smaller things are not in line with the above objectives of allowing pregnancy to be broken in the late stages of pregnancy and suggested in the bill, i.e. to the end of week 22. Sets a smaller portion of 1st to allow pregnancy break-in until the end of the 18th week, as suggested in the series. In this regard, 1st will take a smaller part under the viewpoint as reflected in the IBI and the joint review of the National Institute of Development and the Association of Interested Down syndrome. In particular, 1st small part highlights the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Discriminatory People on the basis of disability. By allowing pregnancy discontinuation until the end of week 22 to be prevented, the rationale for allowing pregnancy break to be allowed late in pregnancy is not really to be prevented when disability occurs at 20 weeks of embryonic screening. Counts 1st smaller parts of the process that has gone down on the bill do not really involve decommunication. At that time, smaller things cannot agree with the views expressed in the greater part that by allowing pregnancy to continue late pregnancy, women in difficult social situations will be protected. A memory of 1st memory that women's conditions can still be managed by by the end of week 18 and that the number of women who break up will not change by allowing pregnancy to be broken until week 22. This will highlight a smaller part of the education proposed for women concomitantly with pregnancy breakes. In terms of memory loss, it is not sufficient for women to be trained by health professionals, including sociologists, as suggested in the opinion of the greater portion, but also for women the right to be educated by independent authorities or independent operating experts. Otherwise, 1st will take less than the views as reflected in the majority of the pregnancy break-offs against the physician's advice and the performance of pregnancy discontinuation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u94	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttur Kolblönnadóttir made clear her opinions presented in view of the 1st cut-off of the welfare committee. There is one point, though, that I don't quite understand. I would like to ask the senator to explain to me a little more clearly what is meant. The next article in the poll says that 1 less is not considered sufficient for women to be educated by health professionals, including sociologists, but also for women the right to be educated by independent authorities or independent operating experts. I'd like to pray. A senator should focus on what it means by those words. Which members are the ones referred to here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. I especially mean that we had our guests, including... from interested persons' association on Down syndrome, who said they weren't often consulted. That's what I'm stressing, that people are informed about the existence of organizations and special groups of people who put their arms around these classes, so that everyone realizes that it is not just health professionals who have knowledge of what will be and how.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This explains the situation to me quite a bit. I'd still like to ask, though, because I haven't sat on a welfare committee in the treatment of this case now, should I? A senator is suggesting that this instruction be some kind of duty or something similar. I agree with the view that in line with the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, it is very important that prospective parents have access to information, including the following: about disability. Although I believe that this is the case, I believe that women's self - determination always goes further and that it is the main thing. Of course, it is important to have good education. I ask if the senator is suggesting that such instruction be done. I'm not sure I agree that I would want to go so far, although I agree that there needs to be a good access to information. I reiterate what I have said, of course, to the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. However, he is not opposed to the fact that women are always in control of their own bodies or that they should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I can well agree with the self - determination of women, that he is what may be the point of this in my mind. If we discuss a duty to train, I am not entirely obliged to do so and to teach the entire family. What I would like to like to see is that health care professionals were obliged to inform the contact that is out there that can provide further advice and often on the basis that we call "nomadism," if I can use that wording. That's kind of what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u98	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill for pregnancy break-in from the 2nd small part of the welfare committee. Section 2 agrees with the opinion of the greater proportion of legislation on sexual counseling, pregnancy and abortion and sterilisation, no. 25/1975, is timely despite partial disagreements with some of the basic elements of the bill. The bill suggests that a new total pregnancy - related law will be established with the objective of ensuring and highlighting the right of women to self - custody over their bodies and the right of each individual to make a decision about pregnancy. When it comes to life from two people, 2 less is considered to be too much for the other person to have a single authority to determine whether to end the pregnancy. Thus, the only prospective mother is entrusted with a heavy responsibility. Another smaller section welcomes the changes proposed in the bill regarding the no longer allowing for pregnancy to occur unless there are met medical conditions, so there will no longer be permission based on teratogenicity, genetic defects, or foetal damage. However, it is important to wonder over time that tests will become more complete each day and that there is a limit to what is interpreted as medical. The beautiful thing about life is that there are many coloured flowers in the garden. Where should the line be set if life is to end in the womb? At the end of week 12, the end of pregnancy, week 22 of pregnancy, or should a parent decide to end this life immediately after birth? Life is sacred, and the second degree of conviction is less than that it should be protected by all available means. Any pregnancy loss or break must always be an emergency, and in view of the less part 2, it must be considered preferably if the pregnancy is threatening the life or health of the prospective mother or if it becomes clear that the fetus is not viable. Rather than talking about expanding rights for abortion, we would be closer to helping prospective mothers with problems raising their children. In Iceland's Bishop's review of the bill, it says: ▪ Our Christian faith is sacred, Guð - given gift, and is accepted by Guð. It is man's responsibility to preserve and protect it as far as possible and to respect the privacy of the human race, creation, and the Creator. Other smaller things add up to those words. The bill received 57 talks and reviews showing that many are concerned about the matter. A greater proportion of those who sent envelopes oppose the bill, or they encourage further investigation. Clearly, there are some conflicting views, and the question is, Is there any need for further discussion? In this regard, 2 less than 2 points to the findings of the National Institute of Moralology, which says: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. First of all, the National Institute of Morality holds that pregnancy breakers can become viable outside the mother's body, and second, the tension between this bill and the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should be taken into consideration. Here are basic questions and opinions about the embryo's moral standing, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination rights of women who need deep and enlightened discussions in society. In the above regard, 2 less damages the bill's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u99	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, the way he envisions the outcome of what he calls father to this decision - making process. He will have a denial of the woman's decision to have an abortion in reality. A senator to whom two must come? Will he be able to prevent pregnancy from becoming a female with whom he might be raped? Or is it that a married woman is married to her husband and has authority over her body? I was just wondering how it was. A senator envisions enforcing the two parties'common right of decision over one person's body. How does he see it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u100	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. It is clear to me that in the case of rape, abortion should be appropriate. That's my opinion. [[Up front.]] What? [[Up front.]] There's a senator here who has opinions on this matter too. Was it perhaps she who laughed earlier? I think it is quite clear that there is a very big responsibility to be placed on the mother - to bear one of these responsibilities. I realize this is very difficult. In this relationship, I remind you of what the Institute of Moralology says, that this needs to be discussed very well. I don't necessarily have the answers to everything the senator asks about here. It's a very difficult question. Of course, I wondered, " When there are 1,000 medical abortions, then perhaps 960 must be from some other source. ' If there's a disagreement between couples with it, I think it can matter. Even if a man does not control his wife's body or a foreigner, in such cases he must be spoken of. I don't think abortion can be a contraceptive. I think we're totally set. There won't be a life unless two parties come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u101	Mr. President. Yes, these are difficult questions because it is difficult to answer how one person should be able to decide for another person what will happen to her body for nine months. Whether they are married, happy, or unhappy, whether they have been raped or perhaps only 13 - year - olds who had sex for the first time. Hv. A senator suggests that the government should be a problem for prospective mothers rather than allow them to have an abortion. Does he want to help 13 - year - olds become mothers if they don't want to? How about 14? But 15-year-olds? Should the boys who childd them decide with them whether they trust to walk with a child - if we assume that they have not been raped? Should they be allowed to join in it? Or is it the girl's father who, in the case of decisioning what happens to her daughter's body? I wondered how much Patriarchy is behind this committee's opinion. Senator. Hv. A senator speaks of the procreation of pregnancy breaking. Hv. A senator seems to have strong opinions about what is justified pregnancy breaking in women with whom he does not know anything. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A senator's opinion is of all these non-pregnant men who have sex with all these 1,000 women each year who have a pregnancy break. What is their responsibility before that? Why are you so focused? A senator does not see talking to his sexual brothers about stopping all these unwanted pregnancies? Why don't we just take a little condom action, huh? Senator? Because the only ones who can actually stop an unintentional pregnancy are the men - simply letting it go so unwary. But let us continue to talk about women who are pregnant with evil intentions, not with good intentions, that they do not respect the sacred life created by God. I wondered: " What if they get some sort of god - god calling that they should not wear this child? [[The president calls.]] Can they do that? What's good enough. A senator when it comes to extending justice to women over his own body?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u102	A respectable president. I wasn't going to talk about the nightlife in Reykjavík, how men or women act here at night. I don't think there's anything new under the sun in it. When it's going on, it's just both parties involved. Usually, both parties are involved and are responsible for doing so. I know some examples of very young girls having children, and I know how they are today. [[Yeah.]] I don't think any man would have wanted them children to come into the world. Because it's always the most beautiful story: 'She's pregnant.' It's amazing to sit here and watch these senators who cram into the air, laugh at you, and talk that way about these very sensitive matters - they're very sensitive to much of the nation, for a lot of people who can't have children. I think that talking about this is just the personal affairs of women who are pregnant and if they get pregnant, it's some guy in town to blame. It's just not an acceptable discussion, talking about it on these lines. You can laugh at this if you want. But I just don't think it's an acceptable topic to be talking about the nightlife and stopping some call with condoms. I just think it's a good idea. This may prevent some of those 960 pregnancies that do not seem to be very timely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u103	Mr. President. It's interesting to review a committee opinion from a smaller part of the health committee and to perceive a narrow angle that I at least detect. An incident in the discussion of a committee party. I have to agree with the senator that the beautiful thing about life is that there are many coloured flowers in the garden. That, too, Mr. President, can be the worst thing about life. There are very different flowers in the garden, and some flowers are total weeds that employ other people's violence. The senator came in and claimed that, of course, pregnancy breakers should be allowed in the case of rape. Then I can't help asking the senator if anyone who wishes for a pregnancy break has to prove the rape and how it does. Does she do this by reporting police reports? Does the charge have to be made? Is there a need to have been judged? How is this going to last within a nine - month, 40 - week pregnancy? How does the senator imagine that this is to be accomplished? How does the senator imagine that it should be effective when a drug addict comes to the doctor for 20 weeks, does not know that she was pregnant, and how well the embryo has developed in an elephant that has been hard to eat for the past 20 weeks? How does the senator imagine that a doctor should accept such a request from a woman who finally wishes for a pregnancy break when she knows she may be pregnant?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u104	I thank you for the starter of this inquiry. I must now admit that I do not know who is being led into this discussion. At this moment, I can hardly answer with shame as to exactly how to react to the alleged rape. I think the lawgiver must deal with it in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u105	You're the lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u106	Will you answer that, please?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u107	I said, you're the lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u108	That's what I'm saying. It is in my opinion that there are a lot of questions that will take longer to answer. I cannot answer such a question as to what the doctor should do when a woman comes in and says that she was raped. How on earth am I supposed to be able to answer that? It's natural enough to suck, but I can tell a manager that I've talked to a drug in a very difficult situation and thought about having an abortion. She now says that, fortunately, she never did, on viable children. It is the sacred life. It's not possible for a general opinion in this house to put this case black/white up, it's some matter in which it's a struggle between men and women. That's very tasteless. You can talk about it in the coffee shop, but in front of the world, you can't talk like that, there's some war here between men and women, and you put it up, saying that it's just the men that are to blame and that they have nothing to do with it. It's not that simple. Those who have lost children know what it's like.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u109	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I just want to, because we have a place to speak, to correct this. I made no attempt to set this up as if this were some sort of conversation between men and women, some sort of controversy between men and women. I wish that the senator would withdraw it if he was putting it in my mouth. Since the Senator opposes the approval of this bill and having his place on the welfare committee, and I assume he was present, he attended a committee meeting, when the experts came before the committee, I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he has, since he is so decisive, that, of course, pregnancy breakers should be allowed in the case of rape, asked the experts how to prove it, or whether it is enough for the woman to separate from rape. It's not trivial, it's not minor. Losing a child is not a minor matter. Also, applying for pregnancy is not a minor matter. No one's saying that. Hence, it will also be a very strange discussion when this is arranged so that there are two persons who can and should make a decision together, when, as the senator himself says in the article, the flowers vary in the park. In some places, weeds involving violence, even in a marriage. Some women have been unable to get out of the home in time to request a pregnancy break because she is a prisoner in her own home. [[The president calls.]] This is what I say from my experience, from my career as a lawyer in Iceland, from an emergency agency for victims of sexual abuse and domestic violence. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to draw up this picture, that children and fetuses are not just capable of happy marriages or relationships.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u110	A respectable president. There was a lot of discussion about this subject on the committee. I asked a lot of experts who came before the committee questions. I do not specifically remember asking how to prove proof of rape. I don't know what I'm talking about. I admit it. I asked a lot about screening. Here's why. A senator talking about weeds in the community. Should they be screened for them? Will we screen for the alcoholics?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u111	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u112	No, that's what they discussed on the committee. Schmucks. Medical science is on its way, and you're talking about that there's too many weeds in the community that... [[Up front.]] I'm trying to understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u113	I never said too much weeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u114	You said there was a weed in the community, in the park, you said that. You're talking about it in particular... [[Up front.]] [[Up top: Ásmundur, stop turning.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u115	Let's stay away from conversation in the councilroom. Hv. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u116	It's a very special place to have a word with these people. But you just said there was a weed in the park. Of course, when a woman wears a child, she cannot tell if the child will be a good or difficult person. We're always seeing that it happens. There are babies born here who are very difficult individuals. If I get it right, then there's a why. One senator has to talk about the need to screen for these difficult people. [[Foreground on: No. Will you stop lying? You're lying, Ásmundur, once more.]] I said, if I understand correctly...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u117	Silence in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u118	You're now the biggest liar in the councilroom. Hairsick at the Senate Hall. [[Take it up once more.]] [[The president calls.]] You're the only liar in the councilroom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u119	I'm not doing this. I want to testify. This is another time this senator lies on me. I wish to bear the charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u120	Mr. President. Once again, the senator allows himself to lie on me about what I am supposed to have said in a public talk. I'm not gonna sit here and say that a member of the Independence Party, Ásmundur Friðriksson, standing here in a pita and saying I should have been screening for the weeds. When I'm talking about weeds in the park, I'm referring to his committee view of different flowers in the park, the violent men who use women, rape them, and the embryos. I never talked about the screening of some unfortunate people. And the senator can only own it himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u121	I'd like to reiterate that we address here with the word "respect" when we address each other. But, hey. Senator, 4th. The district of South Africa, Ásmundur Friðriksson, has wished to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u122	A respectable president. I think we're here to be the senator or me - we're obviously missing each other. It referred to weeds in the garden. That's how I understood it, and that's what they said to me. But now it is said that the weeds in the garden are the builders. They are truly weeds. Haven't we been talking about the same weeds, I can't wait. A senator's apologies. But obviously we were talking about weeds that are not viable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u123	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee study to recommend a change in the bill to correct pregnancy break from the 3rd cut-off of the health committee. The bill suggests that abortion will be permitted until the end of week 22 of pregnancy. According to current legislation, abortion should preferably be performed before the end of the 12 weeks of gestation and never after 16 weeks, unless there are compelling medical reasons and life and the woman's health pose an increased risk of pregnancy and/or parturition or teratogenicity, genetic defects, or harm to the foetus. Since there are no such warnings in the bill, the bill allows abortion in all cases until the end of week 22. A third of my things consider this dilatation authority to be completely undefeated moral wrong and violates the rights of life to unborn babies. At the end of week 22, the pregnancy of the unborn child is more than halfway. It will only be 18 weeks before the baby's birth based on the full pregnancy. It is far from beyond doubt that premature birth at the end of week 22 means that the model cannot survive. This is an operation that ends the life of an unborn baby that may survive the baby at this stage of pregnancy. Doctors swear to save and protect life if possible, not to destroy it. This excessive evacuation of abortion laws violates the conviction and morals of all those who respect the right of the unborn child to life. In current legislation, i.e. at 12 weeks unless there are compelling medical reasons and life and the woman's health are put at greater risk with prolonged pregnancy and/or parturition. It is widely recognized that in virtually every case women are well aware of their pregnancy before the 12th week of pregnancy, so it should be the exception if women are unable to look for an abortion in advance. Of course, 3 smaller things respect the woman's self - determination and control over her own body, but in this respect the limits to the rights of life for the unborn child. At that time, a 3rd smaller portion is totally opposed to the conceptal usage on which the bill is based. An abortion is a term that reflects the action involved. The term pregnancy break, however, is an attempt to overlook the severity of the operation and to put it in the suit of standard medical procedures so as to overlook the possibility of ending the life of an unborn child in the womb. The fact is that according to surgeon information, 1,044 abortions were performed in 2017, or generally four abortions, each effective day of the year. A woman named Tani was denied her surgery. No, no, no, no, A third smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the word "Bible Breaks " in 1 mg. 1st par. and everywhere else on the bill comes, in the appropriate dentage: abortion. 2. Number 3. 2.g. Put it this way: Abortion: Administration or other medical procedure performed at the request of a woman to put an end to the life of an fetus. The Four of us. par.Unable to a. Instead of ◯22.κ, 1st and 2 mg. Come: 12. b. 2nd matter. 1.mg. It is stated: Any abortion should always be carried out as soon as possible. c. After 1st mg. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: Irrigate healthcare professionals prior to implementation based on Article 14. Healthcare Professional Relation, No. 34/2012, make sure a woman has the rights at the time. 1.mg. The people's party is totally in the process of making these adjustments. As we have seen in the discussion, this is a very sensitive subject. This delicate matter is that it tells itself that it must be terrible that someone has to face the decision to destroy life. If you put it into context, it is not really a matter of man's making decisions about life and death for some creature, whether a fetus, a fully formed child, or anything else. We sometimes ignore the fact that we are a little strange about hypocrisy in people's lives. Where's the limit? Because we have to figure out - I just finished reading it -- that there were 1,044 abortions in one year. Of these, about 40 were made for medical reasons. We're arguing about whether to take in cases of rape, cases where people have drug problems. It's just a little bit of this. What we are to ask ourselves is, " Why on earth are we destroying 1,000 fetuses? ' What is it in our national soul that causes it, and how is it that we have created such a society? We have never, and have never had the right to destroy, except, as I say, if life and death are a matter. I also object to the fact that during the treatment of the committee, who had experts in their field of committees - and I started to ask simple questions: If you stand before the doctor, and he says, "Hey, there's something wrong with the fetus. You're about to have an abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u124	The doctor won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u125	- He does, and he's done it, and I've been in it, so I'm not saying anything. It sucks to know that people decide to have an abortion on the basis that the doctor says something is wrong. What happened? So, what process will begin? Is there a medical evaluation of the foetus's presence of defects? No, not in one case. Is it written what happens to the fetus? What's the process after this? There's no such thing as this. It tells me we're wrong. We start with the wrong end, we're opening this way and expanding it. I can't believe we're going to let us do that because we're supposed to start at the other end, i.e. to prevent abortion from being required. It's our job, with free protection. We need to make sure of that. Teaching. Let's start at that end, but let's not start expanding things where it's been shown black in white - moving it from 12 weeks to 22 weeks. What should it do? A woman in Iceland has been denied abortion. So I don't see any way to figure out the purpose of this assignment. We must also realize when the fetus will be viable. Is that normal in this context: If we go to the hospital, and there are two clinics next door? Another person may be spending his life after 22 weeks of pregnancy, but in the other living room, all of the advice that was born 22 weeks ago? Isn't there something wrong with this, or is it just normal? I began to think about it today when I was thinking about this matter how strange our views are about life and life. We were discussing the rights of fathers earlier. Fathers in divorce have generally lost much of their ability to associate with or control their children. But in the case of an embryo, fathers should not have a right, not even if they are married. They just don't have anything to do with it. Is that normal? I mean, where's the equality? Isn't it supposed to work in all directions? Or is it just to work at times and not between? I know that it must be extremely difficult to face the decision to have an abortion because there is something wrong with the fetus, that the child is likely to be born disabled, and that he needs to live under those circumstances. Could I have made that decision some 40 years ago? ' No. No one's supposed to have to make these kinds of decisions. It must be really hard to choose. I don't think we have this right, to take life, except for very well prepared reasons and good reasoning. Yes, it is, for example. Like, in rape and other situations, whether the life of a child or a mother is in danger, we have to intervene, and we do. We even intervene and engage in abortion in an attempt to save it, so it is born healthy. Hence, when we say that it is best to have someone decide to have an abortion, we are opposed to ourselves. It's just not all right. It is a difficult decision and should be a difficult decision. We have to figure out what we're talking about, I don't think we're talking about a fetus anymore when we reach week 22. We've stopped talking about the fetus, as far as I know, after week 16. I think we're talking about a baby. Let us put it in a certain context. I've often thought, " Wait, are we ready to accept capital punishment? ' I'm just asking. Are we ready to do that? In what case would we be ready to do so? Who Should Make the Decision? I don't like it. I'm talking about men who have committed gross crimes. Still, I couldn't make that decision. Yet I couldn't justify my right, even if the crime was committed to me, killing the person. But in this case, we're talking about an unborn child. That is why we must be careful. We need to make sure that in all cases this is an emergency and the last resort we're going to take. I've been through reviews at the bill. In most cases, people make a comment that is contrary, and in most cases, people are praying for us to think better, to think better, to consider better, that we are better off in the law, because we have to realize that even though we believe that medical science has come a long way, it is not infallible. It's proved absolutely true. I'm also asking about this lack of registration. When a doctor points out that something is wrong with a child and that it is destroyed, it is done in that case to prevent the post - trauma when it may be found that there was nothing wrong. In this case, the doctor may be responsible to have suggested that he spend his life. I wouldn't want to be in their position, not for a minute, not one second. That's why I say we have to be careful with this, and I think we're supposed to postpone this bill. We're supposed to say no, and we're going to win it better. We are to dive in every corner of this matter and make sure that all stones are rolled around and looked under them so that there is nothing underneath that does not fall but to protect life, as it should be ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u126	President. There were so many things in this talk that I don't really know where to begin. It seems to me that there's so much inconsistencies in what you say. Senator. Of course, he speaks of a third memory of things that are worth women's self - determination and control over their own body. But at the same time, he intends to limit the right of women to have a pregnancy break - and I may just want to hear from it. A senator's ability to understand this correctly is to suggest that if a woman does not break her pregnancy by week 12, or if there is no strong medical cause and life and health of a woman is put at greater risk with prolonged pregnancy or part of birth, only a woman should be forced to have her baby. I get it. Is that the result of this process?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u127	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry, and my answer is: Yes, clearly and strongly, unless there is, of course, some danger to a child or a mother. I believe that when this is the time, there's a very strong reason for this. The answer is: Yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u128	All right. It is quite a view to force women to have children that they do not trust; it does not matter what the situation is; it should only force them to have their children. However, it is not possible to talk about that, of course, a woman's self - determination rights and authority over her own body should be respected. It doesn't rhyme. It is best to be honest and say - yes, we're just going to make this decision for the woman, that she will be forced to have her baby if she does not realize that she is pregnant until a little late or has not trusted to break her pregnancy sooner or whatever the reasons might be. [[The point is, it's right here...]] I would also like to make an issue that this discussion has included a number of personal experiences. We cannot base laws on personal experience. [[Up front.]] It's crazy to talk that way. But I don't see anything else - and I like what you're doing. A senator, so I hope that he will respect my conclusion - that there is tremendous distrust, contempt, of women who will show up in this opinion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u129	The president realizes that it is a short talk period, but he asks for it at what time. Councilmen say they respect the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u130	A respectable president. I just deny that I don't respect women. Because I think - and we know - that in most cases, these abortions have gone beyond this time. There are exceptional cases - and to plan to pin it on you - that just because there are exceptional cases is a man with some kind of fragility. It doesn't make sense. It just doesn't make any sense. I direct it to the fatherhouses. So I think, and I keep saying that by the end of week 16, we're not talking about foster care. We're talking about a baby. We're talking about life. It's our duty to protect it, not destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u131	Mr. President. I'd like a little better explanation from what. A senator on the line he claims to draw between the woman's self - determination and the life of an unborn child and other comments he has made to fall here, including in cases of abortion or pregnancy following rape. A member of the council said in his talk to him that we would be there to postpone this speech and that we should do so again. But that's not the motive for a senator's opinion of the committee. He's not going to give it to the state of state. He's laying the goal for his own 12 weeks' life support programme, or child or embryo, that doesn't look viable. I wondered, because of what. A senator mentioned 16 weeks ago: Is there something wrong with him where that limit should be found? In some cases, they are now in the 22nd week. I wonder what. A senator realized that by his adjustments, he is severely pressing the right of women to health care from the present time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u132	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. No, I'm not crowding at anything. We have legislation today, and it's cool, no one is denied, 1,044 abortions a year, 40 for medical reasons. It's the other, the thousand abortions we're discussing. I don't understand why they don't call any alarm alarms. There's nothing to tell us about the need to change. Why does this right have to be so that there is one person, the woman, finished - up to the 22nd week? For what purpose? I ask, "Why does it have to be changed if the other one works so well and nobody has been denied?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u133	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has found the point in his case, and he is: "Why does a woman need self - determination when it comes to carrying a child or not? That's what it's all about right now. A senator, whether or not a woman will be allowed to decide for herself if she is pregnant or not. That's what it's all about. I'm asking why. A senator: How does he picture the man's appearance in this? If a husband who is happily married wants his wife to walk with a child she does not want to walk with, why? A senator imagines that police would come and get the woman and make sure she doesn't harm herself, that she won't get rid of the fetus? Will she be forced to walk with a child she does not want to accompany? How can you tell? A senator who enforces man's will? So if we turn back and say that a man wants his wife to break up. How does he envision the man's will? How should two parties come to a conclusion, to a mutual decision about one of their bodies? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How should this be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u134	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I'm just saying, if it was so complicated, as you're saying, the police and I don't know what and what, then there wouldn't be an abortion. I don't see how these 1,000 abortions had been performed. It claims to itself, and I'm just hoping that in the case of married couples, they would have discussed the matter and concluded that the person is having an abortion, somehow they have reached that conclusion. [[Up front.]] I've never heard of a police call or a fight. I don't think it's registered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u135	The woman is in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u136	- What?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u137	How do you want to do this? To force some...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u138	There's nothing to force one or no one. We're not in a community to force anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u139	You want to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u140	There are 1,044 abortions, and no one is denied. [[Up front.]] So, who are we trying to get out of here? I'm saying we should make sure we don't expand this so much that there's gonna be some method of contraception. [[To the point: There's the distrust.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u141	Wait a minute. Councilmen to keep sound in the court and give speakers the opportunity to complete a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u142	A respectable president. I'm on the welfare board with a bit of wind. So I recognize some of the concerns presented here. I think it's perfectly normal for people to have strong opinions about the case where their disability and women's prejudices remain. The changes made with this bill are improving - but there is no dilation, contrary to what the senator says. As noted, local laws, such as this bill, allow abortion up to week 22. On the other hand, I cannot understand why the senator puts up tribulation in his decision to make changes. Because the current law allows a woman to choose an abortion up to week 16, which is crammed in at week 12. The Senator mentioned the 16th week in his speech and answer, but if the bill had to be passed by the change in his proposal, there would be no mention in the 16th week of this law. [[The president calls.]] What does the senator base on the fact that existing laws are under protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u143	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Yes, that is why, as we would say, in all cases, I would say in ninety - one percent and some percent of cases, a decision about this abortion should be made by week 12. I think everyone would agree that it would be best if such a decision could be made in any case before week 12. Surely we can agree on that. The further... I say for my part that I can never agree to a week 22nd. It's just not in my picture. I just think it's totally out of the maps, unfortunately. That's just my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u144	A respectable president. I allowed it to happen that after all he said about the medical profession and the distrust he has for her, I didn't completely understand why I had to trust doctors better than his wife to decide whether a pregnancy is interrupted or not. I'll leave it between parts. Because I would like to ask about these 12 weeks that the senator is offering, which is a tribulation from the current right of about four weeks. In times of global struggle for women's fertility freedom, women's right to decide whether, when, and how to have children - how can it really be said that the people's party wants to squeeze women's right to pregnancy break away from what is right today? Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u145	A respectable president. In the 10th. current law says: It should be carried out as soon as possible and preferably before the end of the 12 weeks of gestation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u146	Read the next line. 16 weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u147	It should never be carried out after the 16th week of pregnancy, unless there are compelling medical reasons and life and the woman's health are subject to an increased risk with prolonged pregnancy and/or delivery. An abortion should also be allowed after 16 weeks, with a high probability of teratogenicity, genetic defects, or foetal damage. Such provisions are only allowed at the request of a written committee. Yes, yes, but here we are talking about 12 weeks and 16. Why, then, 22? What's the argument for 22? Explain it to me and reason it out - why 22 weeks? [[Up front.]] I haven't gotten that out yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u148	Answer: Why 12? That was one question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u149	This is very normal because it is the medical reference [[No.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u150	An enchanting law is 16, Guðmundur.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u151	Mr. President. There are some things I would like to talk to you about. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, including his idea of tribulation on the existing legislation. I'd love to get some. A senator explained to me what was in his speech to compare the death penalty with the breakdown of pregnancy. I feel that it is most inappropriate and disrespectful to all those women and girls who have been pregnant. I don't think it's necessary for a senator at the International Parliament to speak in the way he does, to compare a pregnancy break with the death penalty. The decision to spend your life is terrible, though. Senator. I can assure you what. A senator that is once so that pregnancy break is not a fun or easy decision made by women and girls to play fun or to use it as a contraceptive, as noted. Senator. Besides, I can't see that this comparison is consistent with the sentence from the dog. A senator that respects the self - determination of women and their authority over his own body. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of the sentence presented in his committee sheet: It is generally recognized that in virtually every case women are well aware of their pregnancy before the 12th week of their pregnancy. [[The president calls.]] I ask: What about the women and girls who live under difficult social conditions? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How can it be? A senator claims that they know about their pregnancy 12 weeks ago? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u152	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I wasn't minimizing one or no one. I was talking about that in any case it must be very difficult to decide who should live and who should not. This must be the hardest thing in the case of an unborn child. I say for my part that a 22 - week - old child is a child, it can survive outside the body -- that's for sure. [[Foreground on: No.]] There's all the formation of that child, like feet, hands, organs. It's all here. All that remains is the growth of the lungs and the growth of the lungs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u153	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator took weeks of hairs about 23 or 22 weeks, and he did not respond to the question I raised to him about the claim presented in his committee list that it is generally recognized that in nearly all cases women are fully aware of their pregnancy before the 12th week of pregnancy and should be unaware that women cannot seek the abortion that is before that date. Once again, I ask: What about the young girls who have had to break up and those women who are in extremely difficult social situations, how do they feel about this? As indicated in the majority of the committees, because of their social situation, they are not always able to discern whether they are pregnant until late pregnancy. I also want to use my later answer to ask him about his opposition to the term pregnancy break and his proposal, his change of proposal, to break out pregnancy and replace the word abortion with the bill. [[The president calls.]] But I hope we can what? A senator answered me the first answer he did not do in his answer to the above. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u154	A respectable president. I did not answer that question because time was just over. Of course, I do not know the exceptional cases that a woman does not know that she is pregnant, but there must be exceptional cases when a woman does not know that she has become pregnant by week 12, there must be exceptional situations. I can't imagine it being 900 or 1,000 cases that it happened. So it must be. Pregnancy break. I say, why do I want to have an abortion? Pregnancy breaches make me feel that there is a simple word that implies a simple operation, an attempt to enhance the beauty of the project. Why is this not an abortion? It's an abortion. There's something being destroyed out there, but something's not being broken. It's being destroyed. They're killing lives. That is why it is an abortion. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u155	Mr. President. I'm going to say a few words on this matter. First, I would like to say that the aim of this law to ensure the autonomy of women who want to be pregnant and to respect that custody by granting women safe access to health care, in accordance with the regulations of this law, and insure their capital custody over their own body is something I hold 100%. I'm an emissary officer on a welfare committee who has discussed this matter and has examined it carefully. There were 60 reviews, and I have to say, in a sense, I am grateful to the more than 1,000 women who did not send in a special statement but had the review of Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, which had a positive attitude toward the case. Otherwise, we would have had 1,060 envelopes, more than 1,040 positive ones, and that would have been a lot of reading in addition to everything else. But it may have been an outcast. At the beginning of this case, the highest will be the case. Healthcare Minister to the consultation puzzle for women's uncircumcised documents until the end of week 18. It was a fine case then, it was a good thing, a positive thing about women's self - determination, but, nevertheless, it was a measure of interference, the right to break the pregnancy rights from the present. Then comes the bill. Ministers into the welfare committee and then to the 22 week maximum, and that is the same limit of time as the currently existing law. Women are confined to their self - determination rights. However, that time limit, 18 weeks on the other hand, and 22 weeks on the other hand, led me to study evidence to see where my opinion on these issues would be. According to these figures and the data provided by the Health Committee, which specifically refers to a case report for Ministers in its time period, there is no evidence that, whether in Canada, there is no time limit or in the UK and the Netherlands, where they are similar to what is being proposed, there is no evidence that there is a later pregnancy break in pregnancy or a multiple pregnancy break. As shown in the case of what? On the contrary, the head of the welfare committee earlier is evidence that it is moving further. This question has been asked from a talker: Why these 22 weeks? Based on these data, I can agree with the question: Why would there be a time limit if this is evolution? We're talking about the self - determination rights of women. I'd also like to make a comment in the context of that comment that those here have mentioned how difficult this decision is, an overly burdensome decision, seems to be more concerned about health care professionals, and then talk about women using it as a method of contraception. What's that supposed to mean? What a difficult decision for women! Probably a difficult decision for some health care professionals, but especially for women. I'm not going to stress that we're going to change this to no time limit, because I accept the opinion of a greater part of the social committee. However, I wanted to say here that this is what the figures tell us. Then I wanted to come in again. I've listened to that question quite often, up to that in the form of claims, if it's not all unnecessary. It's okay as it is. Despite the fact that the Law letter as it is today is the mildest of all, although we have any updates, not many women have received rejection on request for a pregnancy break. Then we can just have it the way it is, and we're all happy. However, it is a fact that the need for a receipt from someone else to meet the requirements for making a decision that primarily affects one's own life, regardless of whether the request is accepted or not. Just having to go through this process makes the woman's right to decide. Besides, it's dangerous, I'm afraid to say, especially at the times in which we now live, to rely on public attitudes in the community to save things, that it doesn't have to be updated out - of - date because it's either way. It can happen very quickly that dominant forces stop applying popular liberal views in society, and it is good to have the law frame in place, as it were, legally guaranteeing that women will have their own self - determination rights. It is harder to fantasize when these rights have been guaranteed by law. I believe that this bill, if it happens to be law, will have a very positive effect for women who need one or another to go through the enormously difficult process that is for them many to wonder about and then make a decision about pregnancy break. I'm sure that doesn't make anyone funny. I am convinced that once the law has been changed so that women themselves have this right, don't have to sit down and file their case or ask for permission, it will be easier for them to do so. This does not mean that they will be helped if they wish to do so. The same is true of most people. It's a tough decision. Then, briefly. It's like there's always someone who makes a decision about breaking a pregnancy, we're just talking about who it is. Pregnancy violations are not performed unless someone decides to do so. The changes presented here, and I support the fact that it is the undisputed woman who has the right to make that decision. It is available for education and counseling if it does, in addition to the necessary and normal health care that this procedure calls for, but it is its decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. One of the stakes, or organisations, who sent in reviews to the bill was the National Institute for Moral Research at the University of Iceland. It says that the Agency considers this to be dangerous because there are a number of ethical issues that need deep and enlightened discussions in the community. As many as 22 weeks of pregnancy as 22 weeks of pregnancy, a social institution of ethics considers abortion to be risky. The Agency then suggests that the deadline will be reduced to 18 weeks. At the same time, it is emphasized that the disabled fetus has the right to life and to the wrong, and the Agency points to the support of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. What I wanted to ask you. A senator's opinion of this is whether or not. A senator does not consider this to be an important reason why much greater and more enlightenment is being made in the community. Counts 'em out. A senator says that this is just enough to be discussed at the council? The public has indeed had access to this through the review of the committee. But in view of this statement: Is it not proper to take a much deeper and wider discussion of the subject in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u157	President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for his objection. It is clear that this is one of the things that I find most important in this discussion. The fact is, though, that we have been discussing this for 50 years. I don't think we'll get much further through the discussion. I don't even know where she should go. It seems to me they've set themselves up in quite such a good company on the matter of allowing this or not. The timeliness somehow end up in there, and you hear as the discussion continues that they are often some kind of disguise, often come out of nowhere when you talk to people for a long time that they're just against pregnancy break or not. So I think that accepting the bill and it will be by law that women have their own bodies in this respect as well as in other ways, they will not harm anyone's moral discussion of these matters, no matter what. However, I can fully agree that what is interesting to discuss is just the situation in which disabled people live in the community. I'd like to refer here to one fine sentence from a book I'm looking at, a history of genetics from science and personal protection: 'It's not a fault, it's the result of different individual and environmental qualities. That is where our emphasis should be when we are talking about disabled individuals. Numbers I've investigated about pregnancy breakdown, abortion - whether the word that is now used - here in Iceland today: A great smaller part of them is due to some sort of foetal defects compared to these numbers I've seen. This is something that I think is a much bigger social issue, how we have a head over these individuals. I don't think it justifying the fact that we use half of the nation the violence that I feel is not giving them the right to do this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator made it clear that the matter is controversial in the community. I'd like, for example. Just to mention, for example, the information about the bill in Iceland's Medical Association. Medical society is opposed to the granting of a pregnancy break-in until the end of week 22. The Medical Association does not have a reason for Iceland's walking on this bill beyond any other northern country has seen a reason to do so and put the Medical Association in place to continue its implementation. There are two lines of reasoning. First, the Medical Association claims that in current legislation, the time limit is set in such a way that they always allow women to get pregnant; and then the Society points to the Northlands, that we are not to stand out as different. As we know, we often compare ourselves with the northern countries. But now this review is retracted. What does that tell us? It tells us that there is much disagreement in the medical profession, among the doctors, on this matter. I think that's what's basically the message that's being drawn back. So there is controversy in many parts of the community. It's not just public. It is also among the health - care professionals and doctors that we can see here. Counts 'em out. Is that not a concern for a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u159	Mr. President. Yes, thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I know that this opinion comes forward and is drawn back--and I have no idea, rather than, I think, why. Senator, why it was. They may, for example, come to their conclusions. Only on the question of whether there is a clear disagreement, if that is the cause, or differences between doctors and health care professionals on this matter, I will not be concerned with telling them my opinion, with full respect for doctors and other health experts, that this is not their case. There's also been a significant discussion at the Hall that we're about to allow pregnancy to break, and we're doing this. We don't have a problem with that. We're talking about women being allowed to decide this, each woman's choice, one, and the other. We're not doing this. This is not our business, making laws, cutting women's self - determination rights - over the heads of people in general, which seldom - and not experts either. So it's not a discussion that's confusing me with anyone. I wondered about this ethical approach. I think she's ready for now. I believe that as I went through and statistics show that we won't, by accepting this bill and making it legal, women making the decision but not the experts in town, I don't think--or rather, I'm going to turn it around: I think that this journey will be for good and is more likely to accept the opposite sides of this matter in society. I think we just have to let it show if I'm right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u160	Mr. President. I come here to describe the same or similar viewpoints in this case as the reviews of Iceland's National Institute of Moralology. Toward the end of that discussion, it says, with permission of the president: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. I agree with this and for many reasons, especially the fact that this is not just some medical remedy but also moral, emotional, religious, cultural, and even other factors. I would also like to object to the sense I feel that some speakers today are a measure of some kind of support to women's freedom of choice for how many weeks of pregnancy would feel before the loss of abortion freedom. The discussion about this is not a race for freedom of women. My main concern in this talk is to encourage caution, and I am concerned with giving more modesty and consideration to the viewpoints of those who are opposed to this matter, as it is, for sincere and emotional reasons. I, by permission of the President, would like to quote another chapter of the University National Institute of Moralology. He's this one, with President's permission: In other words, a very detailed and good report on the bill has little to do with the moral condition of the fetus. It is true in this context to draw out that aspect more accurately. As pregnancy passes, the moral status of the fetus is generally considered to be stronger. Infusions that aim to break the pregnancy and thus abortion become more difficult and morally questionable as the term goes on. At some level, a break in pregnancy is no longer morally justified. Where this line is drawn is a difficult moral estimate. Law No. 25/1975 was exposed to 12 weeks of pregnancy and additional allowed exceptions from the rule. This time limit is considered not limited to the period when a woman can make a decision about pregnancy or not a pregnancy; it is also the moral line at which she agrees to draw and mark the right of an embryo for protection. Most people believe that a fetus that has the ability to live an independent life outside the mother's body is entitled to protect itself regardless of her mother's will or anyone else (unless her life or mother's health is in danger or the hope for the fetus). In such cases, the fetus (the child) is viewed as not accepting its moral value from the will of the mother or of the others who in general stand for it and thus have the right to life. Non-ternal life is in a report for weeks 21 and 6 days. It provides the basis for the 22 week reference line shown in the bill. The question can be raised in the form of a question, says the University Institute of Moralology - ◯ Whether it is not too close to the bounds mentioned in this article. I would like to quote again the final words of the University National Institute of Morality, by permission of the president: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. First of all, the National Institute of Morality holds that a pregnancy break is dangerous until the 22nd week, since the fetus may become viable outside the mother's body. Second, consider the tension between this bill and the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Here are basic questions and opinions about the embryo's moral standing, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination rights of women who need deep and enlightened talk in society. This review is thought - provoking. In view of this and by this reasoning, which I most agree with, I would simply like to encourage a slower review of this matter and, preferably, more modest than I feel in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u161	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I felt that it was important to come up here because we're talking about the embryo's viability and mention that it was shown that in the Land Hospital, a neonate doctor there, the embryo's viability is viewed from week 23. They try hard to save children from that week on. Children for Week 22 are not viable, although there are peripheral events outside the world where children have lived. The youngest is 21 weeks plus six days, but all of these children are seriously damaged. This is the information I've been given. Actually, this is the key to this decision. I agree that somewhere we have to set the boundaries and determine them, and the embryo's life span is likely to be a good goal. This bill is based on it. It is important to be clear about the facts. Regarding how this case has been won, I took special consideration on the committee when the review came from the ethic, and we decided to take this case and took it very long. There were quite extraordinary numbers of visitors, we listened to all the voices and all the reviews, and there's nothing to rush this matter through. I think it's important that you do too. I say again, I've often said that in this discussion: As the situation is now, a woman can break her pregnancy at week 22 compared to current legislation. The change here is that we are making a decision right over our own body to the woman. It is not a doctor who decides on her behalf whether she may or may not break her pregnancy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u162	A respectable president. Yes, I'm not saying that I'm going to argue about it, and I'm not going to have a sense of where there's a line on the embryo's viability. I was simply referring to the views expressed by the National Institute of Moralology in Iceland that it might be more dangerous, I used the word more modest earlier, moving these limits just away from that impenetrable line that was drawn here, 21 weeks, and six days. It may not have to go so close to that line. That's in line with what I've said here in another way, in another way, my request or motivation is primarily that it will be a little slower and more modest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u163	President. Wait a minute. I'm sorry, but I didn't really ask any questions in my previous answer. I'm gonna ask them now because I hear what's going on. A senator has doubts about where to draw the line, that 22 weeks is too close to the 23 weeks that are considered the threshold for the embryo's viability. The reason for the 22 week limit includes The rights of women are there today under current legislation, but also that all experts who have come to us have said that it is important because of a very important 20 - week waste. There are very serious heart defects, central nervous system defects, kidney defects. It is in very few cases during this time that a woman breaks her pregnancy. However, these are situations that we have to meet, that are the opinion of the greater part, and that we need to meet those women. Then there are the women who are in very difficult social situations that we received special consideration about the committee, who have not been able to have a pregnancy break, who have been unable to request pregnancy break, who are either able to have children or go outside to seek medical care. We have received this information, and it is a professional expert opinion that it should be the right woman up to Week 22 to request a pregnancy break. Then I wonder, " If we don't base our decision-making and legislation on the professional opinion of experts, what do we build on it? ' There have been extraordinary amounts of emotion in this case. What should we build on? I might ask why. A senator to what he thinks is the most convenient thing to do when we're putting these laws and who to build, if not professional advice from a legal group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u164	A respectable president. I would like to make it clear that the comments I have made to make to this bill are not that I am questioning or questioning women's self - determination rights in this matter. I argued earlier that this was not just a medical solution. Hv. A senator asked what we should build if not our viewpoints and opinions are the main professional in this regard. Then I have to say, we're also supposed to build on people like those of Iceland's National Institute of Morality. This isn't that it's just a medical issue for me. These are not medical boundaries that are being withdrawn between the two weeks. These are also moral questions that we must answer. I don't think, with all due respect to the doctors who have expressed themselves on this and their organization, they're in a better position to answer that question than the one here or there. A senator who was pointing a question to me in those answers. I think it's moral. This is a political and moral question, so to speak. In other words, I don't think it's a medical solution. There may be other professional views, but only those that doctors have suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u165	Mr. President. I would like to begin with this discussion to make here a subject of a change in the term use proposed in the bill, i.e. that in place of the term abortion is now the term pregnancy cessation. I don't like the change, and I agree with the review of Iceland's bishop Agnes M. Sigurðardóttir. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The new concept does not refer in any way to the life that truly comes under the belt or to a new human being. According to our Christian faith, life is a sacred gift, a gift Guð gives, and a gift from Guð. It is man's responsibility to preserve it and to protect it as far as possible and to respect the privacy of the human race, creation, and the Creator. It is misleading to use this new concept in this delicate context, since the term does not refer to this growing new life. This is shown in the review of Iceland's bishop. I will take my heart to these words, as I have said before. It has to be said that, as with this new term, the focus is taken away from the fetus and is completely transferred to the mother. You might ask yourself, " Is my life being minimized as it was born in my mother's womb? ' This is a term that gives reason to believe that what is really happening is being softened. Life is being brought to an end, that is, undisputed. I want to move on next with what I choose to call abortion and external pressures. Young women who become inadvertently pregnant are many of the most pressure to have an abortion by their immediate, friends, and social environment. Under such circumstances and circumstances, where is the right to decide? Ask yourself: If the only solution for young girls who become unexpected pregnant is an abortion, is it not a women's self - determination right? In this regard, the European Council published a report in 2017 regarding the situation of women in the European labour market. In particular, the report suggests that in no circumstances employers are allowed to put pressure on women to have an abortion. Sadly, there are many other cases in Europe. In addition, the report emphasizes that employers are very supportive of pregnant women. However, despite this important European Council resolution, which is the scene of 47 European countries, including Iceland, there is a sad tendency to reduce the level of abortion. An example is the prime minister of health care to whom we speak here and allow abortion until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. Abortion is so late in pregnancy, it's very controversial in our society. Remember, in the womb of 12 weeks, all organs are created and will only grow. Those who support this bill have often mentioned a particular foetal defect that will not be discovered until the 20 weeks of waste. Therefore, this possibility must be readily available. In fact, however, there is another basis for a study conducted at the University of California, California, San Diego, U.S.A., 2013. The study reads: "Who would like an abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy? " There were interviews with 272 women throughout the United States who had had abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The conclusion was that a large number of foetuses were healthy, and those women did not have abortions because of serious foetal defects but because of social circumstances. This bill is allowing abortion throughout the 22nd week of pregnancy without any reason. I'm worried that this may offer such abuse as when a woman wants only to produce a second sex. The circumstances will arise, and they have occurred where a woman asks for an abortion because of sex or circumstances that change for her during pregnancy. Keep in mind, then, that the child is only days away from being viable. I repeat, a few days. I ask, Mr President, in view of this thing I've said here, is this bill really necessary? Are we not in a different position to meet these women? Add social support and facilitate adoption? In addition, since the facts of the matter, according to the surgeon's figures, do no women in this country have been denied abortion at 20 weeks of pregnancy if there is a serious birth defect? It is the government's duty to ensure that a matter is properly informed before a decision is made. This involves careful administrative practices. Similarly, the quality of health care that a person seeking the ministry is sufficiently informed as to what it involves and what the outcome may be, since such procedures are in place when patients are prepared for surgery and other medical procedures. Let's just move in this context to what the bill says, that it is being backed up by the woman's self - determination rights. At that time, it has the highest. A health minister puts great emphasis on this. Mr. President. It's not just about women's rights, as far as I'm concerned. It is extremely serious to perform 1,000 abortions a year, as is done in this country and more than that. There is a great need for additional instruction on responsible sex and contraception to be free of charge. For the council, the bill says that contraception will be in a lower tax level in terms of respect. This is an important step in the right direction, and hopefully the bill will be a law, but the first transmission of the bill is why. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir. In current legislation, women must consult a social worker before deciding to have an abortion. However, the bill assumes that the counseling is optional, i.e. not obliged to consult with social advisers. Undeniably, in a bill that adds to the woman's right to make its own decision, the advice should be released. And ask yourself, " How does making an informed decision rhyme with making? ' Studies have shown that abortion can have negative consequences for women, both mentally and physically. These studies refute the claims of certain members of Congress, mentioned at 1 Corinthians. The matter here at the conference that abortion has little or no effect on women's mental and physical health. Studies in Finland, Denmark, and the United States show that women's general mortality is higher in those who have had an abortion during their lives than those who do not. They showed that in 20% of the cases where an abortion was performed either by surgery or medication, it resulted in serious side effects later in life such as infertility and abortion. In the United States, the increased mortality rate was linked to self - destructive behaviour, depression, and other unhealthy life - styles, resulting from abortions. The health minister is the first commander of the bill. It is presented with the approval of the government of the left green, independent party and forwarding party. The bill is presented in spite of considerable opposition at the root of the Independence Party and the forwarding. At the council on Self - Determination, Safety, and Health, a minister was frequented. Whether these emphasis are directly compatible with the pregnancy break - up bill, which includes emptying permissions to end a previously existing life. A break in pregnancy involves a decision, not only of the woman but also of the new life in the woman's body. Then I would like to quote the words of Reverend Bjarni Karlsson, a parish priest, by permission of the president. He says that the fetus in the womb has a greater relationship than the mother's body. We belong to a society that ends every sixth pregnancy. I'm asking like Father Bjarni: Do we have to? Isn't that a concern? Is it not a concern that the General is going to clear this warrant further? I think so. Mr. President. I think it's fascinating to follow the advice and comments of the National Institute of Morality, which consider it dangerous to take on this matter because this is a number of moral matters that need deep and enlightened discussions in the community. As many as 22 weeks of pregnancy as 22 weeks of gestation, a smoking institution considers abortion to be risky. The Agency suggests that the time limit will be reached by week 18. It should be emphasized that a disabled fetus is always entitled to life and is unsuited, thus supporting the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disappointment of the Disappointment. A mental institution agrees with the view that decisions about pregnancy are made by the woman. According to surgeon statistics, 95% of abortions are less than 12 weeks of gestation and 3.5% from 13 to 16 weeks of pregnancy. Only 1% is pregnant after 16 weeks. Then there is medical evidence to be provided for the procedure, such as the cause of foetal defects. According to the surgeon general's records, no one has been denied this operation by week 16. So I ask: Is this bill really needed and the changes it suggests? Mr. President. I'd like to step up just as much of a delicate subject, an abortion. The process is carried out by midwives and obstetricians. This may be very difficult for them morally, for this often does not harmonize with their values. Everything is done to save the unborn as babies, but at the same time, this same employee has to end up unwanted pregnancy. If the bill is legal, the staff must perform an abortion, since the child is only days from the moment he was born and survived. As we know, there is a lack of health care professionals, and governments have not made any practical plans to deal with their problems. Although the law says that employees can refuse to participate in abortion, the situation is often so because of human nature that health professionals often have no choice of anything else and, unfortunately, have to say that, in some cases, employees are pressured to perform abortion, even though they feel that it is not correct. The government must not and cannot put staff in this situation and may be reminded of in the oath the importance of protecting life is clearly required. I want in this relationship only to come into it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson spoke here in answer. She said this case, this bill of pregnancy break and extending the deadline in this way -- I think it is. A senator said that it would not be relevant to doctors or health care professionals. I must express my frustration with that presentation. A senator, because this is important to health care professionals, as we know. Big deal. I'd like to go next time to Iceland's Medical Association, but the Society is opposed to having a pregnancy break until the end of week 22. The Medical Association does not see why Iceland is walking on this bill beyond any other northern country has seen a reason to do so, and it puts the medical community in place to ensure that this area will continue to be implemented. There are two lines of reasoning. First, the Medical Association makes it clear that in current law the time limit is presented in either way that it always allows women to seek out pregnancy. Second, the fact that no one in the North countries has the same gestational gestational age as suggested in this bill. However, it is correct to guess, and before I could say anything, that the Medical Association's comments on the bill were unexpectedly retracted, suggesting that the subject is very controversial within a series of health care professionals. I specifically investigated it, and the reason for the withdrawal of the report was simply much more conflict in the matter and inconsistencies. This underscores the importance of what is stated in the opinion of Iceland's National Institute of Morality that it is important that the collection of the bill not be rushed too quickly because of basic moral questions that need informed discussion in the community. Mr. President. Governments are not to be assigned to my judgment to allow so much permission for abortion. The matter is very controversial and delicate. Governments are to ensure the best available maternal protection and economic and social conditions that encourage women to live, their God - given life, and their promise to bless us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u166	Mr. President. I can hear it from a talk or something. The senator, who does not consider him to change existing legislation, wants to keep it as it is, asks him what the purpose of changing it is. I wonder what. A senator links it with the review of Iceland's National Institute of Morality, which he referred to, where the weekly counts of the existing bill should be reduced to 18 weeks, whether it is a cause. I've felt that there's a certain misunderstanding in the opponents of the bill about what's really happening today. It is really so that women can have a pregnancy break up until week 22 if they have a serious birth defect or if the woman's life or health is at stake. It has also been spoken of in case of serious malformations, and although it is a major disability prejudice to have a separate law from a current law to respond to if a disability is diagnosed in the foetus and it is undesirable for the counsel to put it as a special command to the general rule of pregnancy break if the fetus is disabled and not if it is violated. The rule of the law that it is in today is considered to contain disability indiscriminate. I'm asking why. A senator may not feel that he is at fault with the discrimination of the law. Is it not only reason to revise legislation, to respond to United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, and to eliminate the disability of the law? As the situation is now, the only reason why it is allowed to exceed the limit is that a child or a fetus is severely disabled or that the woman's life is in danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator asked about the time limit mentioned in the review of the National Institute of Morality, suggested that the limit be transferred to 18 weeks. I support the current time limit as they occur in the law. Regarding the disabled, this may have been discussed on the committee. I state that I was not on a welfare committee and could not observe the discussions there, especially in the case of the disabled. However, I have noticed that an organization like the Down syndrome organization, etc. they're opposed to the bill. That seems to me to suggest that there is no match - so to speak, perhaps it is an inappropriate expression in this, I don't know it - what it is. A senator spoke of, removing the discrimination she mentioned. In that light, I believe that this change is really of no relevance to existing legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u168	Mr. President. It is now that existing legislation assumes that the fetus is disabled on the basis of its current law. It is a direct legal discrimination based on disability. It's just the way it is, and that's why I'm asking. I'm going to go back to something else that came out of the question. Senator. He refers to tests relating to the discomfort of women after pregnancy, and he says that he is concerned that the counseling that a woman is obliged to attend is now going to have a pregnancy break. First of all, I want to correct it, not that counseling is being canceled, but that is simply a option. Not all women need social counselling when undergoing pregnancy break. At any rate, the counseling is not being removed. Rather, it is mandatory that an adult woman sits under some sort of social advice about whether or not she needs health care. I would like to ask in relation to the tests. A senator points out whether he knows how women who are forced to walk with children they do not want to go along with, whether they know the consequences of birth can have on women, the dangers of pregnancy and birth put women's lives into, how serious the effects are, and how much they can be on women's lives. I'm asking why. A senator whether he has read an open letter written by an obstetrician. A senator, Inga Sæland, who feels the same way. Senator. The doctor spoke of the reasons why we need to make room for serious social events and in this context of ill feelings. I want to pray. A senator of imagining a 13 - year - old as a mother, who is in a difficult social situation and is not entitled to break her pregnancy after this time, as the law is today. How does he feel about the pain of this child because some men feel that life is sacred?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now I don't know what to do, maybe what to do. A senator that, and doesn't know how many women are discussing it as a boy. A senator talks about it. I know what you're doing. A senator how many women are forced to walk with children? I personally don't know it, but hopefully there are some numbers on it. I'd like to remind you, as I mentioned earlier, that according to surgeon figures, 95% of abortions are performed by week 12. Only 1% of these are performed after 16 weeks of gestation, and this requires medical evidence. In this context, I believe that concern is a factor. The senator doesn't exactly apply. I just have to say it. The deadline is changing, and I think it's a concern because it's a long time ago that we're talking about a baby. How difficult it must be for a woman to take if she has to have an abortion in the late stages of her pregnancy! But I don't know an example of it. A senator talks about it. Of course, no woman should be forced to walk with a child she does not want to walk with. However, all necessary social help and information must be provided. That's why it is important for me to keep such counseling because it comes to help people. [[The president calls.]] Not all who take advantage of the selective factors, so I believe that the present arrangement should remain a people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u170	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a pregnancy break. Like I did with 1st. which happened before New Year's Eve, that I believe with the bill we're making progress in behalf of Icelandic women's rights. That's first and last what we're doing. We are making the decision that Icelandic women have self - control over how they choose to use their health - care facilities. This is a fundamental matter, and it really doesn't even have to be said about it. It's an enormous record of progress, and I think we as a nation and Congress should be proud of it. I'd especially like to commend you. The head of the welfare committee for the way she has handled the matter, how she has handled the matter on the committee, and where it is now. That is an example, for, of course, this is not a easy matter. It is not easy to handle matters that are likely to cause opinions in the community, which are likely to arouse feelings, but they have done so by a single state and with full reason to mention them. The discussion has been published today, such as why. Councilmen have noticed that not all opinions are the same. There are three minor opinions in this case that I don't agree with, and I choose to discuss them no more. I don't think in such emotional matters as this, which, in some respects, goes well with moral and ethical questions, that conversation in the Senate will change one's opinion or attitude. It's gonna be a little self-inflicted. I think that any ethical or moral position that I or any other member of Congress might have in mind should, in fact, be a secondary factor in the case because the fundamental right is what really matters. That's what we're talking about, and we're supposed to focus on it and I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u171	A respectable president. We're here on legislation on pregnancy rupture, delicate and aggressive materials. It affects the legal, religious, and moral attitudes, the entire area of human life. It looks like each and every time you know, we're in the power of emotion. It's about our culture. It's human rights. Therefore, the Group of Common Nations considers it important for Iceland to take the initiative in this subject, but not as a passenger in the national community. We want more women's self - determination rights than that, when it comes to breaking a pregnancy and sexual freedom. It's the strong strand in this bill, in my opinion. It is important that women are allowed to make a decision on pregnancy cessation. It is not the responsibility of healthcare professionals, lawyers, social workers, or others to decide for a woman whether to have a child. Women of themselves can be trusted to make such a decision. However, we must constantly make sure that there is instruction and support or other help offered by professionals in connection with that decision. People, I say, because this has been the case with a lot of other people who can help, and that's an opinion, but let's not rule out anything in that subject. The importance of this is clearly stated in the bill. It is also important to ensure access to national, national, health care centres and clinics, in view of the fact that a greater proportion of pregnancy breakes are for social reasons and therefore important for those professionals who advise and support in the event and after pregnancy break, we must have professional knowledge in this respect and that we need to build up all over the country. It has been suggested, in the discussion of the subject of this bill, that women might benefit from a further pregnancy break, it will be successful. I don't think it's the norm, and I think it's a humiliating conversation in all places. There is no such thing as looking to other countries. The increase would probably not exceed the few occurrences in which women will go abroad in these operations after week 16. These are women wishing to be pregnant due to social conditions and unable to have a pregnancy-free procedure in this country legally. Detailed numbers of these women are not available because they are not registered in Iceland and there is no medical information on the unfortunate person. In current law and in this discussion, part of the change is that we are changing the language. So far, we've talked about this concept, an abortion, but we're using it increasingly, and according to this legal term, the term pregnancy break. The word for abortion is highly repetitious and has a very negative appearance. Of course, pregnancy rupture is heavy in itself too, but it is in my opinion at least will be less objective and less valid. Current legislation requires that abortion authority be based on medical or social reasons or that pregnancy is the result of criminal behaviour. In this situation, abortion is permitted until the end of the 16th week of pregnancy. In addition, the current legislation has to do with permission to have abortion after 16 weeks, as the law says, has a high probability of teratogenicity, genetic defects, or foetal damage. A respectable president. Work on the bill on the welfare committee stressed that its regulations do not violate the rights and objectives of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. In the matter of welfare committees, this delicate point was particularly prominent in the discussion and was very often heard by the visitors who met with the committee and among the members of the committee. They endeavored to keep the bill in mind and to protect enough of it. In this regard, it may be possible that the United Nations monitoring committee has made comments to national legislation that allow them to perform pregnancy break in all stages of pregnancy when the fetus is considered to be severely disabled. This is the case in Icelandic legislation, where there is a special authority on abortion after 16 weeks, as mentioned above, and referred to the Law letter, there is a high probability of teratogenicity, genetic defects, or harm to the fetus. This expression also wars against 8th degree. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, on a conscious awakening that obliges state to counteract political ideas and prejudices associated with disabled people. A respectable president. One of the factors involved is the time to break the pregnancy during pregnancy. In this issue's discussion, professionals have grouped themselves into a main policy in two with regard to attitudes. Most professionals discussed that certain foetal defects were not detected until late pregnancy, during or after 20 weeks of ultrasound examination, so it is important that women could decide whether to break their pregnancy until the end of the 22 week of pregnancy. The cheers all emphasized how difficult this decision was for women, and often for their husbands, to whom it was due. Limiting these rights would be a negative step. All professionals made it clear that it would be extremely important to allow pregnancy to be prolonged because the women in whatever worst social situation are often the women who do not realize they are pregnant until very late, have difficulty approaching a pregnancy crisis because of their potential circumstances in marriage, possibility of marriage, or some type of binding relationship. Often the form is forced or even violent. This may be due to language difficulties and social isolation because of, or because of, other circumstances or mixing of these. We often wonder, it comes up during the discussion, and it has even been the case. is set up in this discussion today, who should decide who should decide, who should decide whether or not a pregnancy break should occur. And who better to appreciate her situation than the woman herself? Is the Lawgiver better qualified to divide those conditions so that a woman must meet in order to walk about freely and safely? Is that better for two doctors? Is there a better name for a doctor, a social worker, and a lawyer? Then the question about the terms of the fetus, about life itself, and about a child, asks the mind. When does the baby have the right to life? It's hard to give a clear answer. To some extent, we are discussing philosophical speculations and, of course, moral questions, also cultural. It is accepted that a child is not viewed until the fetus is considered to have viable development, so the right of a child is not looked to in this context. Prenatal medicine experts measure the development of an unborn baby for months, weeks, and days. So no uncertainty could exist in the discussion of the criteria discussed at the end of Week 22 when the woman is walking 21 weeks plus six days. This is the 22nd week when the woman is 21 weeks old and no day until week 21 plus six days. This is the standard used by specialists in the field. According to experts in this field, pediatrics are generally not called to birth on premature infants unless the embryo has developed at least 23 weeks or at the beginning of week 24, as there is no chance of surviving a child. They are counting on the fingers of one hand, the premature infants who have survived after birth in the middle of the 24th week here. The target, i.e. The end of week 22 or week 21 plus six days, therefore, is at a time point in which foetuses within the health care facility are not tried. A respectable president. The objective of this bill is clear, to ensure that the autonomy of women who request a pregnancy break is clearly respected by safe access to health care due to these measures. The self - determination right of women is the center of this bill. Women's suicide to make a decision on childbearing is closely linked to women's right to safety and freedom. We're talking about human rights. It is very critical that health professionals, lawyers, social workers, or others are assigned to make a decision for the woman or to make a major impact on that decision. As noted earlier, women are fully trustworthy in making that decision themselves. However, if the woman feels that she needs counseling, instruction, support, or other assistance from health care professionals or professionals regarding her decision, it is clear in the bill that she is offered such a service. That service can be very important. She needs to be careful, and we need to have trained people in that work. We generally believe that the legal person is responsible for his life and actions and has the ability and ability to do so. That is why we should look to it in increasing numbers in this discussion. In the bill, the term healthcare provider for pregnancy discontinuation is made clear that it includes any type of health service provided to a pregnant woman associated with pregnancy break, including instruction and counselling as well as the conduct of pregnancy breakes, etc. It is worth wondering how many women have gone after a pregnancy break and have been refused after week 16. The total number of cases has been between 11 and 26 a year since 2006. In very rare cases, the decision to have an abortion and sterilisation committee has been lost and this has been the case in cases where legal requirements are not met and the Commission's authority has generally been associated with social conditions in such cases. About 80% of pregnancy breakes occur before the end of week 9, and more than 95% is performed before the end of week 12 and less than 5% after the end of week 16. The events after the end of Week 20 are usually less than ten per year. A respectable president. The contents of this bill involve a sensitive chord in a number of people, likely all the people who experience this subject in their own way. Life is so diverse, and in many cases this experience is associated with sad experiences, personal trials, or grief. We are also dealing with the origin, the root cause of life. So it is nearing every living soul. This is normal, but it is not our responsibility to deal with the discussion and the life we choose to live. It enables us to set guidelines that are accepted and to experience general reconciliation. This is not easy, for at the same time the voices hear that this is a matter of that kind, so large, that man should not dare to enter this field, here with a stronger power than human power to decide, and that no one should speak of this than a higher power, that fate should rule, that life should be holy, that no one should know it. In fact, the same forces say that man has become overly active, bold, up - to - date and irresponsible in his environment and in association with his natural environment. What exactly is the situation in this context? Is it not necessary for each of us to take a closer look at this material? A respectable president. It is the very term of respect that comes to mind. The very important thing to have as a guide is just respect, respect for life, and, in this context as well as in this context, respect for the woman's decision and attitude, respect for the customs and principles of other people, respect and respect for beliefs, as varied as they are, the public, to respect the decision and the position of the woman, to show respect for the customs and principles of another people, to consider them, and to respect for the religious beliefs as they are, the public, to respect for the decision and for those who must come to help at all levels when these laws are approved here at the General Assembly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u172	A respectable president. It was last December that this woman stood here, and we were 1st. in this abortion bill, a break in pregnancy as it is chosen. I don't feel any better now than I did then. And the evidence for having abortions until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy is so patheticly empty, to me, that it hardly takes anything to talk about. This is done to us women by trying to claim it, for example, in the first place. that we do not have self - determination rights over our own body. In general, I mean, a respectable president, that's exactly what we do. And the other, I also want to say that it is in general for us to decide whether or not to have an abortion. What I'm doing here is this duration, this incredible duration, on the intention of allowing, just to have my own thoughts, an abortion until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy, when I can't really talk about the fetus anymore, but I talk about a baby. I've had four kids already. By the time I was 18 weeks pregnant, they were kicking. By the time I was 20 weeks pregnant, they had started springing. When I was 22 weeks pregnant, I've got a bullet, a size ball. I must admit, more dignified President, that it is kind of more painful than tears, in view of the fact that we have no reason to be discussing it here and now. We have no reason to doubt that any single woman - that is just information, public information available to the governor, that in 2017 there were 1,044 abortions and no women - I'm going to repeat it: no one in her own self - determination and the authority on whether she trusted to own her baby or not, was denied that abortion. There are no official data available on the surgeon general's Web about 2018, but I still have permission from where I obtained phone calls to representatives: It is very similar to the number of abortions induced in 2018. We're talking about, a respectable president, four abortions every active day of the year. I'm just asking, "When are we talking about our self - determination rights, what is the child's right to live? " Is he worthless? We boast that we are here with a representative of the children at the General Assembly. How can an unborn 22 - week - old child in the womb protect herself? How can they do this? Who should speak the case of this irreverent individual? Who's going to do it? No one? It is then repeatedly pulled out of the perimeters of a potentially 13 - year - old girl who has been raped, about the possible addict who does not know until 20 weeks or more of the past or who has been held in her home by a wicked nursing father. They're drawing up some weird perimeter events that need to try to look for light, that if there's a chance, it's possible to find. But it doesn't matter about that peripheral situation - these people, then and when they want an abortion, they don't get no. Indeed, every woman who has to make this difficult decision is a source of social concern. I feel that, considering how many people really hurt, and including me - I'm just a pain in the heart to talk about this. Except for the slight you've been missing today at the Senate Hall, when the whole group of senators is sitting here in a side room laughing and laughing at members of the council who have come here to discuss what is their heart issue. I'm thinking of getting some water before you go any further. A adjustment motion by the Blocks, 3rd smaller parts, says we're cutting the line at 12 weeks. This has been repeated, e.g. When co-administered, the risk was increased. The head of the welfare committee, that it is not really changing anything, is authorized for a total of 22 weeks. She's said repeatedly here today that there's little to change. That's wrong. The principle is in 1 0... current law, 2 mg. suggests: An abortion is required and recommendations are made before week 12. Until the 16th week, this is more an exception. The exception that we're talking about, which I'm talking about right now, here and now, where it's needed, that's where perimeter events have come up - after that, that's an exception. Total. In fact, it has been suggested that at some point some women have had to consult other countries to have an abortion because these have not been possible at home or have been denied. I want to see these examples, a respectable president. It is not enough to stand here and talk about something that is not written on paper. I'm proud to speak for the unborn 22 weeks. I was looking at a picture of one of those just now. I even printed it out huge, and I was thinking about putting it up here, but I canceled it. And to say that we have some hostility toward the self - determination of women. It's just ugly to do that. Trying to say that we are opposed to abortions, even if a person is already in the heart, to bring up the difficult situations that need to be destroyed. I just strongly refuse that at some point, we have talked about noting women to seek help when they need it. This tendency that you see - I'm going to give a little example that maybe everyone remembers. It was here last summer dragged to a land in the whale station in Whale Cawdor, who had been killed and when she was carved on a hollow, a small whale fairy fell out. Everything was going to go crazy. What wickedness! What wickedness! Rather than standing here, instead of working together to make a special choice - think about - those of social reasons, poverty, feeling unwell, and perhaps wanting to give birth to their baby but forced to have an abortion, instead of being here and taking care of that group of women, instead of helping them - no, we are talking about how we ought to get their baby killed. A respectable president. I don't really have to say much more. My message is clear. It's clear what I think about this. And then come and welcome to meet me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u173	President. I don't think there's anybody to talk about that it's not important to put your arms around the women who are in a sensitive social situation. That's extremely important. I might just want a little less of that. A senator says that one of my main struggles at Congress has been to eradicate poverty, making sure that all have economic, social, and cultural rights. That's really important. But I just doubt that the answer is to deny the women who are in a difficult situation right now because we have not solved the issues, to go and have this medical service, and to have a pregnancy break. But I would like to ask. Senator, because I think there's a bit of a mix-up with her and also with her. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinson, is why. A senator in favour of the current arrangement, i.e. The kind they're doing today? It's really just a short, simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u174	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think I've said this clearly before: My heart hurts over all life being destroyed. But, yes, considering what we've had since 1975 and in fact, we've gone beyond the principle about 12 weeks, and we've been doing these operations until the end of the 16th week -- yes, I'd love to have had it like this. However, in the 1975 bill, I would like to separate, e.g. So sterilisation is a bill. Other things, as many know who know even a little about law, are not even to be talked about old legislation in this regard. Besides, there's something special interesting that I noticed. They're talking about health care. Are pregnant women sick? Are they really sick? And has any woman been denied this operation? Isn't it what it's all about, that we get a release that we're asking for at what time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u175	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I understood the answer to that question. A senator is in favor of the present arrangement, which raises questions where the change that this bill we are considering today involves the same rights. It's the same number of weeks, 22 weeks. Today, a woman can break her pregnancy up to Week 22, which is guaranteed. And like a cot. A senator rightly says that women have not been denied these actions. So what is it really like? Is there a senator who doesn't like it? For this is not of the expected number of weeks; for the same week number is the same. Now it's all about the woman's ability to make her own decision, but, as the arrangement is today, it's doctors who have to decide for the wife. Is that the basis for it? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that it should be some doctor who makes this decision on behalf of the woman rather than her own decision? Because that's what happens with this bill. She has nothing to do with the week's count. This strange perimeter situation was as good as it was. A senator speaks of, so few, that I suppose there's a reason. A senator would suggest that we should not even check them, since they are so few. But isn't it just our job, the Lawgiver, to meet those women, these peripheral events, that are most difficult and likely the most vulnerable of women? There's no empty reasoning. There's been a lot of reasons for this. Above all, it's about women's self - determination rights. Hv. A senator speaks of allowing himself to be granted well. That is rather a negative expression of a woman's making a decision. [[The president calls.]] So I ask why. A senator: Since the number of weeks is not changing and we're not expanding it, what exactly is it? A senator is afraid? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I just don't understand what it's all about. A senator repeatedly speaks of current legislation as having a home of abortion until the end of week 22. It's just wrong. I'm going to read from 10 g's. The current law that reads clearly in 2 Peter 3: 1. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It should never be carried out after the 16th week of pregnancy, unless there are compelling medical reasons and life and the woman's health pose a greater risk with prolonged pregnancy and/or delivery. In 1st. reads naturally: It should be carried out as soon as possible and preferably before the end of the 12 weeks of gestation. That's perfectly clear. A senator, that it is really being extended this article when it is time to do so. Not even sickness, illness, anything. It can be just a healthy fetus - or a child - for the 22nd week of an unborn child, just exactly like that. And when they're talking about peripheral events, that I'm dragging them out or asking if they should be minimized. No, not at all. But I don't think it's ridiculous to try to make them one of their main points and reason with this difficult, delicate issues, these terrifying peripheral events - which would be nice to know if they're listed as many.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u177	Mr. President. I'm not the first to mention peripheral situations in this speech chair or we do. A senator. I read an open letter to see what happened. paritaprevir Sæland harangu from an obstetrician who I felt was a very important entry into this discussion and a very important answer to the current language. paritaprevir This bill has been handled by Sæland Goland and the reasons for it. I'm going to allow myself to read only from this open letter to why. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. The letter is from Sigurl's Sigurlaug, the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, who works as an obstetric and gynecologist at the Land Hospital and has worked as a obstetrician for the past 15 years in Iceland and Sweden: ▪ I would like to draw your attention to a small group of women who have no proverbs in the above bill, except for someone like me. These are women who check the Women's Department after week 16 of pregnancy and request an abortion for social reasons. These very few cases are best described by example. She makes it clear that she is not referring to a cypress example, a serious case, but to one of the cases that she has faced in her ministry. It cites three examples and examples of No. two sounds: A woman in her late teens accompanied by her 29 - year - old mother, who is unique in three children and who works as a teacher. The mother had noticed a change in her body shape and repeatedly asked her if she had gone to bed with her, but the girl refuses. The mother insisted on making a positive pregnancy test yesterday. The girl comes to the ladies'ward and turns out she's 17 weeks gone. The girl's in middle school. My mother won't get a maternity or anything. My mother can't take a long time off from work she was starting at. [[The president calls.]] The mother barely ends up with her three children, and she has nothing to spare. I have to sit and look into the eyes of these mothers and say, "No, you shall carry this child. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator read this open letter addressed to it? What does she say?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the counter-sponsore. Yeah, I read that open letter. Thank you. A senator for reading it to me again. I don't know what message she's trying to send because I've never heard of a 13 - year - old girl in this position being denied an abortion. I don't know about that. On the other hand, I heard why. paritaprevir Today, Thorh Ævarsdóttir Sunna speaks in counterargument using the expression "someone who thinks life is sacred" to men. On the other hand, there is a woman who feels that life is sacred. What this excellent physician wrote is not in harmony with what many others have written. I am not part of a rhythm program to read from one or two of 62 comments received by a welfare committee about the bill, which was, in fact, not all positive to it, but to the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u179	Mr. President. Let me just explain my motives by reading from this open letter. I would have thought it was perfectly obvious. Hv. A senator has been standing here in a pita and talking about how people are resorting to an example of loose air, some ridiculous perimeter situation. I'm killing down into a letter that was written to why. A senator with a sincere request to take into account the women who cannot have a pregnancy break after the 16th week of pregnancy in Iceland today despite urgent need. I'm asking who. A senator: What would she like to do in that case? It's what it is. A senator really wants women to break up after 16 weeks of pregnancy for fun, for no reason, because they thought for 16 weeks that they were all ready for this, but then at 17 weeks they didn't bother with this, and just jump into the women's ward? Is that how it is? A senator that women are not wiser or more responsible beings than that? I'm asking why. Because of the circumstances of the women whom this obstetric surgeon is moved to write about in a letter to the question. A senator, because of the language she's had in front of the bill and other things. Sounds like it. A senator's inability to understand that it is not intended to mean women who actually require pregnancy breakes because they do not meet the current conditions of legislation. Got it. A senator saying that 13 - year - old children are being meant to have a pregnancy break because they do not qualify for a period of time, not after week 16?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u180	Give an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u181	I was just reading an example for why. A senator. She must have read an open letter to her, as she said. It contains repeated examples, including those found in the Bible. of this 13 - year - old girl. A senator was so shocked to be accepted into the discussion. We're talking about children who are forced to walk with children. [[The president calls.]] Is that all right with you? A senator? Is that really okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u182	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhman Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir for the counter, she knows better than I mean, what I say, and what I think. It's amazing what happened. A senator now has strong discernment. But I have never spoken of helping anyone who needs help in any language, for no one has been denied an abortion, not one person in the past two years - any in the last two years. [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u184	Then it's just really sad that the surgeon general doesn't have a better record, and he's just telling me a lie about what I'm asking, and he's telling me a lie about what he's going to print on his own website, in the governor's office. But as I say, it is clear and decisive that unless something comes up, as indicated at 2 mgr. 10th par. - and what. A senator should be able to read this just as much as I and even better - never perform abortion after the 16th week of pregnancy, unless there are compelling medical reasons and life and the woman's health are put at greater risk with prolonged pregnancy and/or delivery. An abortion should also be permitted after week 16 with a high probability of teratogenicity and such. If a 13 - year - old is walking with a child, as appears to be a favorite Þórhildur. Ævarsdóttir It must be considered by doctors to determine if a child is ready to take a child. I'd like to allow myself to doubt that, would you? A senator, that any doctor would recommend such a young child to be given birth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u185	A respectable president. In this discussion, both now and already the highest. Minister said for the bill, I have had to breathe in and out regularly. I think we're all good at it, because the discussion's gonna be pretty hot on chapters. I'd like to start with that, a respectable president, thank you very much. The welfare committee is eager for work and for anyone who has sent in the envelopes. As we have seen, a number of people, organizations, and institutions have sent in reviews, and I want to thank all the people involved in this case who helped to make the bill what it is, and now this opinion. I said last December when I got to the top. A minister said something about the case: Finally, there was a bill about changing those laws at last. Because to me the law we live in today is out - of - date. The law is entitled: Laws on counseling and instruction on sex, pregnancy, abortion, and sterilization. These are laws that are older than the one mentioned here, and they are now in their mid - life span. The law combines various kinds of objects, and in reality, the practice of what is under the law is hardly consistent with the law text. Of course, at that time society has changed much. Of course, there is no change in the fact that women become pregnant, and the same approach is often applied to that occasion. If the text of the current law is checked, it should be known to everyone that changes are needed. It is so that abortion, as it is known today - I restate that I agree very much that we change it in the law of law to talk about pregnancy - is not free here. Although the discussion has been made whether or not someone has been denied, we have certain laws. And if people fail to meet these requirements, they cannot apply for them; hence, they will not be denied or be granted a yes upon their request. Today, there are certain reasons for breaking a pregnancy, and two persons have to prescribe it, two doctors, or doctors, and social workers. In that way, a measure of responsibility is taken away from the woman. She certainly needs to request an operation, but someone has to write down that this is something she can do. I also think it's good to be in the discussion, because I've heard some talk of not making any changes, going back a little bit, and realizing that these laws have been called for a bit of time. That's exactly what came from experts in this field from gynecologists in the medical journal a few years ago. Then, one day, a former health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, appointed a group of professionals who conducted the law and offered proposals for change, which is why we are in that place today, where I think it is very time to make a change in the law. What we get most of the discussion about changing the law is the number of weeks. I think it is very important that the discussion for 22 weeks clearly states that the embryo is not viable at that time. Despite the fact that this talk about an alcohol - hungry baby in the womb or even a born whale bowl at 22 weeks, the fetus is not viable. If a woman enters a maternity ward at that point, she is not called after a pediatrician because, unfortunately, it is not possible to save children at that point if they come into the world. Let us also see that the 22 - week suggestion came from experts in this field. It comes from obstetrics and gynecologists, and Iceland's midwives have also adopted it. I'd also like to mention that Iceland's Light Mary Association has a 100th anniversary this year and represents a major conference in Haute, where 700 people from 27 countries meet. Although I understand so well that we here in this room are speaking out of emotion, I am fully aware that people have different emotions in this matter, I also feel very important that the facts are being held in place that there are experts who contribute to this age and that this is a good argument. On the one hand, the embryo is not viable at that point; however, what you can do today with modern technology is being screened for 20 weeks' waste. Then there may be other things that I also find very important to mention, and that is, technology is good. It is good to be screened for all kinds of things. I also think it is very important that the system is not presented in such a way as to allow for some form of communication. Therefore, I feel very important that education is there for the women who request a screening. They also came to realize what could come out of such a screening and possibly what the decision might follow. In other words, we need to watch how much women seem to want to be screened and if that's normal. If we look at many countries around us, our ratio here seems to be much higher than in many countries we compare with. I'm going to say that I think that more of the welfare committees have come to the right conclusion. On the other hand, I understand that when it comes to this matter, people have very different opinions and viewpoints. Then I think, a respectable president, that it is so important to consider whether or not we have to consider ourselves as to whether a pregnancy break is justified in my case or in your case or in our case or in our immediate case, or whether we are setting a law for the country anything that needs to cover all possible and impossible situations that arise. This may be why the conversation has gone into many things, whether the 13 - year - old girl or whatever it is mentioned here today, because we are so varied and events that may arise are so amazingly different. However, those of us who make the law have to make sure that they get around, all the events. Although I can understand that people have very different opinions about this, it has been my conclusion that we here can never write an accurate law code on when this is justified and when it is not, in any case, at any age, in any situation that may exist, etc. It was partly tried with the laws in force today. We know from experts who are involved in this that it is not really in full harmony. How the social situation of women is and what is stated in the law if the text is read, it is evident that it was written about 1975, not 2019. Of course, social circumstances vary greatly. So I think, whatever we may think of such things, the basis for which the responsibility is never possible and therefore the decision on as big as a pregnancy violation is on anyone other than the woman who is pregnant. In normal relationships, I don't doubt that such things are discussed, and both parties are allowed to promote their views, but they start writing into some law whose to agree or who not to accept, I just don't see them coming up, a respectable president. In a perfect world, no woman would be pregnant unless she wanted to, but we do not live in a perfect world, and however we are going to try to approach it in a complicated law text, it is always the best solution, as is suggested here, to be the woman's decision. At the same time, I also feel very important that the woman has a good access to information, counseling, and training. It's not supposed to be legal, it's supposed to have the full freedom to choose what it has to do with it. We need to consider that there is counselling in all parts of the country. I see that sociologists have sent in a review that highlights and repeatedly the importance of counseling everywhere. Simply put, we place responsibility in general for legal matters. They have to be responsible for their lives and actions, and I think we have to do the same thing in this matter. Whatever the case, as individuals we may feel about pregnancy breaking, we need to realize that this is where we put a law frame around anyone living in the country. When we hear stories of people looking outside the landstones for such services and having confirmed examples of such things that appeared at a meeting at a health committee, it grieves me deeply if we in Iceland cannot offer them up and keep them around, whatever we may feel about them, if they go elsewhere, that people get service in a secure health system here. I'm not going to extend this much more. I'll just say what. well - being Committee: Thank you very much for your work. I respect all the viewpoints presented here, and I understand that people may have different opinions on the subject. It is one thing when we think of ourselves as persons or as our closest ones, but another thing when it comes to making laws that apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u186	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing here, the bill for a pregnancy break, is most likely through difficult issues, and I think there are few subjects that are relevant to such delicate and difficult moral questions that each member of Congress has to answer for himself. That is why it is important that we be able to discuss the bill here with a lot of care. We may also have a similar discussion that will raise certain moral questions, even though I will not match them with anyone. That is when we need to decide whether and how we allow assistance to be treated with euthanasia. But I'd like to start by celebrating that bill. The law on abortion - and I have to ask for it. My colleagues in the councilroom are having a little patience, I'm accustomed to talking about abortion, but I'm trying to develop a new word, a pregnancy break, which in itself is an excellent word - is 44 years old and, of course, a child of its age. When that step was taken, a progressive step may have been the law that women's self - determination was not guaranteed, the self - determination rights of women who face this decision, most likely one of the most difficult situations that any woman can take, to end a pregnancy. He wasn't insured. This bill does. And all of us are to respect it. We hardly open ethics - based literature that contains a chapter that contains speculation about the moral status of the fetus, abortion or pregnancy rupture, embryo analysis, and the legitimate result. And in ethics, the division of meanings is precisely because these are so hard - to - believe issues that we are here in a relatively short time to make a decision. I believe that all of us in this hall stress that there is a substitute guard for the weekend of life, that human life should be respected, and that principle should be guided by medicine, in fact, in all our activities here. At the same time, it must be kept in mind that showing respect for the sacred weekend of life is also involved. This does not necessarily mean maintaining and saving our whole life. Sadly, death is not always the worst option. What's happening in me on this bill is the fact that this is going very far into what I would call the embryo's viability, week 22. It's the threshold I'll admit that I have a very difficult time getting across. I read carefully the comments received to the welfare committee. I had a very special stop with two people, another from what. A former senator, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, who led me to decide to get involved in this conversation tonight, also because it's a matter that concerns me like everyone else. I want, with permission of the highest power. President, quoting the reviews of our former colleague here at the Assembly Hall, Ólína Kjerúlf the Þorvarðardóttir's daughter, at the end of the discussion: ▪ In a nutshell: A signed form of paper is contrary to Article 4. the bill that includes the dilation of the time limit for abortion to the end of week 22. It would have been normal to hold on to the same time limit while taking in women's unprecedented self - determination right to end pregnancy. If so, it can be said that the term "pregnancy" can be correct and that there can be corrections for the basis of self - determination. Undiscovered, this bill presents a moral challenge to those who are involved not only with health care professionals but also to all who are concerned. If the bill continues, the peace of abortion in Iceland is likely to be broken. It would be irreparable damage to Icelandic women's rights and human rights in a wider context. Of course, in some ways it is a little special to be a man discussing abortion or pregnancy break because I admit that I can never relate to the women who face this incredibly difficult decision to end a pregnancy. I will never pretend to understand such a decision and the burden laid upon a woman. But if we reach 22 weeks, we're at least Having reached out to the point where we can talk about the fact that the fetus, irreprehensible according to medicine, is viable, and thus is morally just as we are here as individuals. And then the question arises: Will the lawgiver intend to set such limits, which are certainly very clear, knowing that progress in medicine is in such a way that we can expect that in the years to come, I do not speak for decades, the progress will be that we can say that an embryo, even an embryo, 20 weeks of embryo, even an 18 weeks of embryo, is life - giving, will become a viable person. Then the lawgiver is faced with the question of moving down the standards. V.E.G. President. As noted in the review of the National Institute of Moralology, the moral status of the fetus is generally considered to be strengthened as the pregnancy continues. I've seen no disagreement about this in this chamber in itself. An intervention that aims to break the pregnancy, as the review puts it, and thus the abortion becomes more difficult and morally questionable as pregnancy goes on. Nor have I seen that there is any disagreement on this view that is expressed at the National Institute of Science. By permission of the highest power. The president then put it this way: At some point, a break in pregnancy is no longer morally justified. Where this line is drawn is a difficult moral estimate. ◯ The difference I have with this bill is, in fact, nothing more than this line. On the other hand, I welcome the bill as such. I think it's necessary. I think it's in harmony with the time we are living where loyalty is a woman's right to decide, yet we decide that this right of decision is bound in this bill and in the majority wing. However, the welfare committee is suggested that this right of the decision be no longer than to the 22nd week of pregnancy. So the differences I'm doing are about this line, this moral evaluation. It is also about the question: Is it true, then, that when medicine, medical science, sends the fetus into action at week 18, for example, the law has changed? Because that's what's at the end of this bill. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to quote again the review of the National Institute of Moralology in her final statement: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. First of all, the National Institute of Morality holds that pregnancy breakers can become viable outside the mother's body, and second, the tension between this bill and the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should be taken into consideration. Here are basic questions and opinions about the embryo's moral standing, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination rights of women who need deep and enlightened talk in society. This review is thought - provoking. Mr. President. As I said at the outset, this case is of that nature that it involves feelings. It involves everyone's feelings, I suppose, and therefore it is so important that we succeed in this chamber to discuss this matter with calmness and moderation and respect our differing viewpoints. I understand the underlying viewpoints that point to week 22. I disagree with them, but I understand them. But let's at least... I think it's the biggest step in this bill to ensure the women's self-sponsored rights. There is one thing we should be able to unite.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn son of Kárason, of excellent speech. It may crystallize the concern of most people who are concerned about this bill, and it has to do with the duration, the number of weeks. On these very terms, I'd like to talk to you. At the end of his talk, a senator, and particularly what he mentioned, turned toward the tension between the timestamps and this bill and the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, as discussed in the National Institute of Moralology. I happen to disagree with the National Institute of Moralology on this very matter. The reason I disagree is even. the opinion of a UN Committee on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of disabled people, who have precisely criticized national legislation which has a special law on which to allow pregnancy breaking after a period of time frame on the basis of disability. That's how our law frame is today. Since we're talking about expanding this time frame, I'd like to put it in a little context for a reason. A senator on what the law is now. Pregnancy break-off is permitted there after week 16, in Article 10. Current law, by permission of the President: After 16 weeks, abortion should be permitted, with a high probability of teratogenicity, genetic defects, or foetal damage. Here's what we've got today. Pregnancy cessation can be carried out on this basis as a likely condition of the foetus. That's where I feel tense with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator feels that there is a special law in our laws that gives an exception to the general rule on the grounds that the fetus is likely to become disabled, whether the structure is somewhat tense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u188	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is absolutely correct. I think this law in the current law is the way it shouldn't be. I'm afraid, however, there should be some measures in which a mother's life is threatened. Then I don't think Week 22 is the line. Now I'm looking into the side room at what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who knows a lot more about the case than I do, and I think there may be an incident at week 25, even after 30, where a decision has to be made to complete a pregnancy because life is being saved. However, we cannot be allowed to end pregnancy in a special way on the basis that there is a defect or that the fetus is not perfect. We cannot create a community in which we decide that it is only perfect individuals who will be born because it prevents the variety of human life. That's the kind of community we don't want to make. I wholeheartedly agree with the harsh criticism. A senator is coming with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u189	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I am glad that we agree not only with women's self - determination but also with their importance. The question remains: Where to draw the line? The line laid by experts at this point is 22 weeks because the embryo is not considered viable. For example, if we want to include an issue - give us a mother who has four children, and it turns out that she has a severely disabled child. Will we deny that this woman is going to have a pregnancy break because she is not trusting to add the fifth child who is severely disabled and unable to provide for her illness? Do we need to tell her: No, you can't have an exception because we just give out if your life is threatened? What we're doing with this legislation is pulling a line into the sand. Until then, the woman is in charge of what happens to her body. It is not considered likely, based on data from all countries with a more voluntary legislation than we do, that the number of women who break up at week 12 after week 16 will be increased. It shows us from Canada, from Britain, from other places where law laws are considerably more free than here. There it is still a vast majority of all women who break up pre-week 12, so it has the least intervention in women's lives to do so, at least risk, at least of trouble, the least of difficulties. Of course they will. Women are intelligent like men. The line that is being drawn into the sand, 22 weeks, can certainly change. Then there is good reason to reexamine where we draw it. But if the question is the woman's self - determination right to the embryo's right to life, then it's a line that experts tell us. [[The president calls.]] And I say, "Who else would lay this line, but exactly them?" [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u190	Mr. President. That's exactly this problem I'm fighting, that's this line and where it is. It seems to me that there's a difference between me and what. The senator is actually just that. So I pointed out earlier in my speech that if you plan to aim at Week 22 on the basis that before that time the fetus is not viable, as it is called, you must also be ready to say, when medical science comes forward, that the line will go down and agree with what the surgeon says in his review, that this limit will change in the future with a better look at premature babies. That's the question. So people are wondering about it and promise to do so, including why. A senator if I understand him correctly, but what? A senator corrected me, that it should be based on biology, and the lawgiver must be ready to move the line down and down as medical advances give us reason to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u191	President. I was only going to follow up on a question. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir. It's getting a little late. I hope I keep a speech here in a pita. But I wondered about it, because of it like a cot. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdósdótir mentioned that if an abortion is performed after week 16, it should be only if a woman's life and health are put at risk or at high risk of teratogenicity, genetic defects, or foetal damage. So that's what's left over. We had a lot of discussions about this in the middle of nowhere. The welfare committee. The need to move down a week's counts was very much discussed. That was about 18 weeks or 20 weeks. But the question always remained, What will we do if we remove these remainders from the law that we have to do? We can't have disability in the law. How, then, can a woman have a pregnancy break in the 18th week if she is going to be exposed to waste for 20 weeks, which may result in very serious foetal defects? Often these are heart defects, central nervous system defects, kidney defects that appear there. Then the question is, should we not have it available for a woman to have a pregnancy break at this time? And now I'm just talking about the women who get into some serious incidents that show up after 20 weeks of waste. Now I haven't taken into account the women who are in a very difficult social situation, which we've talked about here, and I'm sure that they would. A senator has observed only the discussion of these women. Is that where we're going, if we start taking this down for 18 weeks? Some are just there. [[The president calls.]] If we simply take out all of this, are we going to circumvent some new entry into the law to try to control the number of anomalies and possible exceptions that arise? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or we're just going to say to women: No, you just have to have the baby now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u192	Mr. President. It's been a while since I realized that there are so many moral topics I have that I don't always have answers on my hands. And sometimes when you make a decision, you just throw yourself at some angle, because it doesn't matter what you do, including in this matter, and even 22 weeks will not necessarily solve all the problems. A senator counts. It may also be that after the 22nd week, there are similar developments. So I have to say: I may approach the matter in a relatively simple way, and maybe it could. A senator argues - with logic even - that it is naive to approach the matter in such a way as to respect the sacred weekend of life. But I also said in my speech: This respect for the sacred weekend of life also means that we are ready to be dead, because the corpses, of course, are making decisions about it as difficult as it can be, that death is not the worst possible option, as bad as it is otherwise, as final. But I'll admit it. Senator. I don't know how to answer you any better than I do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u193	President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I know it's hard to answer. It was also difficult for us on the welfare committee. But this was the most reasonable conclusion, at least in the greater part, because it is impossible to provide for all different situations in the community. It's impossible for us as lawmakers to avoid anything that might ever happen. So in the end, we just have to trust the woman to know what's the best choice for her, for her life. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that technology was throwing out, possibly increasing embryonic viability by week 22. However, this technology will probably also happen at the time of screening and the 20 weeks of waste change, moving on the 18 week waste, or whatever time it is. So we have nothing to worry about, as long as we know there is no woman - and we admit it - to have a pregnancy break so late in pregnancy unless something serious is wrong, unless it is the only option that a woman is facing. And no one else can make this decision for the woman. All she has to do is make her own. All the reasons for this change sound to me as though it is being said that women are an increasingly minor pregnancy breaker because it is now just somehow available and open and legal, and has no business to do it, as if it were something minor and probably a late pregnancy breaker. That's what I'm having so much trouble with. People recommend it to be in 22 weeks. There are professional reasons. I guess my question just exists. A senator whether he thinks it is wise for him to see us scram at this week's end based on the feelings of the individual senators rather than on the professional opinion of experts? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u194	Mr. President. What about the feelings of individual senators? To be honest, Madam President, I know what to answer a question like this because I think every day I control a considerable amount of my feelings and make a considerable amount of decisions about my feelings. I just pray that people listen to the attitudes I represent, and there are a lot of people who stand before us when we ask at least to understand how difficult it is to accept a break-off or an abortion may occur up to 22 weeks. It's just hard to accept. It's hard to accept it when there's even a section of evidence about how viable the fetus is, and it can be viable by week 22. Medically, there were cases of premature babies living, even younger ones. So let's take it easy to make claims. I pray we take a slow walk to the ground. There's a warning, including... from the Institute of Moralology. I'm not always, and I didn't always agree with my Ólína friend Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir here, but her story is truly unique. She's well put out. She's a good one. I think it would be wise for us here to reread it before we vote on this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u195	A respectable president. There are two main points that I have considered to enter in this speech about the bill that we now discuss in the 2nd issue. On the one hand, it is the changed term that I have to admit that it is rather common for me to be used to change the thinking that may occur in both cases, such as this one, whether we call it a pregnancy break or an abortion, or only in the public business where things may be called a living room or something more innocent, a purely administrative agency. But that is a discussion before later. Of course, this situation raises many moral questions, such as why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in with the preceding talk, a fine speech that came up with many of the things I plan to come in after, and the other things I make comments on the subject is the key point, i.e. 22 weeks is the subject of withdrawal. If, by permission of the President, I'm going to run down to the Bishop's review on this point so clearly says: Despite the contradictions involved, our association in recent decades has found a balanced view of the future mother's right to her own body and the right of an embryo to life. Since the 12-week time frame has been supported by health science, human rights, and the best service performed by social advisers and other professions in the most professional setting. So, in my opinion, the new proposals disturb the balance and even raise fundamental questions, which we should, of course, always ask about the privacy and progress of life in this world. These are the bishop's viewpoints in this context, which are well worth attention. That's, let me say, as good social relations with the present time set and I think it's possible to find out about things like this. I may be wrong. I'm often wrong, but I think somehow this approach, which is the old reference with the exceptions that are listed there, is a approach that the community as a whole can live in a more acceptable harmony. As we have discussed today, no one has to try to say that this is an absolute agreement with experts. It is quite a few of the doctors'comments that suggest a different extraction. So there is really no need to question that the matter is controversial, that is sensitive, and that, by all means, I want us here to approach with great caution. This is probably the case we're taking care of or going to this council where we're feeling most emotionally, I'm telling you so much about it. I've been watching the discussion all day, and I've been in a lot of trouble. I challenge all of us to respect one another's viewpoint. But my point points of view are like this. As the bill is presented in accordance with the majority opinion, abortion is permitted after up to 22 weeks of gestation, i.e. ... andbyweek22, if I understand the majority opinion correctly. Initially, the bill set out 18 weeks ago, but it was changed and now goes beyond most of the countries we compare with. The figures sent in are divided into two groups, and must be made at the moment. But there are two opinions that I would like to draw special attention to. Thus, they find that they are the same as the rest of them. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in with his speech first. On the one hand, it is an excellent review from the former Generals' wife of the Conspiracy, the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter, who I intend to give a witness. There are many things in the review of the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir's daughter, who would come in, and I encourage those who listen to her to read her comments. In the conclusion of the story, she says: ▪ The writing of the book stands absolutely against Article 4. the bill that includes the dilation of the time limit for abortion to the end of week 22. It would have been normal to hold on to the same time limit while taking in women's unprecedented self - determination right to end pregnancy. If so, it can be said that the term "pregnancy" can be correct and that there can be corrections for the basis of self - determination. Undiscovered, this bill presents a moral challenge to those who are involved not only with health care professionals but also to all who are concerned. If the bill continues, the peace of abortion in Iceland is likely to be broken. It would be irreparable damage to Icelandic women's rights and human rights in a wider context. In this case, the viewpoint of a bishop and of a former senator, Olin the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter, goes very well together. I'm gonna let myself make them my basics. In addition to this, there is a review that I think is a reason for special attention and that is the review of the National Institute of Moral Research and, in particular, its conclusion. It should be noted that the basic history of the National Institute of Moralology points to the 22nd week of the Common Era and that this is the case with arguments. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to establish the findings of the National Institute of Moralology, which states in the final paragraph of the Agency's review: It is the conclusion that it is important not to rush the release of this bill. First of all, the National Institute of Morality holds that a pregnancy break is dangerous until the 22nd week, since the fetus may become viable outside the mother's body. Second, consider the tension between this bill and the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Here are basic questions and opinions about the embryo's moral standing, the right of disabled persons, and the self - determination rights of women who need deep and enlightened talk in society. This review is thought - provoking. I hope so. A health committee will consider the matter in an open discussion. Clearly, there is a wide difference of opinion and away from the point of view that all experts on the subject agree so that they can be maintained. Finally, I would like to suggest that the bill be handled with care and that my views be repeated earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u196	Madam President. I've watched very closely the discussion that has taken place today, 2nd. for a new bill to correct pregnancy break and for the views presented here. I have been paying close attention to this matter from the beginning and, in fact, before that time. Despite what some have. Councilmen, as well as others who have spoken about this bill, have held them up on this matter a significant shift and have held a long time. So it was that the time was at its height. Health Ministers appointed a group to review current abortion laws - sex counseling and training, pregnancy and abortion and sterilization laws, as they are now called - but they are considerably in their years, from 1975 onward. This team was appointed specialists, and on the basis of their work, this bill was started. At least this has been since I went to the council. The report from these experts was presented, so I've been observing this case for a good time. I don't feel that it's really going through this. I think that's exactly what I've been doing. I feel that there has been a detailed and extensive, consultation process. I find the most important consultations with experts, and especially the experts involved, have taken place, and it seems to me that this work is entirely based on what is considered to be the best outcome, based on what has to be done in order to become as accessible to women who need it. I likewise respect the moral boundaries that various members of the council are accustomed to talking about in this discussion about the embryo's viability, the right to life on the part of the woman's self - determination. In the introduction, I simply want to say that I don't feel that I'm going too far into this. I also know what to do. The welfare committee has discussed this matter very closely for a while, and I don't think it's running at all. I've been up here before describing my views on this bill. I did so in 1st. and I declared my firm support of the bill. I am glad that I can do the same, and I can express support to the majority of the welfare committees. I am very happy that they kept to the number of weeks recommended by experts rather than start shopping for some sort of political exchange to win the seminar on a council. I don't feel like doing business with these weeks, in view of the information we have from our experts on what cases they are dealing with, especially those outside the current legal framework, but who need this health care - and I call this health care shameless, as the World Health Organization does, or other health care professionals and health care professionals. I don't think there's anything wrong with doing it back to some of the dogs. Senators here. For this reason, I was not going to go anywhere in particular my views of this bill as it is because I have already done so. I have declared a great deal of support for the bill. I want to emphasize how important it is for me to renew these legislation, to bring it into harmony with today, to put it in such a way that the woman's self - determination is put in place, that she does not have to agree with two officials to get a medical service that she thinks she needs, and that it is no longer that the disability or disability of the fetus is granted by a general rule, but is that the woman's choice, whether she trusted to have a severely disabled child or not, whether she trusted to walk with a child if she learns somewhat after the present delay is passed, and is in very difficult social situations as we have heard of. The fundamental question of this discussion is whether we trust women. Period. Do we trust women to make decisions about our own lives, decisions about moral standards regarding pregnancy loss, decisions about their ability to walk with a child, should we, raise them, deal with this commitment? Do we trust women or not? That's what this discussion is for the most part. This certainly is a difficult discussion, as some members of the Parliament have been making. I find it quite difficult for those who speak with great ignorance and in a very disparaging way, to think, for women who choose to break up. It is said to be on behalf of unborn babies. Change proposal is made up of a third-important cut of the welfare committee, huh? paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, that the definition of the word "- which he would in fact like to call embryomorality" ◯ - be, by permission of the president: To put an end to the life of the fetus, the request of a woman was made on request by a patient or other medical procedure. Whatever it is. A senator is talking about this, comparing abortion or pregnancy breakdown with the death penalty, which is telling us, under a rose, that he views women who have a pregnancy breakdown as murderers. He believes that they will kill children. It may not be popular to say exactly what it is, but it is well implied by the use of the word "yet. " A senator suggests nothing to do with the wording in current legislation. It's not like he's trying to keep it. He wants it to be legally established that pregnancy breakers are ending in the womb. He speaks a lot about life and death, and our right to determine that in his language. In current legislation, it is not said that the embryo's life will be put to an end. A senator wants to do with his new proposal. Just so it's served. And so that they can be fed, they want to wake up. A senator of this, by his presentation, with his adjustments - without necessarily knowing it himself, I find it very hard to understand, when I discuss it. A senator as well. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand, whether they fully understand what they're suggesting in their new proposals and committees. They are talking about tightening the rights from the current level, narrowing the availability of women to health care, breaking of pregnancy, and this much by setting the line at 12 weeks, but not 16, as it is currently. It's the result if the NTSB's proposal for welfare is adopted and that's something I can't support. Others snarl. Senators, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, have been talking about the woman's self - determination, that they respect the woman's self - determination, but that the man should have some sort of access to such a decision or that both parties should be allowed to make that decision. Right away. Ásmundur Friðriksson's members and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson were asked how they envisioned the failure of such a common decision - making organization. How should the two be carried out if the woman wishes to have a pregnancy break, but the man does not want to do so or vice versa? If the wills of these two conflict, which one should have the upper hand? Who's more boss? If the man is contrary to the woman's will, how should he act? They have not been able to give clear answers as to how to do so. They just feel that men should have something to say about women who break up or are not pregnant. They cannot explain how they envision the will of these men to be fulfilled if he is in trouble with the woman's will. Even so, it is hard to imagine that it will be different from some kind of horror or a phytopistic vision in which women have returned to male housekeeping. In current legislation it is assumed that male opinions should be sought if possible. That, too, may be the case with a child of his day. I think most normal couples would discuss whether or not to end a pregnancy. I don't think it's something the law should order or act, no matter how we planned it. The current law also contains regulations like this, by permission of the President, from 13. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A woman with a mental disorder, a highly intelligent or for other reasons unable to recognize the need for the operation is permitted to perform the procedure according to the legal application. According to current legislation, then, a legal guardian may decide on the behalf of a law - defying woman that she should have a pregnancy break. I just got an answer from the highest. The health minister of Sábís Svavarsdóttir that it was not customary in the National Hospital Women's Department to use pressure when it comes to such action, which is a cause for great joy. At the same time, I find it risky to have it in our legislation that it is acceptable, or stated in the legislation, that someone other than the woman can decide to end pregnancy, and so the legislation is today. Hv. Sæland Gaand, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, and others have repeatedly mentioned that no women are allowed to break their pregnancy at the moment. That's what I'd like to say. First, there are very clear examples of women who are unable to apply because they do not meet the excluded conditions, i.e. that the unborn child they carry is likely to be severely disabled or not have life - threatening or life - threatening - including those of 13 - year - olds who become pregnant. If their lives are not put at risk by walking with a child, they do not agree to be under the rules and therefore need to go to Britain, where there is room for children to walk with children. It is a time error, a respectable president, that our laws do not assume that we can meet and provide needs for children of health care. There is something else that is underlying in this process that concerns me. Hv. Councilmen don't want to turn existing legislation, that's what they say. They say on the other side that they oppose the number of weeks. They talk about unborn babies and their right to life, and these are why. Senators who serve at the National Assembly of Iceland, who have a very realistic chance of being a member of the government. It just so happens, you know. President, that the law as it is now does not prevent a significant change, does not prevent more and more women from being denied a pregnancy break from becoming more conservative. The 1975 law is quite conservative, and it receives instructions from the local minister of the judicial class that it should be carried out considerably more strongly, but it has been said that we might be more likely to see more denied on the basis of their moral standards. Councilmen here have spoken to. And I'm afraid of that, at least. President, get these guys out of here. Government officials then allow women to become seriously less pregnant because of their views, and it will be based, not on scientific approach, but on their moral convictions that women, after 12 weeks, understand that most of them do not have a right to their own body. In fact, they feel that women should just not do this, and if they don't want their baby, they should just give it a adoption rather than a pregnancy break. It seems to be an accepted opinion, too. This is why I feel that it is very important to renew the law. At any rate, it is not just a matter of dealing with the dominant catch whether a woman has access to a self-important health care agency or not, but has to have a different process, such as we are going through now, a process that has been very careful, very thorough, and has had a long response. These songs come from 1975, and they are based on distrust of women. Initially, at the time of their arrival, women were suggested to be allowed to decide for themselves up to week 12 whether or not they had a pregnancy break. They had to withdraw the law because women could not be trusted to make that decision for themselves at that time. This same attitude is the attitude we are experiencing right now during the discussion in this hall. Women cannot be trusted to make moral and true decisions for themselves as to what they and their best life are. It's the foundation, it's all about it. The number of weeks comes from our major experts, all of those who perform this service, all the doctors and all the health professionals who perform this service agree that this is a good reference time for any actions that are not directly carried out to save mother's life. This tells our most skilled experts, and those who talk about reducing this, that this should be less, I don't think that already a pregnancy break is being carried out until 22 weeks, but only with leaves based on the more severe disability of the fetus or the threat of a life and mother's health. That's the situation today. We're going to remove this disability discrimination from the law and let the women decide for themselves whether they're going to be pregnant or not until the 22nd week number that's practiced today. No figures, no data show that, in countries where pregnancy discontinuation has been permitted, where pregnancy has been permitted, more women have had a pregnancy break-up later in pregnancy. It's not like that. Women are intelligent creatures, just like men. They can be trusted to make wise decisions about their lives, and it is wise to break a pregnancy before week 12, that is much less involved in life when a woman is chosen to do so than if it is later decided to do so. That's what women know. They need to have their reasons for going back, and they don't do so because they don't want to leave sooner. And if that's the case, it's the best. President. Who are we to decide for women what to do with their bodies? I feel very sad to hear the attitude toward women I have heard from a few years ago. Parliamentaries in this discussion. They show a lack of confidence in us and a sense of contempt. Fortunately, I think these attitudes are in my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for her speech. There is one thing I would like to ask. A senator into whom I didn't hear her come on. It faces the rights of the fetus or of the unborn child. Counts 'em out. A senator that will be at the time point where a child becomes viable at 22 weeks, when it is possible to survive outside the womb of a 22 - week target? Or thinks so. A senator that happens sooner or only first at birth? So the question is, count it. A senator that has a view of the fetus's own rights has something to do with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u198	Madam President. In my speech, I said that the fetus was not prized viable by week 22. I'll put it right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u199	Madam President. I have to reiterate my question. She's obviously misunderstood something. When can you tell? A candidate for an embryo or an unborn child's own rights, if any. A senator considers a time limit above his head in this context before he is born?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u200	Madam President. The estimated survival of the 22nd week is not to be expected. Hence, their right to life is not involved until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u201	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a pregnancy break we've been discussing here for quite some time today. I've thought the discussion was very good. The nature of this matter is a sensitive matter, as it has also been seen, a very divided opinion, an emotional one, and it seems to each one like so many other things we're taking over here, and nothing at all. Although I disagree deeply with many of them, I respect the opinions presented here. Likely, too, many disagree with my approach. The objective of this bill is very important, but perhaps an evil thing has been about weeks, 18, 20, 22, rather than talking about what is said in Article 1. On the purpose of the law, by permission of the President: The aim of these laws is to ensure that the autonomy of women wishing to be pregnant is respected by providing them with safe access to health care in accordance with the laws of the law. The report says: ▪ Self - custody refers to the right of women to make decisions about their own life and their future. A woman's self - custody team is the right to make a decision about her own children and is such a right to ensure the safety and freedom of women. It's the input of the bill. Weeks or more is not really the input of the bill, but it has taken more and less all the space in the discussion of the day and the other has received a much smaller approach. What interests me and has been so much discussed today are peripheral things and other things that may truly be the cause of such a decision being made so late. I say as a woman, that's clearly so that women do not specifically choose to have a pregnancy break until the 22nd week. In my opinion it's not that, because it's a very difficult decision. She is taken only out of calmness and likely after the woman has thought very much about whether she wants to do this or not. And I also think it is reason to make it clear that it is not the air mentioned in the leading committee program that is the case with women in difficult circumstances, either social or other situations. These are the things we are first and last looking at when it comes to this. I'm happy for this bill, and I'm really glad it's finally done. There may not have been much discussion here about the construction as such. It was suggested that only gynaecologists would perform such operations. However, as noted in the above article, there are certainly skilled surgeons in many places, such as surgeons. Like the hospital at Isafjord and Nessau, who do emperor action and so on, and therefore are in place to perform such action. The committee proposes a change to that. Of course, this ensures the equality that we talk about when it comes to these matters as well as many others. It is also important to keep it in place, as stated in the leading committee program, that the woman alone receives the criteria behind the decision. It is said that the decision is guaranteed as far as possible; it is not made on the basis of some kind of prejudice, lack of information, or ignorance; nor is it the woman's desire to receive it by general instruction. We cannot harm women to be taught, but that is at least it is expected to be present. Then I'd like to go over the 5th floor. We cite various statements that we choose because they may support the cause and support that each one of us makes in this discussion. In the 5th. it is suggested that a pregnancy break be carried out by an unscheduled girl without having to be subject to parents or guardians. This is to ensure that she makes that decision independent of others. In the current 1975 law there is a requirement for a woman under 16 years of age or to be deprived of self - control, the parents or the legal authority should participate in an application with her unless there is some particular contraption. This is not in harmony with what we have discussed when we consider the right of children to their own custody, let alone the Constitution of privacy. Therefore, the decision to authorize this is made without the care of parents or guardian. It's a child's emissary. Well, we've talked about who's taking care of the kids. That's even. Children's agent who suggested this and did not think it was far enough on the original bill. It has also been observed by the Ministry of Justice, since this is, of course, a very personal and dramatic decision, that it more closely harmonizes with the United Nations Children's Convention on Child's Rights that girls have this right to decide whether or not to break their pregnancy. Of course, it is also suggested that education and contraception are offered so that they do not need to apply this authority again. So here are a lot of things that are changed for the better, these old laws that are so updated, and that is, as we have seen, for a long time. I'd like to think of ourselves as being such that we are responsible for our actions and for what we do and for what we do and believe that it is not for health care professionals or for some social worker or for any of us who are at the General Assembly and who set a law, that a decision should be made for a woman whether to have a child. At the same time, as I mentioned earlier, that if a woman feels that she needs instruction or help or something like that, she is of course available. We have a very good midwives service in Iceland and other health care professionals. We have a good, powerful health care facility, etc. so that there are many services and women in general may be able to do so, except for those that are the best ones, e.g. from abroad you break and do not know the support that society offers and the rights they have for service, e.g. that they do not have to pay specifically for pregnancy break. It's very important. This may be part of what has been mentioned here as a social factor, people who have problems, whether violent or otherwise. This is a group of people for whom our sights should improve, and in effect, we need to introduce this health - care organization much more to that group. But then we have an example, as we have seen today, of women who have lived in a violent relationship who cannot for some reason, what should I say, make that decision enough early as they themselves might wish. I sincerely believe that it is an emergency when it comes to going very late. As noted above, statistics show that since this is permitted and legislation is more extensive, approximately 80% of pregnancy breakes are performed by the end of week 9, 95% is carried out by the end of week 12, which is about 5%, and less than that, after week 16. After week 20, less than ten cases per year are reported. So these weeks fall below are numbers that say the number of cases in the range of 17,520. There are four and a few more weeks. A respectable president. There is no need to extend this discussion. There's not much more to it. I think today's viewpoint has been very effective. People object to this matter for various reasons, whether for religious reasons or for other reasons, just as those who follow it are sincere supporters of their own body. It supports the view that this is not something that is abused or that is done simply by women. I think all women will know if they want to watch this sincerely. I'd like to read at the end, with the permission of the President, a fistula as a woman who sat here on the coats today, wrote on Facebook. I got her permission to read it unchanged: ▪ The Red Rock movement made women's self - determination right to control their own bodies one of their main struggles soon after 1970. Then abortion was banned unless the mother was in danger of death. I◯ - The one speaking is Guðrún Ágústsdóttir - ◯ var in the surgery group, and it took courage to stand out of shops and distribute fine newspapers with our main arguments. The matter was delicate. 1970, the 1970 State of Independence appointed three men to revise abortion laws. The Elysium movement and the Women's Rights Association made comments on the orders of the Committee. Vilborg Harðardóttir and Guðrún Erlendsdóttir were added to the committee when the left government came to power and Magnús Kjartansson was the health minister. The committee wrote a bill to new legislation laid out at the General Assembly in 1973. On the way in January 1974, we said: ▪ Here is one of the major issues of equality struggle, so we support this magazine with the idea of the abortion that has been proposed at the General Assembly, and we trust our national representatives to secure it. The left command went from the summer of 1974, and then the government appointed the Independence Party and the forward party a new committee of three men to prepare for the return of the bill. The bill changed the law of 1975 and social and medical conditions there are necessary reasons for abortion, so that women's rights were severely limited from what was expected in the bill led by Vilborg Harðardóttir. A well - supported report was laid out by a doctor and a social worker or two doctors. In other words, it's not the authority of women over their own body. But this was a big step. Now, less than 50 years later, we destroy the hope that women themselves will be given power over their own body. I wanted to experience this remarkable moment when a health minister's bill was discussed that women control their own bodies and therefore showed up on the platform. Last time the change was made, there were only nine women at the council. Now, less than 50 years later, there's a lot more. Wonderful to be on the coats today - I was, of course, all alone! - and listen to each woman after the other, and men also speak for this old battle between us and the Red Socks. The world will change for the better - sometimes. A respectable president. So many words were spoken by Guðrún Ágústsdóttir after sitting here listening to a part of the day's discussion. I can't help saying to those who have talked about the need for us to give this a little more time, we need to think about this better, that 50 years is time. I think we can agree that 50 years is a lot of time. Although we today may not have discussed this matter for 50 years, this issue does not need more time in the process. I'm happy, and I'm confident that we'll accept this case so that women can stand here and decide for their own bodies and if they want to have children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u202	V.E.G. President. I'm going to come up today to finish the whole thing. During today's discussion, which has been very good, I have raised many questions. I've been sitting around watching every speech that's been delivered, and I feel that people, many of them, don't have it completely straight where we're going this case. Hv. While members of the council have tried to appreciate their opinions, such as all of us have in the hall, it is because I am not completely clear, I wish we would ask for the matter back to the room. The welfare committee. This is especially to enhance our appreciation for the points that have come up today, even though the discussion has been very good. I've written down some questions that I'd like to include before the committee and hope that I'll be well received, so that we can all be on the next round -- I hope it's all over so -- made an informed decision on this delicate matter, as has been said before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u203	Mr. President. I recommend here for the Economic and Business Committee for the bill to legalize the Change in Life Insurance Act, No. 100/2016, with subsequent changes i.e. the number of agents in the wear and tear. This is U.S. Senate $1,300. As mentioned in the report, the concern of the Economic and Business Committee on Case 632 was as far as it would be concerned. a change in the insurance policy law, pointed out to the Commission that it was urgent to make a change to the 1st matter. 1.mg. 152nd par. The legislation would require that the Agency appoint up to three persons in the off-treatment of insurance insurance companies, but the current regulations are provided for the removal of less than three ships in such cases. The Department of Economics pointed out that although at the beginning of the break-in of insurance insurance society, the need for a three-man breaking regime would not necessarily be needed for the end of treatment, which could take years because of an extended demand period of insurance. Thus, the FEC felt that the wording of the law would be changed, including the change of the wording of the law. to prevent the pay cost of broken - off management from becoming an excessive proportion of business costs, and ended up wasting the rest of the society's demands, such as insurance and insurance insurance. In support of this, we might point out that the financial enterprise laws require that up to five men be included in the break - up regime. The committee agrees with the above views on the UNECE and suggests this bill for an appropriate change of 1 mg. 152nd par. Fix insurance. Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be referred directly to 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-02-98.u204	Mr. President. I recommend to the Economic and Business Committee for a bill to legalize a change in the terms of merit taxation, No. 50/1988, with subsequent changes, for heat pumps. In 1st. explains: A reimbursement tax due to the purchase of a heat pump for the heating of an apartment building can be reimbursed. According to one report, the bill suggests that a reimbursement tax due to the purchase of a heat pump for dwelling heating is permitted. There is a temporary authorization for reimbursement of worthwhile taxes, but in the terms of the existing legislation, they fall out after five years from their implementation. The laws were published on June 5, 2014, and thus remain unaltered on June 5, the second. As shown in a paper with the bill, which I don't think is a very detailed review, the provision of recycling heat pumps in many parts of the country has been significant, particularly in so - called cold areas, in many parts of the country. Because of the high cost of home living, significant government resources have been set aside to reduce the energy costs of users in areas where they have been greatest. This has even been true. They are authorized to provide house - to - house expenses, such as when a non-heating apartment is held by electricity with the aim of ensuring access to energy at high prices, as shown by the cost of house warming. As suggested in the bill, action has also been taken, which is in the reimbursement of a valuable tax due to the purchase of a heat pump for warm-up housing. V.E.G. President. I don't think I need to follow the bill any more carefully and refer to the report. I suggest that the bill be referred directly to 2nd. at the end of this.
