ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u1	We've got a letter from the 7th. Witchest. "Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, 6th. Witchest. "The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Witchest. "Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, as well as from the chairman of the House of Independence on behalf of the 4th. S.H., Ásmundur Frirdur's Friðriksson, says that they will be absent at the next session in public affairs. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as a deputy of the 1st Specialist Party List in the Northwestern district, Stefán the Vagn of Stefánsson, 1st. A deputy of the National Parliament, Arna Lára Jónsdóttir, 1st of the left - left organization's bids, Bjarni Jónsson, and 2nd, a deputy of the Southern Independence Party, Kristín Traustadóttir, while 1 of the U.S.A. They have all been invited to serve at the General Assembly before, and they are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u2	By letter, dated October 18, 2019, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, are reporting reports on the Government Accounting System and the Waterland Park.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u3	On October 17, 232 issue, 232 editions of the Court's Supreme Court and Documents in Iceland were given the anniversary of the Supreme Court, referred to the General and Education Committee. However, the case was to be passed on to a management and monitoring committee and has already been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u4	Three letters have been sent by the secretary of finance and economics where the request is made to provide written answers to queries; on panels. 157, on the cost of government participation in the distribution of fuel and the building of a loading network, from Albertína Fjord of Friðbjörg's Elíasdóttir; on deck. 209, on exposés at Iceland, from Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Magnústir, and on deck. 201, for the number of workers in the European Parliament, and the salary of the administration by the Directors of Government, from Sæmundsson. A letter has also been received from the transport and rural administration minister where request is made to provide a written answer to a covering query. 154, on terms from real estate tax, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Minister, Minister of Justice, Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u6	President. National Hospital personnel have described the situation in the Agency as a state of emergency. The director of the hospital's nursing staff says the safety of patients is threatened. So I ask the highest. Minister: How do the Minister intends to respond to a medical emergency? Secondly, I ask if the highest. A minister does not realize that it is time for him to abandon his policy of moving ever more work into the Land Hospital. A convergence policy has been followed, with increased services even from abroad or from other institutions and into the Land Hospital. Is it not clear that this makes it difficult for the hospital and almost impossible to perform its specialized task? Is it not time for us to separate from the conglomeration policy at the Land Hospital and to expand our ministry in other institutions and other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The current health - care policy in Iceland is a medical conference for 2030 that was adopted by 45 votes at the General Assembly. It turns even. that the main points of importance in health care are not unnecessary to explain more fully who does what in the medical profession. It is about the service rendered at a land hospital to be the one at home. It can be said to be a twofold service, one of which is a third - degree service in health policy, is the service of the university hospital, and is finished when the most complex projects hit our shores, as well as the hospital is the regional hospital in southwestern. We have considered it at the General Assembly, but it has also been discussed at the scene of a land surgeon's office that we have an incident where services at a land hospital should truly be performed elsewhere. Then, first and foremost, I can think of what is meant by the fact that a number of elderly people who have had what is known as exercise and health care and should be in nursing homes. Today, it is now that we have opened up more room for medical care. We need to do better there. The other is when people go to the emergency room when health care should take care of the products. This is all being improved by the more clear policy we have on our level and by the introduction of health policy, it should be even more clear that the work of Land Hospitals will be done there and that projects from abroad will be carried out elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u8	President. I would've wanted more clear answers on how to reach the highest level. A minister will take up serving patients in more places than he is now, and I would have liked to hear the highest possible service. A minister wanted peace with various organizations and organizations that care for important aspects of health care but, in many cases, are financed and apparently, prior to government policy on improving cooperation and slightly saying very left - handed health policy. But I'm not going to ask about it. I'm going to reiterate my first question: How are you going to do the highest. Ministers respond to today's crisis? From the news it seems that it will not stand for any time. What's your chief plan? A minister will do to cope with this situation immediately?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u9	A respectable president. I know why. A senator may think it's a bit boring, but this is what happened here in June that 45 members of Parliament voted for a new health policy. It was not that spirit that was at work. A senator wants to work, i.e. to promote such divisions rather than solidarity. 45 members of Parliament translate the members of the administration party and members of two other political parties at the General Assembly, which means that there is widespread support for new health policies at the General Assembly. [[Answer the question.]] Where it is. A member in particular asks how to ensure that these factors are enjoyed where they are meant to be, so we are increasing the number of nurses to a major structure and that cooperation between health care and the emergency department has resulted in an increase of 10% in the number of nurses and people today go to the health care unit. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Environment Minister to congratulate you on the vice president's position. I do not question his firm will when it comes to climate action, but as VG's chairman said at a national meeting this weekend, you have had to make compromises and negotiate the progress of this government. It does not take much wisdom to realize that the distance between people in the first place, the larger the compromises need to be. This is especially reflected in action on climate. All too little is spent in this suit, and it's not just me saying it, it seems to be the view of the grass subclass as well. The VG National Summit concluded that protection would require 2.5% of land production to climate, as the United Nations International Committee demands. The present donations are far from this end of the sky and sea between the independent classes and the VGs of these substances. That would not be exactly why the resolution was changed before it was accepted and all the detailed goals taken out. So pleasant, however, is that at the same time, a platoon meeting of the United States adopted a large climate resolution with exactly the same objective adopted, 2.5%. So the union and the left green had not had to have made any compromises. They worked together in the government. That's why I'm asking simple questions, Mr. President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] All experts say that there is a need for time, measurable, and prosperous goals. So, first of all, do I ask, does a minister agree? And second, and so again: The highest number. Minister to left, will there be sufficient success in the state of climate through the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u11	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the invitation. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, 2.5% of national production, aims in a United Nations International Commission report to protect the proportion of global changes in energy systems worldwide. It is natural to know that in Iceland, part of this has been attacked, especially as a result of the thermal industrialisation process, and then as well as what is called electricity production. So I don't think it's right to go with this 2.5% figure for Iceland, but there's not a number yet. There is a more complex account example than that. I want to agree with that with what. A senator's timing and measurable goals are very important. We decided to submit our schedule, i.e. the first edition of it, in prior headers, and not all actions are timed or with measurable targets. We knew it well when we set it out. We thought it would be wise to start the operation, and that's what we've been doing, including. those involved in energy exchange in transport and carbon binding. There is an enormously important step there has been taken. But I agree with that. A senator says that we need to do better when it comes to setting standards, especially when it comes to what action to be performed. According to the Ministry now works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u12	Mr. President. I am disappointed that in one day since his formal entry into party work, a minister became the typical politician. Iceland is simply the world's greatest environment. The release of each one of us is greater than in general and has an average of e.g. In Europe. Despite the heat supply of the world and the heat supply of the land, we will no doubt have to protect this proportion in action. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Secretary that there is no mention of the emergency of climates at the conclusion. In the United States, however, we agree with the young people and would have thought they needed to be declared. We also agreed to aim for a 55% reduction of emissions by 2030 and that this target would be fixed in law. Can a minister agree with that, or does he feel a 40% contraction is enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u13	V.E.G. President. I don't know if I changed overnight. I was simply answering questions directly from the evidence available to me. It must be the senator's responsibility to judge for himself. I think we need to set a higher goal when it comes to climate. I agree with that. Senator. Now this year, all countries of the world involved in the Paris Convention must set up new goals under the treaty. Of these, some European countries have discussed that there must be 55%, and I believe there is something in general that needs to be looked into. Of course, Iceland will not become an EU boat when it comes to this. At least the person here feels that we need to be at least where we are. But let's see what's coming out of this. This has not been negotiated by the European Union, but, of course, Iceland and I are supposed to set the goal higher and aim for more contractions. [[The president calls.]] I agree with that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The Environment Minister is truly happy to be elected to vice president of the left movement to serve in the green. There are many things that I have disagreed with the fine category in the past, but many good things have come from him, especially in the field of the environment. I read it as the highest. In effect, a minister made himself available for the council, where he put special emphasis on nature. I welcome it, but I am also pragmatic and would like to hear how he is going to achieve further support for nature. Will he support our council decrees in resurgence, with what? paritaprevir Friðriksson Friduksson as a 1st transporter member, about better quality management of land use? Does he support those of us who want to change the catalysing system in agriculture that has contributed to overproduction and overproduction through environmental difficulties? Would he take advantage of it within the government to pick up the livestock contract on the grounds of rather focusing on farm strength to use land to support farmers, consumers, and especially the environment? The government with left-wing green has rightly been proud of the climate - related action program. After their declarations of left green, they obviously don't feel enough to boast about it for two years and want to do better than a total of 2040 that I support. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What will he do to change this? Will he use himself within the government by reinstateing its action plan on climate? Does he think that he will get all the governments to cooperate in these matters, or will he rely on us, the governmental groups that stress the environment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. I'd like to remind all of us that last December, new land - healing laws were approved at the General Assembly. They contain specific tools to cope with the problem. A senator mentioned the matter of application. It is also a major project on which land healing is directed in cooperation with farmers called GróLind, and it is about identifying how much of its insurmountability is in the country. According to a new agricultural law, a definition of sustainable land use is being made. When we get these tools in our hands, I think we will be much easier to deal with the problems that are certainly in some places when it comes to grumbling. These are key elements to work now. One of the instruments referred to in agriculture is a so - called geographer strategy to be taken in a situation that is not compatible with sustainable agriculture. This is something that is not unknown in the system as it is today, but is what we need to strengthen. We're also asked if we need to do better on climate issues. I think we all agree that we have to do better in climates all over the world. I'm sure I'd like to answer that question yes. Of course, we need to do better with climate in all parts of the world, and that is exactly what the government is working on. It has been identified by a postoperative operation based on the actions programme that we put before, and we are working to reevaluate it as currently indicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u16	Mr. President. I thank you for the answers, but I feel that there is a lack of answer to the content of the question, to the highest degree. A minister will use himself to pick up his contract, not just in terms of overproduction, but also of overproduction. Impulse systems are built into the livestock contract, and this adversely affects the environment. Very much. A minister will take advantage of the upcoming agricultural contract, that we begin to direct our strength to land use, and to support farmers on that basis? I reiterate that I am especially happy that we want to do better on climate issues. I think it's a very important statement by the Minister of the Government. I ask again, how will he get his colleagues on his way of changing the criteria for 2040 like left greens this weekend? How's the top? Ministers putting into practice the direction of the left green in the climate targets we will be supporting at the council? Would he like to adopt this on the side of his colleagues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u17	Mr. President. In effect, this question is, Where should we get better results? I've traced work to a review of climate-related measures, which, of course, go to the government at that point. Our left green set for the weekend the goal of going further than non-carbon in 2040. It's ambitious, but it's also very wise to do this, i.e. that we bind more carbon than our net emissions at that point. There we need to take every possible action. It may well be that farm contracts and some changes can be made to the agriculture. I can totally agree with what. A senator that may be considered. However, a reexamination of domestic agreements with sheep farmers has just been completed, and it is now being done with other habitats. It is natural to examine the overall context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u18	A respectable president. The situation at the Hospital is serious. Emergency control is not ensured, adequate public service is not ensured, and as a result, the safety of patients is threatened. While this condition is in the emergency room, it will take six hours to get out of the emergency room a wrong description, many days to wait. At the same time, hospital maintenance requirements are even greater. There are requirements for delaying maintenance, maintenance of drug costs, and staff use to reduce the number of people. They need people, e.g. Nurses, and they should stop paying nurses a watch load. I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is this normal? Has the situation become a life - threatening threat to emergency health care? What should be done in that condition? At the same time, the state's edge is out, there's been plenty of money, there's never been as much money as there's at the same time been cutting the Land Hospital - it's been cut to the bone, the bone's been scraped, and now it's starting to hack the skeleton. How will the minister handle this situation and make sure that those who attend the hospital are safe? We know it's not safe today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The fact is, as we watch the national expenses in Iceland and the scope of health care, health care is about 25% of the total expenses. That is an enormous proportion, of which the Landsaholic has a substantial share of a U.S. university hospital. This year the budget of land hospitals is 65.8 billion and will be about 69 billion next year, according to the bill by 2020. There is an increase of 4.8% between years. Just as other directors of health institutions and, of course, directors of all other institutions have to cope with holding their facility within the budget. That is what we know, and it is the reality of all who are involved. However, when there are concerns about the position of individual wards or activities in the hospital, it is the responsibility of a surgeon in charge of the case and the assessment. The last major assessment was made by a land surgeon due to a serious situation in the emergency department since December 2018. It has been repeated in the last few weeks with follow-up notice. There, the surgeon general's office had pointed to specific aspects of improvement, and in my second answer I further increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers respond, but we know that 70% of this cost is pay in the state. It tells itself that even if you give up money, they're worth billions of dollars. They're supposed to save about a billion and about 2.5 billion as a whole. At the same time, we're free of contracts from nurses. There is a lack of nurses and they are taking the remuneration that has been set up to hold the nurses. I'm just saying, how on earth does the minister intend to hold nurses at the same time as everything should be cut down? They're kind of adding pressure. Don't you think she's worried that there's gonna be a monster situation? It is already a fear - inspiring situation now, and if so much cuts are to be done at the same time, how does she expect the hospital to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u21	The president reminds us that it is a matter to be addressed to the president rather than directly addressed to individual senators or ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u22	A respectable president. As reported in the media and the leadership of the National Hospital, it has, in fact, tore up a legal committee and also to me at the Ministry of Health, the problem facing the Land Hospital today stems from different roots. One root is that. A senator notes, the fact that parts of previous pay increases - I'm talking about contracts signed for years - were not improved and are actually fully implemented in the last or last year. I think it's something to consider, and I'd like to remind you that the government is at the Council. I'd also like to say why. A senator of nurses and medical staff, in fact, mentioned why. A senator not the latter class, that this, of course, is absolutely a key. These are key classes and carriers in the creation of the Agency as nurse and medical personnel. I have high expectations that it will succeed in preparing decently for the benefit of these classes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u23	A respectable president. Now that Iceland has been put on the FAFF list of non-cooperative national defences against money fraud and terrorist funding, I would like to speak to the highest degree. Minister on what Þórður Snær Júlíusson, the editor of the reactor, has called, by permission of the President, the only clearest public means of money that has ever been carried out in the past. That's what he said in Silfrina yesterday. In Þórður, Snær, this reference is to the so - called Investment Guides of Iceland, which were started in 2012 and enabled some people to bring currency into the Icelandic economy and to earn 20% worth of currency prices over the public. A respectable president. A short time before the crash, there were some people who had access to information better than the general population at least Hundreds of billions of dollars were placed outside the landstones, and some of the money was placed in an African country. Some of these coins may seem to have belonged to the swellingers and were not taxated or taxated over their heads. On Þór Snær, October 17th, U.S.A. is described like this, by permission of a president: Through this process, the money hidden abroad in Iceland could be taken out by tens of the gang gangs, increased by 20 percent, and purchased property in Iceland from fire sale prices. Most important, at that time they obtained a proof of health evidence from the Federal Bank that their money was clean. Whether it was true or not. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is there any hope that we will be exposed to a gray list when the late bat is wide open for money? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister Whether it may not be a reason for her not to give information to the media about who took the lead and especially when the bank itself admits not to have a proper perspective on how much of the money the bank made that way came from own societies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, yet it must be made a note to the expression that this is Iceland's United States Council for financial resources. As a review of the UN investment route, which was intended to reduce money to the country during a very special period after a crash, the arrangement was so that financial companies had the means to communicate to the Secret Bank applications for participation in such currency expenditures, and it was to be careful to ensure that the planned investment met the requirements of theTO bank. The Commission, our surveillance agency, was to monitor that this participation was acceptable, to form in the light of the laws on how to handle the money thefts and the financing of terrorism. The F.O. was to confirm this against the Federal Bank. So the surveillance was in the hands of our surveillance agency, so money cannot be said to have entered the country without any supervision. This has even been true. The secretary's comments to the council's inquiries are presented to form in response to any question. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. The currency exports had the intention of freeing the snow - handed land. They were won this way. The same has been true since then. A senator said that what had not come from areas defined as low taxes was 2.4% of the total budget of 120 billion. Hv. A senator asks about this matter and whether it is not right for the General to adopt it. I would suggest that either the World Economic and Business Committee of the Generals or the Commission, where possible. A senator is now presiding, reviewing the report that the Navy specifically published on the bank's currency tenders in August. and has not been reviewed at the Council of II according to my information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u25	A respectable president. I'm asking about a report made self-investigating about himself and his investment, which says that it is not the role of Iceland's Secret Bank, by permission of presidents, to issue justice in the community, by identifying between the desirable and undesirable investors, deserving and unworthy of their own. He admits that he did not at all have a perspective on where this money came from and that this 2.4% number may not have been 100% correct. He also admits that the way was not equal, that it has contributed to negative effects on property division, has potentially opened up funds, and has enabled undesirable rich people to move to Iceland times the money of foreign land. So says Iceland's Secret Bank, which examined itself. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not reason for the Council to examine the person who examined himself? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u26	Mr. President. There's a special question about money laundering. The F.O. was designed to monitor whether the investments were a law on how to handle the money - floundering and terrorist funding. It was the SEC to monitor that financial companies, which were intermediate or molded in this relationship with the Federal Bank, handle matters correctly. I think it's important to keep it in place that it wasn't the role of the Navy bank at this time but that it was the SEC. In view of what happened. However, a member of the Parliament would understand that the General Assembly and the appropriate General committee would review the Secret Bank report, investigating whether the Allied Council and the Commission and the Commission, or the Economic and Business Committee, would have no questions there. That's what I thought was normal. In fact, I would have thought that as soon as this report arrived, it should have been considered by the General. I think it's normal the next step in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to let me ask you the highest. Education Minister on operations to strengthen a university career in the country and to help ensure their funding. Abnormality of the work of Icelandic universities has been built up in the region, and lack of funding has fueled reverse development. In this regard, it is only right to enter especially the highest. Secretary of education, according to her attitude and plans for the universities of the country, the University of Akureyri, and the Bifrost and the agricultural schools of Innunna and Hólar, especially because of their continued independence. Furthermore, I ask of the construction of their research projects in the country. I especially want in the highest. Education minister to see if she agrees with the people listed here for saving a considerable amount of money and at the same time sponsoring the field of agriculture at Isthmus in the Netherlands by moving there his research activities, which are now carried out at the Keldnaholt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for looking for equals for study and the construction of the university level throughout the country. Of course, I'm very proud of it and happy to be able to say that we are achieving the OECD average in 2020 for each student's financial contributions. That is one of the things the government said it would do in the government covenant. It's going around. Under the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, we are really supporting and strengthening the university. Regarding the question that was specifically presented in the matter of why. I'd like to mention that we have very powerful university institutions in the country, the University of Hólar, the National Institute of Innunciation at the University of Innunciation and the University of Akureyri. We're setting up a knowledge center, we have an association network of public colleges, and we have a special explanation for our policy in a community strategy. We have been strengthening special research work at the University of Hólar, and we want to continue to strengthen it as much as possible. During the year, researchers developed the fishing track on Hólar, a large strength from Ranni's so - called panoramic strength, which is, of course, a great recognition of a powerful research project. I'd like to have my second answer come to more universities in the country and what policy was there. But I would also like to mention that what I believe is the most important thing about the development of education in the country is that students may choose to pursue national education. We are to put in certain incentives to make that choice possible. In most parts of the world, for example, in the North and U.S.A., it is very few to hear that the person goes to study in the city where he is raised. But we also need something to change our thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of education for the answers and for further stressing that it defends the independence of the region and eliminates any uncertainty about it. This was a well - versed network of the colleges in the country that was established during the minister of Katrín, the Jakobsdóttir of James, at the Ministry of Education. How successful it has been, and how important it is to continue strengthening that work! This needs to be further supported by the construction of a national study that is being conducted there and controlled in the country. So I give high priority to the minister that it needs and should move the research of Iceland's Farming University, now held up in Copenhagen, thus strengthening the status of the local school and educational work. I would love to hear a minister's attitude toward it and whether she agrees with me in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u30	A respectable president. Of course, we want to protect the independence of the university both here in the capital area and in the country. It's very important. I also have strong faith that we, whether at the university, at the college, or at the gym or wherever it is, have powerful leaders, and there is a clear holding on all policy plans. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of the independence of the university level anywhere in the country. Regarding the developments that have been at the Landing School of The Netherlands, it is in preparation, such as at the turn of the century. A senator knows, the transfer of agricultural experiments from Korpa to the Netherlands. We are taking an extensive renewal of the school home to smoke, which is the center of plant production and climatic production. I'd say that the work we're doing right now at the entire university is really getting back, both here in the capital area and in the country. But I would also like to encourage us to remember that there are also some changes in our attitude if we want to promote education in the whole country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u31	Mr. President. It has been kind of a game to try to figure out how the government sees the future banking system here on the land and how the State operates. In Lárus of this year, the Blöndal of the Bank Office said that preparation would take time and that, in particular, the government needed time, the Bank Board would not have much work to propose to the sale of banks unless the government was ready to accept that proposal. V.E.G. The minister of education, the vice president of the Future Party, said in an interview in the explosion of September 8, that it was essential for sales of the State's holdings in the banks that the government policy would be updated. Hv. paritaprevir The left green, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, published an article in the September 18, issue of News magazine in which he described his view that the opportunity to make changes should be made when the State has such a big share in the banking system and suggests that a bank in the state - owned will become an investment bank in climate. On September 26, the highest said. Secretary of the budget that he was hoping for the next few weeks to come up with a proposal from the Bank Office that could be submitted to the council for sale of the State in the banks. The banking agency has already said that it will not unless the government is united in selling. Are they? Hopefully, we will get a clearer picture of the end of this discussion. I don't think it's time to prepare the sales of banks as long as government debates or policy plans for the future financial systems have not been established. The tracks are frightened when the two of the same classes are now in the government, and the last time the banks were sold with consequences that do not need to be reminded of who became. It is necessary to ensure public access to the necessary banking services and that the cheapest possible payment media is available to all. The banks provide the necessary services that concern all of us. They work as employees, increase their savings, and provide loans for housing or other projects related to the management of households and businesses. But as matters are now being done at the same time, investments are sometimes highly risky, funded by public savings. Government banks should be drawn out of such activity. It can create a space for competition in areas where savings are not being used by the public with the internal insurance guarantee for financing of risky investments. Only the separation of a business bank, which is funded by loans and investment banking, which are not financed by loans can prevent the public from taking the risk of financial investments. V.E.G. In the bank, finance ministers and others have reasoned that the use of banks is risky. In fact, selling property into banks is not going to free the state from the risks of banks that store local customers. In any case, the government's going to come up with a systematic key bank to rescue them if they're going to fail. Mr. President. The risks and costs of investments that go to the fore are to be exclusive to those who engage in risky business, not to the common people. Therefore, while the state is the largest owner of the banking system, it has to be understood from business banks. Banking is not the same as any other type of law. Banks are not like traditional stocks on markets. They are more like service, self-proved service to the public. Research shows that the public has a positive view of the state's running of banks. The public does not have much confidence in the entire banking system but trusts the State to run banks. A Gallup survey published in the White Book on the banking system shows that only 14% wants a private driver to run the banks. More research shows that the greater part of the country's customers who have two banks do not want to be the top priority. The secretary of finance seems to like to have in the process of putting the shares of the state in the banks into the hands of a private member. The question of what the future banking system should be so that it serves the public as far as it has not been answered by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking a person for her interest in this case and for taking up a discussion on Icelandic banking systems and selling parts of the state in banks. Hv. A senator is a former minister who spoke for a bill a few years ago, in 2012, when it was. It was time for a senator to consider selling financial companies owned by the State. That's what they said. A senator for a bill that became legal today's law on the sale of financial assets. During the ensuing talk, there was a problem. A senator at that time, with the permission of a president: The evidence thus gives no grounds for the State to become a long - term owner of a financial holding section. Rather, it releases them by sales. In fact, the state had only a 5% share in Iceland banks at the time, so it was more likely to be watching the sale of property items at Arion Bank and Bank, but quite clear will. A senator appeared six years ago to work to loosen the possession of the state on banks that resulted from the collapse. That's why something's gonna blow when it's the same thing. A senator comes up here now and tells the secretary of finance is in great haste. It's been six years since night. A senator spoke as a financial minister for the bill. I'm gonna go over the state of this case for a minute. It is true that the government is responsible for ensuring a healthy and stable financial system by means of a firm setting, active order, and maintenance. The government made it very important for the government to work on the future affairs of the financial system and for its work to be based on a White Paper on a vision for the rest of the financial system. In November of the first year, that white book became clear, and there were many suggestions on how measures were made in order to prepare for a change in the state's ownership for the future and to improve the provision of the market. We've been working on these suggestions. I can mention work to minimise the harmful effects of the Influx Sea, as well as to the fact that bank tax decommissionation bill is currently being used in Congress, a high priority is put in the White Book. That bill will provide financial contributions to reduce interest rates and raise interest in customers. Clearly, that change would improve the survival of the company's homes and business environment. This legislature body will then be submitted a legal bill to limit investment banking activities. A senator comes in here, and we know that the committee has been doing some research on the issues and specific proposals on which the bill is based. In the next few weeks, it will be published in a court of agreement with the government, but plans for making a contribution have already been presented. In addition, an important and extensive legal bill will be submitted to implementing the European Commission's restoration and recycling directives, which greatly increases government resources to respond if banks fall into trauma and limit the damage of society. With all of this in mind, I believe that we have worked hard on the issues most important to prepare for the change in government ownership. In terms of the tenure policy, a review of the state's tenure policy is being made for property shares in financial companies. The main emphasis on this change is, first of all, that the state will continue to be the leading investors in the Lands Bank for a long time, secondly guaranteed that one systematic key bank will always have a headquarters in Iceland, and third, to contribute to the stability of the financial system and its necessary infrastructures, including the payment services, and fourthly to the advantage of all citizens of the country's general, legal, and financial services. During 2016, Iceland's bank was occupied with stability, and it was discussed in a way that was viewed as being the short - term property of the State. It is not clear, however, how to unwind the property. In this government, the last one, the government there, and the left government in 2009-2013 have been looked to to to reduce the possession of the State. Government budgets have assumed that the amount of money that would result from the sale would come to lower the State's interest costs. In fact, it has been said that the interest cost has gone to the extent that we had intended to use financial companies to lower it, but we still hold our assets. I view it as an enormous opportunity to change our ownership, but the problem lies in how we can with methodology best care for the overall interests of the state and the goals we are here. It's a conversation we need to have better with the Bank Office, whether we should go to some sort of registration process, an invitation, or a better way to reach our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u33	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion that I think is very important. I point out that this is a very large and important case. The banking system in the country is an important field for financial exchange, and it is of great importance for the economy as a whole. When it comes to the organization of the banking system, especially as part of the government, we need to hurry when we are talking about decisions. So it says, as here has been reviewed, that it is considerable. This, of course, involves much opportunity. The possibility is that the State can, in the power of its considerable property parts, have a powerful bearing on what will be the order of banks in the future. Recent decision-making is a careful policy development based on careful discussion. V.E.G. A minister recalled that this was a detailed report, the so - called White Book, and it is good as far as it goes. The point is that we must take care to make good use of the opportunities we have to make decisions about the arrangements of these matters in a successful and successful way to the future in behalf of Icelandic interests, Icelandic households and Icelandic employment companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. Oddný It's a G. Harðardóttir for bringing up this important subject. Like what? Members of the Parliament are aware of this in the government covenant, including the government. looking for ways to reduce the share of the empire's property in the banking system. As already noted, that is not the first time. This recession on property, if we can call it that way, it is important that public interests be viewed in that respect, looked to the interests of which we as governments are to protect specifically from the public in the country. That's when it's time. A senator mentioned the separation of investments and private banking services which I consider very important. I think it's one of the chemicals that should especially be looked at in this regard. We must also remember that banking is all changing. Great changes are taking place in all banking services around the world, and there are opportunities and threats to this matter and the need to keep that in mind. Finally, I agree with the language that goes on. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has an average of in a newspaper article, that it may be flat watching to start a so-called green bank or climate bank, as I think it might have mentioned the idea. That could be a very exciting option. Like what? Congressmen are known throughout the world as green investment funds, which are generally known to me as a good idea, and a green bank could be the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u35	A respectable president. By permission of the President: During the weekend, financial status was almost nonstop. I can claim that all those who came to that table tried so hard that banks and financial institutions could continue today, and the benefits of their weekend work made it possible for last night's banks to move forward. That is what Geir H. Haarde, then prime minister, stated on a address to all the people of the country on Monday, October 6, 2008, just over 11 years ago, shortly before asking God to bless Iceland. About four hours earlier that day, a phone call was made between prime minister and bank manager, a phone call that cost Icelanders at the end of 35 billion dollars. According to the Core on the matter. A phone call revealed that the Lands Bank would be destroyed that day and that it was seen the following day. On October 7, and Copenhagen, on the night of October 9, the F.S.A., the government of the Lands Bank and Glitnis completed a six - year private operation of banks in Iceland. If we are to have a vision of the future, we must first learn from the past. What have we learned from the collapse? It's enough to get us on a money list. We have learned so much that we do not even know the answer to the question, How is it going? It's been one year and almost eight months to report the status of projects on a list of what General's research reports told us we needed to do. One year and almost eight months, and not ready yet. I'm not a religious man, but it's appropriate to say to this occasion: Guð forbids us from the independent party and the forward party selling the banks again. If I was a VG, I'd disappear if I did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u36	V.E.G. President. We're discussing Icelandic banking systems and possible sales of State parts. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, and a top. The secretary of the budget for his input into the discussion. Of course, the development of the business environment must be examined, and in view of the valuable things recorded in the books of the State, and we must consider what is wise to do in order to use it at the same time as we secure the system that serves the public best, as it were. The advisor brought up the matter. There has been a long talk about separating business banks from investment banking, but because of the limitations of competition, we may not have taken that step. Similarly, when we discuss how the government operates, we must have the same effect. Of course, some of the reasons why it is wise to rid the property of the State are not easy to answer the question of how and who to sell. We're at the highest point. The government wants to reduce the possession of the banks, as foretold in a government contract, and has been working to achieve it progressively, including the United States. with a version of the White Books, which provides basic objective of trust, transparency, and stability, which are key elements to consider. They must always be the standards, as well as the conclusion of the White Book, to remove property or property - and that may be the most important thing - is that the banking system always operates in community interests. This is primarily the role of the government at hand and the highest. The minister of finance and economics went through well in his speech earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a difficult case for a Harðardóttir of mine to bring up this important matter. There is a search for government policy as a result of banks sale, and it appears that statements are constantly contrary to what sort of individuals they come from. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has repeated policy of reducing the government's ownership of financial markets and I think it's urgent and long-term. The government's sovereignty in a financial market is not healthy for the financial market, so I always feel like we're surmounting in this discussion how we're leading the financial system through legal and fictitation or by property. It follows that here, in this hall, the legal structure of financial markets is shaped and very important to continue to develop and subtract it. A lesson from a fall, as well as from the challenges ahead in the financial system, how we open financial services between countries, how we provide the benefit to the public of the great change that takes place through the development of financial technology, and a great decrease in various fees, interest costs, and so on. Sadly, this has not enabled us to live up to the trend that has taken place abroad. There is a great expense for a Icelandic home, as well as a Icelandic company. Therefore, I really hope that we will begin to understand the discussion of ownership, but neither should we lose sight of this vital task. We need to protect the interests of consumers and Icelandic companies, and this will not be done by the holding of the State on banks. This will be done by making sure that we live here on the same type of design, orderwork, and opportunity that we see in our neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u38	A respectable president. We're talking about the banks, and thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion and finance minister, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for being present. I agree with what. paritaprevir Björn Leví, we have to watch our backs. We're supposed to be careful, we've been burning up. The people demand that we be careful about this matter. Sort of puts a chill in my head as soon as banks are mentioned. A latest play is at the Bank of Iceland, where it's going to build a hell of a place that's most expensive in town. I have no faith in anything other than that the cost will be in the range of 101⁄215 billion. At the same time, surgery by the health system is required. The emergency department of the Land Hospital is not up to date. The hospital is starving. It's supposed to cut down billions of dollars, but it seems like the banking system - just because it's called Landsban, but it belongs to the State, it can't be maintained. The people are demanding, and I'm telling you, we can't talk about selling the banks without the people coming in. We should just have a nation meeting about it, get the people involved. If we're going to proceed without her, I'm afraid exactly what happened last time. We know how it turned out, we know how it was sold in its time. We know that it was so named that a German bank was buying, but it was never part of it. We know about the trick that was used, and we know the consequences. We also know exactly who it took. The people of the land, the people who lost their dwellings, and a large crowd of thousands, have yet to answer on the property of that group, and who took them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u39	Mr. President. Here the government has been talking about the national risk and, as a result, the taxpayers have become involved in financial schemes. But I'd like to turn it around, Mr. President. Consider the risks common people face when almost the whole banking system is run by private workers. It took only four years for a private banking system to submerged here last, on a world-historic failure in which the loss was nearly half of all of the Marshall aid in the United States to all European countries after a devastating war. Similarly, it is fascinating to see that the personal experience of Orion's bank seems to be having quite a problem over the other two federal banks. Anion issued a warning exactly a week ago, Mr. President. Of course, privates will play a role in a financial market, but should we not view the financial market as if we consider other systems that the State comes to? That the government should own only one third of the financial market, as this government would like to show what its interests are. Mr. President. In view of the fact that just over ten years have since here a complete collapse in a private banking system, I wondered why it is so important for the bank to be private in the latter part of this term. Is it possible that certain banks should be guaranteed? Mr. President. I was once told that whoever owns a bank in Iceland will own Iceland. Is it not enough of property compression in Iceland, especially in view of the fact that the 5% richest Americans have almost as much as the other 95%? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u40	Mr. President. I believe few mediamen have more knowledge and understanding of the financial system than Ægisson, editor of the Council. At least I read. everything he writes with great interest, thinking that it would be good if other members of the council did the same. I'm gonna get to give a witness with the highest permission. A president in a fraction of his writings in the December issue of News News. Here, he put it this way: ▪ A modern - day system - an unfashionable banking system that produces less profit and is largely in the State - includes poor treatment of taxpayers' funds and emphasizes the importance of others taking the risk of banking. It will be a challenge for the banks to make better use of money, especially when government laws are much higher than those of other European banks, while they seek all ways to adapt their business models to increase competition for new financial players. It will take time, at least five to ten years, to get the banks out of the state to invest in investors who will have them in the long run, and it is important to be careful and to maximise the recovery of state funds. So many were words, and I agree with each of them. I think that the greatest challenge we face is to make sure that there are some who are willing to take the chance of having and running banks and making sure that there are banks available to provide individuals, homes and companies necessary services and, using probe, a weak banking system in Iceland, the first and last occurrence of individuals and small and mediums of companies because big companies have a choice of business with such a weak banking system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u41	Mr. President. There are a number of things to discuss when it comes to the banking system. One is the high cost rate which has long been well characterised by the banks here. Today the number of bank workers has fallen greatly. In a sense, the banks have been able to produce a reduction in their numbers by turning their clients into unsalaried employees, such as all known workers who have worked at home, at home. There are big and big things to worry about. One is a matter of separating investment banks and business banks, a very important point. I must tell you, it is somewhat Spanish to see that a bank largely owned by the State has a big plan for a very large investment in a large building below a dock that will undoubtedly prove to be very expensive. It is odd to see that, also, in view of the predictable trend that has been going on for some time, and I was saying that banking will not be stuck in time. It's changing and it's going to continue to decrease in the banking system. The building of this great house is very peculiar, and I understand the highest. A minister is as if it had nothing to do with him. I'm not gonna park the highest. A minister may speak words, but, of course, a minister, if he wanted to, might employ himself in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u42	Mr. President. This is an important discussion about the Icelandic banking system. The public is naturally interested in these matters, being burned by the collapse. So I like that we are here for a special discussion of this matter and reflect on various factors involved in the banking system. As for the vision of the future, I believe it is important for a solid state of the banking system and for the banking system to be solid. I believe a part of it is that there are high-end financial requirements and there are surveillance agencies that have the ability to monitor the banking system. This is also important because confidence in the banking system is low and it has to do with the burning of people from the banking system. However, I don't think that you should overread what the Constitution says about selling the banks. It is said to reduce property. It's quite different from selling the whole thing. I think it's important that there's a separation between business banking and investment banking, and I also think it's important that we talk about it now when we're discussing the change of state property on banks how it can be made up into the future. [[The president calls.]] There's a green bank or a climate bank that can be important because it can become part of the climate discussion and we can benefit from that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u43	Mr. President. In April 2010, many failed in the privatization of the state banks, which are carefully reviewed in a report made by the Council's Research Committee for Intervening and the cause of the fallout of the 2008 banks. In addition, we received a special report on a foreign study of purchases at 45.8% holdings in Iceland's Farm Bank, particularly on the virtual participation of the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuser. I'm sure we've learned something from those reports. The figures and actors that were concomitantly in commercial and political circles refuse to step aside and are still playing and working in this integrated political and commercial empire. There is no basis for selling the banks when they're at the highest level. The minister of finance himself is so close to the commercial interests that his rights are not entirely beyond doubt. The people must enjoy the doubt, rather than the minister. We still have too big a banking system. We haven't parted our investment and business banking yet. It might be reasoned that we ourselves have provided public money bullshit through the Secret Bank and are now on a gray list. This is not an ideal situation for the government to attack a second - time bank. The first time failed miserably, with disastrous consequences for society all, total collapse. We have a long way to go before we can start selling banks. Homework is all after I know it. I'd like to know how to do it. Secretary of finance intends to solve the cases I covered and to keep the government's number two bankers from becoming as bad as the first. What he mentioned earlier, I cannot tell, is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u44	V.E.G. President. Whether, when, when, and why should the kingdom be sold in one bank or in all - or not? Clear management, transparent information supply, open and transparent sales process - what does this mean for transparency? Can transparency be replaced by market interests? There's always a limit to transparency, let alone business. The key point here is access to information. The common people need to rely on political decisions, but how much involvement should politicians take from banks? We'd like to keep the arm length at a time convenient but be able to secure the operation when we don't like where we're heading, such as the construction of the U.S. National Bank headquarters, now located nearby. The discussion must also be a matter of course, no matter how those in authority feel about what to do. The story we know and we've been over it here. Lack of confidence in one politician can run into all politicians and all the politics. Thus political and political distrust becomes systematic. No doubt some politicians feel more confident in making decisions about sales and/or bank unity. Should business plans or arrangements, such as social banks, be changed? Is the bank activity in Iceland too big? Is unchanged the best solution? That is why the discussion presented here is of great importance and need, and there are truly many questions. Above all, be careful, be informed, be informed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u45	A respectable president. You're talking about the possible sale of banks and it's a requirement for society to come to a community bank. I think we should totally examine it. We are to have a bank that is strictly a work of community service. We are to learn from experience. I'm afraid of the frightening thought that we're going back to selling our banks to privates. We don't have to look far back, we were discussing the small loan companies - and we can't handle them. We can't stop the little loan companies. How are we going to manage selling the banks without changing the rules without separating investment banks and business banks? Whom will we trust? The F.O.? The F.O. was there when everything went down here. The F.A. shows that it's not working. When and if we finally found any solution to selling the banks, I would say that it was a requirement for us to make that decision in a national law. Let the people decide. Is she willing to decide to sell another trip to the public banking system, allowing some indiscretions to use this principle in money matters? If we go out into this trade, we are under obligation to look after it now that it will be completely transparent and that the nation will have the last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u46	Mr. President. I appreciate your participation. Minister and minister. Though I had no further discussion with members of this discussion, the members of the board of directors want to take their position in these matters. V.E.G. Secretary of finance wants to work for the ideas of white books on the future of the banking system. The White Book has been hard to criticize for being designed for ideologies and economics, who were shipwrecked in the 2008 collapse of the bank, a new thought lacking in the White Book, written for those who may want to buy parts in the banks, and who want to establish a system of banking that best serves the public. The White Book encourages the removal of the bank tax in order to sell the banks. Although it may be normal for the financial companies themselves to be paid to the community, there is little way paying taxes to become the focus of government policymaking on the future of the financial system, as one might expect from the discussion. Come on, let's go slow. There's no hurry. A unique opportunity is now being made up of two thirds of the banking system belonging to the state and an environment entirely different from that of seven years ago. As soon as we've always been guided by the public's interest in policy development, we need to look into the technical technologies that are now exerting themselves to see where they're leading us. In such uncertain times, it is important that the State hold a large part of the banking system and protect the public from carrying the risks to the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u47	A respectable president. I have to say, there's no room for a person to feel that the discussion about this series of issues would not change, even if the law and regulations, the whole act of order, has changed dramatically. There are senators asking, "What's changed? That is a good question because it was just under the headline What Has Changed? in 2016, a special large report was compiled by financial organisations showing how the financial market is completely changed. We've continued to change the rule, and today I've given examples of bills that have come up, laws that have recently been adopted and bills in the lake to follow up the proposals, including from the white book that I'm going to protest was badly received. She was very well received, even at the council. It is an important input into a discussion about financial status, comparison with other countries, and the need for changes in order to further strengthen financial support. Here was an open discussion to discuss the government's plans for ownership, and I have made it clear that here the adverb is the one who long ago recommended a bill to legalize the financial assets of the State and follow through the statement that it was time to consider selling the property of the State. That is why I feel that when the same people come up here many years later and say, "I'm not supposed to hurry up. What we're doing is taking care of ourselves. We're working very transparently on this. We do this on the basis of a work that has taken a lot of time and ambition, and there I am referring to the White Book. I also include the message in this discussion that it is not obvious how the State should reduce its financial share. There are different ways. We need to consult the Bank Office, and then there are also factors that we have no control over that will be able to determine when it is time and wise to take the step. [[The president calls.]] All of this needs to be evaluated. There are a number of details we need to discuss later that need to be considered in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u48	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Economic and financial secretary on equal terms to the payment of different government professions. I've asked the highest. Minister before this case. A little over a year ago, a synonym was proposed by members of the Parliament to the government for further work. When I asked the highest. During the last assembly, a minister of affairs had little to answer, and it seemed that even though years have passed since the government took up that assignment, it was a very small matter. My questions are all four: How do negotiations with the labour market and local representative support ways to ensure equality with the remuneration of different government professions? How many meetings have been offered to discuss these issues? What decisions have been made about the next steps? What is the result of analysis, if such an analysis, of remuneration of different professions, including to present a sex-gain pay from the government approved on the basis of the aforementioned synonym adopted at the Council of June 11, 2018? Today, there is a debate with the overall public staff, and the new outcome is a very large labour contract in the general labour market. It was disappointing to look at the signing of collective labour agreements in the general labour market as to the small attention given to this important matter. While we lack a better diagnosis of this, we certainly know the fact that many public classes, prominent women's classes, such as carers and teachers, do not enjoy their secular education to the level of what is going on, and do many other things in more male classes, e.g. looking at engineers, lawyers, or other such classes. For years it has been pointed out that this is a very important point for the inferior rates of women in general, including women. in women at the end of their working life in terms of significantly less pension than men, including of a systematic lower salary through its working years. I hope that the government has the ambition to handle this matter, but I would like information from the highest level. A minister on what is then being done and how it is being used by the current collective contract to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u49	A respectable president. As shown in the church arrangement referred to, her objective is, including her. working in equal terms with the pay of different government-based professions and also in recognition of the salary of different professions. So it was in my answer to a similar request last spring said that in the field of the jurist Council, which is a formal meeting area of state and rural society, including Reykjavíkurburg, the common dress policy of this party has been adopted. The aim of the dress policy is even to ensure equality in the remuneration of public employees, as required by the Congress resolution, and also to increase the level of pay and other ideals and to ensure that the government's competitiveness in the labour market. The dress policy also shows that public employers work together to improve pay statistics and the collective use of information on pay and pay development. It's not just a word in the book. The work of public employers is large, formal and informal, and cooperation is consistent with policy aims. Then these points will also be discussed in terms of collective agreements. Thus, there is a regular coverage of the subject among individuals in the public labour market. However, up to now no formal meetings have been held specifically on this subject as such with the labour market agents. During the council arrangement, as well as in a talk. When the proposal was submitted, a senator and a candidate assumed that the remuneration of the remuneration of large groups of women, such as teachers and health professionals, will be undertaken as compared to other classes of comparable education and responsibilities employed by the public. This is the same diagnostic work that takes place in a team set up in accordance with an agreement signed on September 19, 2016, for the changes in the welfare system of public employees. The task force is appointed representatives of the government's employers, partners of the country, and Reykjavíkurburg, along with three representatives of the European Commission of the European Union. The objective of this work is to balance the pay between the public and the general market. The analysis work is required to reach objective conclusions in these materials, but it is also useful in evaluating the salary distribution and the share of the remuneration of the various public professions. In this way, it meets the requirements of the synopsis and is useful in this regard. The results of the analysis work are not yet available, but in due course it will also be an important contribution to achieving the objectives of this synonym. The service group has regularly met, and the work progresses well. I also allow myself in this regard to point out that in May. The workforce was signed by the government and the workers under agreement on the role and application of the new tropostry committee. The Committee is the partner of the total labour market and rural organisation for the production and implementation of statistical financial and financial data to prepare and follow-up of collective agreements. The Committee is aimed at promoting a common understanding of the nature, character and development of the economy involved in the implementation of collective agreements. The organisation's organisation and its work as expected can be expected that, in a long time, statistical information on pay and the quality of diagnostic work will be improved as well. At the end, I'd like to mention something very brief, and thus repeat my words from spring to spring, that we are here discussing a subject that is a bit complex. It's not quite simple, there are no simple answers. It will not be resolved by any single means, by any sudden effort, but more important is that the matter is discussed and that we are constantly at work. As I have traced, many areas of conversation with the workforce are taking these matters into consideration, and we are moving in the right direction, I believe. On the other hand, experience says, and I think that why. A senator knows very well himself from his previous job, comparing, for example. Between the private sector and the public sector, there can be tremendous tension, and even if there are numbers in front of them, they always have some explanations and background, and it can be difficult to attach fingers to exactly every right place that should be taken along in such comparisons. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for the discussion. This is a very important subject, and I hope that in this terms, we will make significant effort to improve in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, though, that I must express disappointment in it, for little has changed in these matters since I last asked questions about them. It is very sad to see that this refers to an analysis work that began three years ago and is not yet completed. We're in a government deal session these days and these weeks. This resolution was proposed in the fall of 2017, just to make it possible for it to fit into the coming crisis session that is about to be concluded. It should be noted that there have been long-term labour agreements in the general labour market. It is probable that local labour agreements will be made to a similar length, which tells us that nothing will actually happen in these matters, at least not at the level of collective agreements, for the next three years. I think it's quite a bit of consciousness for a government who thinks he's got it and says that he's got a lot of ambition for equality. I realize that it is a complex matter, and it is not easy to grasp. Hence, it was emphasized in the council resolution at the time that this diagnostic work would be done so that we could get a clearer picture of what is going on. While we generally agree that this difference in pay is present, we do not know exactly what it is or whether there may be other explanations on it. As a result, there is great disappointment that nothing has happened about the analysis itself. We are still awaiting a conclusion there, and, of course, it is clear and clear ambition on the part of the government in these matters that this interpretation has clearly not been guided in the present dress interview, nor will it be interpreted as anything different than that the government has no interest in attacking the current wages. This seems to be the exact answer I received at last assembly: There is nothing being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u51	A respectable president. I believe I've been referring to the work that is being done in this field and on this subject, and in other words. ... toTranséTransector. On the other hand, there is also one measure of how governments are successful in working on this work, that we have recently seen contracts made in the general public market, and that we are in the public sector that I have an excellent hope to get a successful result. In the end, there is one of the most important indicators on how governments have found work surfaces for the workforce, see how it is possible to create peace in a labour market. I'm not going to extend the discussion any further. Thank you. A senator for taking up an important issue because balance is important, and cases over the decades may not have received normal attention. There may be many who work together to reach that goal. In recent years, too, a number of factors have been made with regard to the sex pay paid by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u52	Mr. President. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has worked as a pioneer during a long - term conference, i.e. A steady review of policy in the other and these journal groups. I mention climate policies, innovation policies, health policies, energy policy, air policy, and other factors, but there is also another species of policy. We used to call it a owner's policy - for a government company. We've got a policy to set up for e.g. Istavia and Landicization in the Government Treaty. Istavia's family policy involves much in the survival of the State and ours, as well as in politics. I mention, for example. The flight issues, both national and international flights, the sustainability of tourism, the management of airports and the tolerability of tourism. Somewhere there is a limit of endurance, concerning how much we can receive from both flights and tourists in our country. This also involves transport policies and transport plans and, of course, the global climate. National activation policy has much to do with it. For example, the management of our energy resources, energy efficiency criteria and nature protection, and thus the balance between these factors. It involves energy policy in the light of climate, it's being won now, it's not fully advanced, and the sustainable concept heard more and more frequently in this room. Then, of course, in both of these cases, there are organizational matters and the level of government. It's been quite a while and a lot of work to do. I've asked the highest. Minister to this once before in general discussions. Then it was at the point of being properly prepared. But now I'd like to repeat those questions in another form and ask what is at the market policy of these two government companies, Istavia and Landing. In other words, how far have we come, and how are we involved? Then I'm more concerned about what you're taking. And finally: When can the Allied Council be expected to get their corporate policy for discussion? So these are three questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss these matters at the council. First, I'd like to refer to the general government policy for partnerships and partnerships from 2012 and like the government's ownery policy for financial companies. The general policy applies to a partner in C State Fund and is also taken into account by society in Period B as appropriate. The government's holding policy for financial companies was reviewed in 2017, reaching out to the financial institutions over which the government's banking agency supervises. So, like other societies in the majorityitution of the state, there is a policy of owneries for both liters and Istavia. There is a review of the general government policy at the Ministry. By saying it's in the interest of a tenant policy, I'm referring to this general tenant policy. It explains the general principles and objectives of the State, with its ownership and management, along with its success criteria, policies on governance and communication. At the same time, there are specific rules on the selection of government officials in government governments and are expected to become part of the general tenant policy. In addition to the above work, an Annex has been made to the general employment policy that will set out specific criteria and objectives for individual sectors or companies, as needed. It is emphasized that such supplementes will be short and specific and will not include repetition of the standards set out in the general government policy. The question is, How far have we come into the process of such an Annex for Landing and Istavia especially? All I can tell you is that this work is going on. She's been fine. I would have liked to see more progress in it, though we have regularly sat together on the Minister's Committee and discussed the issues we in the board feel that it is important to be discussed in such events. This has helped to further the work. It's been taken into account in the development of air traffic and rural policy, and it's considered normal for the Istavia event to take into account the flight policy. It is aimed to determine that the Annex on Istavia will be published for discussion over the next few weeks accordingly. A government contract suggests that land requisition policies take into account the energy policies currently being produced by the Department of Employment and Development. Since the approval of the energy policy, the work has been proposed to an Annex to the owner's policy for an energy company and is aimed for its publication. Only on how we have been carrying out these assignments. There have been informal consultations on the subject matter of this appendix. Negotiation policies, or criteria, have been considered for similar communities in neighboring countries, and we have also considered the guidance of international government institutions. Government policy has then been considered in areas related to the activities of individual communities or sectors. General government policies, as appropriate, are also being considered, such as in sustainable and climate-based policies. After consultation within the Board of Directorates and with the members of the Member States, the above events will be presented to the Ministerial Committee and the Government. Thereafter, the last few words will be given to the government, where economists and the general public could make comments. Finally, personal comments will be reviewed and the policy will be adjusted as needed and presented to the minister, to the appropriate Ministerial Committee and to the government before it is published formally. I'd say it's only natural that, directly from now on, the subject would be presented to members of the Parliament on relevant committees. I can picture such a conversation as well, i.e. After publication of the data in the consultation guide, if requested by the members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u54	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. She's very wide, and I've got one minute. I'm interested in whether the Minister intends to promote that in the tenant policy of these enterprises and other etc. companies, such as RIV ohf. and the Bank of Land Bank, to pay the streets of the elected representatives who want to know about the activities of these enterprises. They belong to the nation, and the nation and its representatives have every right to obtain information on business, business arrangements, etc. I remind you of the newly answered inquiry presented to a minister asking for the cost of land activation in preparing for sea cables for the past ten years. I didn't get any answers. There are six things in the information code that are given as a reason not to answer; the security of the nation, and I don't know what and what. This is completely annoying, and I need to deal with it. Therefore, I ask the minister, Is there a plan for the owner's conference to become an informed subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u55	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a tenet policy that I understand to be presented both for Istavia and for Landactivation as an adjunct to general policy-making policies and goals. I wondered, " Is it not so important to integrate Istavia's policy with transportation, flight policy, travel policy, climate policy, and clearly define the goals that Istavia would be aimed at supporting the progress of government policy in that area? ' Then there are such goals as the distribution of tourists, the security of transport with the necessary secondary airport service and the role of the Keflavor airport as a reserve airport for the international flight by building a facility where there would be a service for international workers at that point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u56	President. There was a very interesting meeting in Akureyri for a flight last week. It included the speakers of Isavia, Santa Sveinbjörn Indriðason. There, he called attention to one of the comments about the Akureyri Airport and the parts of Istavia. He summed up the fact that while the smaller international airports would be put under the same hat as the Cheflavor airport, this would not result in the fact that Istavia put money in structure on them, since the investment would not make any money in the company. Thus, the investment would always be caught at Keflavík, where there was hope of profit. However, he stated, and he correctly stated that this was so unless the government clearly required that certain funds be placed on a smaller plane or take certain measures there. Still, he meant that there should not be any place to run a part-partry. I want to make good use of this opportunity, and thank you. The manager for it, and ask: Is it the highest? Secretary of finance agrees with this opinion by the director of Istavia?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u57	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Economic and financial secretary for the answers. I view it as my job to initiate these discussions and not to discuss specific policy issues on flights or to ask more questions. On the other hand, I found it very clear how the tenants'policy was based on a general basis and then on an extension as high as possible. The minister mentioned. This is new to me, and maybe for most of my reasons. Councilmen, I think. It is quite natural that when the policy measures become established, a Senate committee reviews them and, of course, the Generals will also. It's gonna be very curious to see what's inside and what's not inside what you call a government policy. I'm not aware of it, and I'm expecting much when these things and measures finally come out. I know it's been quite a long period of pregnancy, but let's take a good time already. I repeat, thank you to both members of Congress and the highest. Minister for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u58	A respectable president. There have been some excellent questions and suggestions in the discussion, such as. About the information of a government partner. I think we can agree that it's important that there is full transparency and that the management plan cannot determine access to the information needed to prepare objective discussion and provide services through public management in the partner business. However, some business interests may need to be taken into account, and I find it a little difficult to see that it is particularly relevant to the tenet policy of certain enterprises that they should demonstrate transparency in their jobs and do information duties. I feel that it should be in the general law and that it should be based on such. We also need to discuss how we're going to bring up an appendix like this into line with tenure policy, as if only in my case. I don't think we can stitch it all up and make too many repetitions. I noted that this was a brief, pointed additional document that described a number of main emphasises, but, of course, a policy related to the sector would have to be taken into account. Then I have a question about the international airports in the country that we are interested in building up. I would generally like to warn that we were getting involved in a discussion about their composition in that subject, i.e. Whether the burden of business and construction of individual airports in the country to be introduced by sub-flying pilots or international airports is to be rolled into a competitive control company such as Istavia, or whether we are to finance it with financial resources from the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] I think it's most important that we first determine where we want to build up, how much we want to do, how much we want to operate. We should not look away when it comes to confronting the cost of those goals and trying to sweep it into a community, hoping that it will just be forgotten or lost. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing working with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u59	Mr. President. A declared target. Healthcare Ministers participating in national drug discharges are to lower the local pharmaceutical prices and, on the other hand, to increase the safety of drug delivery in the country. The first question I've ever wondered about is getting answers to the highest level. Ministers in this area, in terms of government expenses for preliminaries over the past few years, and this is related to health costs in general. According to a current budget bill, the next year's expenses are expected to be more than 8% of the government's health costs. I've been thinking about getting to the highest level. Ministers, whether the rate is increasing or decreasing over the years, each in other countries. The last time we were here, we heard that Iceland has begun to participate in informal drug exports. That would have been the highest. Healthcare Minister shall write on behalf of Iceland for an Annex on such an agreement between Dana and Norwegian on a common prescription. So again, I ask if Iceland has become a member of the internoristic drug exports that have been offered to some extent. I'm especially interested in knowing at the highest level. Minister on how to solve problems or challenges related to the country of Iceland and the potential quality of the pharmaceutical market for the costs of distribution and registration have been solved. However, the nature of the matter is defined by this cooretic offer, which costs an X-level supply to hospitals, and is quite different from whether they are in Oslo, Copenhagen, or Reykjavík, for example. The questions discussed in this case are about the delivering itself as well as the medication registry and the label, i.e. Whether they will be in Icelandic or northern languages, as has been often tried. Is there a problem with security requirements, or is Iceland looking for some sort of extramarital outlet? Third, I would like to discuss the safety of drugs, which is the nature of the matter. The lack of medicine is a global problem, often due to problems with production, rather than to the fact that it has something to do with Iceland in the lower priority list. The landlady has so far tried to address this deficiency by making a service agency demand to have a two-month supply in the country and be able to deliver a daily supply, but in this common Norwegian campaign that Iceland participated in is a three-day notice and a two-month security supply, certainly, but with the manufacturer, not in Iceland. So I ask the highest. Minister to how she sees that a joint nomerica is offering a trace of increasing drug shortage in Iceland and increases the security of the dropout. Then, because these common Norwegian invitations are primarily designed for these high - quality drugs, which leave them 80% of low-satisfactory drugs, they are just as necessary for people who need them. [[The president calls.]] So, finally, I'm going to ask if it's the highest. The health minister is concerned that, if possible, this change, which is certainly a respectable attempt to reduce the cost of medication, may possibly adversely affect these small drugs, allowing them to get less on the market here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u60	The president would like to state that he is not going to reprove. Councilmen, however, remind them of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's case here. It has addressed to me a verbal request for a three-way drug problem and asks, first, how much of the government's health costs have been spent on drug purchases for the past few years and what ratio is elsewhere in the Northern countries. The answer I have to ask is that during the last few years, about 103/411% of the government's health expenditures were spent on drug purchases in this country, while the latest OECD data are on the proportion of health costs available to purchase in the North countries, using information from 2017, showing that the rate of health costs is next in Iceland compared to the North countries, or less than 11%, of which is highest in Finnum, or 12.3% of the North countries. The ratio is at the lowest in Dana, or 6.3%, second in the Norwegian population, 7.3%, and 9.8% in Sweden. These are the figures I have from the Ministry that have acquired them through OECD reports. Second, the senator asks whether Iceland is a member of the joint pharmaceutical exports that have been offered, some of which have been developed, and how to solve problems related to the land and the small pharmaceutical market, e.g. On terms of resources, distribution and registration. To answer, the first conoric marketing of drugs was advertised during the spring months of 2019. The invitation was requested for some of the five types of offers; Meropenem, Ondansetron, Gentamicin, Paracetam and Anagrelide; but the invitation was Denmark, Norway, and Iceland. The work that began in 2017 was directed by Amgros, a trade - trade agency in Denmark. At the end of September 2018, the joint invitation was presented to prospective participants in the invitation to a meeting in Copenhagen. The presentation showed that those who were thinking of participating in Iceland do not consider Iceland to be acceptable for various reasons, such as - like a boy. In fact, a senator suggested that in his inquiry - because of the smallness of the Icelandic market and because the marketing approval of medicines requested, not all were present in Iceland. The country's transport costs would be high, and some producers would already be signed by an agency in Iceland that inhibited their participation. So it was observed to potential participants that if Iceland were to join them at the auction, higher prices would be offered. A meeting was agreed that Iceland would be included in the auction although potentially higher prices than citizens were not obliged to offer in Iceland except for one drug, Anagrelide, a drug authorised by the European market. The type of marketing authorisation is of importance in the absence of the barrier to medicinal products authorised by the European Marketing Authorisation. All medicines were offered for Denmark and Norway, or all those under it, but for Iceland, an offer was made to be offered. If there had been a duty to offer all the drugs, if this had gone before Iceland, it would have been estimated to be about 25 million. K. would have been used for these four medicines every year, as well as for providing safety for these specific drugs, since these drugs have recently been deficient and especially in the North countries. It has not been determined when the next national invitation will be made, and it may be that Iceland has a better chance of paying for a bargain used in the absence of competition with other medicinal products, i.e. Just an alternative, since I wrote in April. In addition to the agreement of the health minister of Norway and Denmark, as well. A senator mentioned, about starting a contract with certain drugs. However, markets, transport costs, numbers and markets as well as executive contracts are likely to remain responsible for our participation in the joint trades. I believe it is important to continue this journey even if the steps are still small. Hv. A senator finally asks about a joint Norwegian tender, whether or not they will survive an increase in drug shortage in Iceland and contribute to a reduction in price prices. I have to answer that question at the end of the discussion, but it can be said that when and if electronic package leaflets become realized, the access to drugs in the exports of this country will still be reduced, so it can be expected that when that obstacle arises, we will be closer to reaching that goal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this input. I'd especially like to take over because she ended up with electronic package leaflets, since it has been claimed that Iceland is so expensive because we have to use this package leaflet on paper and it costs opening all the packages and putting in an Icelandic language along with the Norwegian that I know best. Now I know that the European Union is discussing these matters, and I just want to ask the highest. Minister to state the situation there. I'd also like to bring her up to see if this isn't just getting to the point in the Northern Council that we can start running this case off the deck. I know we've had this very much discussed in the administrative group. So that's two especially things I would like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u63	Mr. President. I just want to take two points in this discussion about the need for medication, the importance of always being on medication in the country. I remind you of my synopsis proposal for domestic production of infusion fluids, which are truly medicinal and very important to us Icelanders to be made here. As a direct result, I remind myself of the environmental wind, particularly reminding us of the importance of environmental and environmental aspects, even when we are considering the purchase of drugs and drug production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u64	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for answers, as well as for the good advice of others. Senators. I'd like to mention a few of the most important things. The minister spoke of the rate of medical expenses being close to 11% at 8.3%. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he charge construction costs at the Land Hospital, and is this comparable to OECD countries, I assume somewhere there is a construction project inside medical expenses? This may be possible later. This is natural in comparison. I'd also like to ask you another question that is basically related to the answer. Minister on the drugs that would have meant 25 million. K. Saves at Land Hospital. Is it transport costs to Iceland or is the highest? So a minister aims for the price on the hospital floor, or any hospital? If the highest. If the minister had that information in his hands, it would be good to have it. I know a minister's going to get to a pharmacist and I'd love to hear about it a little bit more. We're in this drug business, as in so many places, talking about this 801⁄20% principle that lives well, that 20% of the drugs are less than 80% of the government's drug costs, such as this, and that's the cow that's been trying to attack. I ask: Does a minister have any concerns about it, or has he made some arrangements to ensure delivery security and thus possibly get out of control with this 80% that weighs only 20% at the cost of medicine? It is natural drugs that are as important to the person they use as the more effective medicines are to others. Are they making sure these drugs don't give in?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u65	A respectable president. It is a shame not to have more time to respond. I'd like us to consider that this campaign was considered as a trial project to take in knowledge of the practical features of such tenders, whether they produce results, how we measure the results, what drugs are suitable for common publishers, and how it will be best for the future. The possibility of a joint invitation has been discussed for years in the Norwegian field, where we are taking the first steps because the cost of medication is increasing progressively in all the nations. I don't have the answers to what you're talking about. A senator asked if the cost of construction was in this percentage. But I can get that information to why. A candidate by other means or in response to a written query if necessary. A senator wishes to. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir asked specifically for electronic package leaflets. It is not just a matter of breaking down certain barriers; it is also environmental because, as it is now, the directions of drugs change, the products with out - of - date information, which are naturally ridiculous, must be disposed of in order not to be taken lightly. Besides that it is important for a small language area to be able to offer electronic package leaflets, not to talk about population, if we are to live up to our names as such, to be able to have a wide range of languages to explain medications and side effects, etc. Hv. A senator also asks particular questions about the expensive medicines and the supply safety of the drugs, which may include most of the system. I have hoped that by a new TV, we will be looking at or responding in part to this. Sadly, the lack of medication is becoming more common. In the north, it is the most serious and most common in Finland. I intend to set up a team to examine specifically how to deal with the lack of medicine, since it is unacceptable that this part of health care is as uncertain as it really is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u66	V.E.G. President. In 2016 we adopted a change in law, with the goal of changing the country's police education and moving it to a university degree. Now there is some experience in this arrangement. The study is available at the University of Akureyri, but the law estimates that operating is an educational and professional development facility at the state police authorities, which has the responsibility to conduct training except in police studies, to oversee the ongoing training of police officers, and to be governments to advise on police education. It has been several years since this change went into effect, and I'm curious to know how she has given up, how it happened to the local police, to move the study to a university level, and to see if the goals that were set out for this change have been achieved. They were even. To improve the education of police officers, as well as to think that there might be a better control over how we react to police design problems. I am curious to know if there has been a special assessment, an examination, an investigation, a possibility of success, of whether it is possible, or whether it is intended to do so, so we can discern whether we have walked for good or not and if something has to be done to improve and correct this arrangement. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is intended to promote the training of prospective police officers. Of course, we have news that not all students who take part in the study can not get into it. We're in a hurry. Yet, there is always a better question: Is there any basis for promoting the training? I was on top of a full-scale educational committee when the law was changed and before it was changed, we had asked the Ministry to form a team to review police education and suggest changes. The result was this change, so that those of us who were then members of the committee are curious about whether and how all of this has worked out. It would be nice, too, if the minister could tell us just how we cooperate with the educational authorities. They take the head of the university, and, of course, certain consultations must take place so that this education can meet the expectations that all of us have for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdóttir for the inquiry. It is very important that we always reflect on the stones when we are making a new arrangement, as we did with the police mine. In this way, education was moved to the northern world arrangement, with a set objective, to ensure that the police could deal primarily with all the important work they have waiting for, to ensure the security of the citizens, and the fundamental interests of the State. It is important for police officers to have good knowledge of their individual demands. A controversial change emphasized two goals. One was that there was a better distribution of students all over the country, and that goal has been achieved. We'll see a significant difference there. Also, it has been achieved to make significant improvements in the sex ratio of students to the police school and is very effective. The first year began studying in the fall of 2016 under this system, so only two years have passed after the change. This is the total number, more policemen than if they had graduated from this system, but it is clear that it may still be unrealistic to determine whether all the goals have been achieved. Yet, it is clear that the changes were large and extensive. Now that the assessment of this study is under way, it is beginning to finish the next spring, it should be a report of the University of Akureyri Police Department, and from that point forward we hope to work thereafter. Of course, the foundation is that we have reached certain goals and have more educated policemen to do what would otherwise have been possible. The Ministry has received a tip from the State Marshal's office, which covers the police educational and professional development site, on the work course and on the importance of strengthening it in this study. There is good reason to consider these ways that training will become a further part of the study conducted by police officers. Among them is increasing the integration of academic studies and practical training. It has gone into a university system that may be a little new for the university too, being as flexible as it is when it comes to police training. They need to be alert to new opportunities and rules. The scope of practical training needs to be increased by improving the integration of the academic study carried out at school. Clearly, our cooperation has been good even though we can always do better. We should consider what has been good and how we can do better after those two years. In cooperation with the educational authorities, we follow this assessment estimated to be returned in the spring of 2020. That cooperation has been good, and I guess it will be good to cope with the challenges of making this study even more powerful and better. We can immediately see a great deal of opportunity in the fact that more educated policemen have this study on their back but would have been under those circumstances in the old system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u68	Mr. President. I appreciate the aesthetist. I was sitting with her on a full - time committee at the time when this discussion was under discussion, and these changes were determined, which I am so happy about. It's a pleasure to hear about the better distribution of people of the whole country and the change in gender rate. We went to the General and Education Committee on Days north to visit, including... At the University of Akureyri, they were given an introduction to the study and its position. What I'd like to ask the highest. On the one hand, a minister is whether there is a need to be limited because of the level of the study due to the training procedure. I would also like to ask if the Minister agrees that students with diabetes are not allowed to become police officers, not to participate in the training program. I have some talks from people who have been involved, people who have even been working, but then when they were supposed to get formally into the training program, they did not notice that a doctor would be in condition both physical and mental. I understand pilots can fly if they're diabetic. And I'd also like to know if a minister knows if the number of graduates has all got a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u69	V.E.G. President. I'm in the same place. I'm celebrating the increase in women's share in the police school as it's set up today. I'm a little concerned about the training, whether or not it's going to change the procedures of the staff. The Akademian study offers a wide range of ways, not necessarily a previous study, but even the police may be able to make progress. The question is mainly whether it's the highest. A minister sees something in changing the way the training is conducted today and even increasing the amount of space there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u70	Mr. President. Regarding the goals of the changes that occurred three or four years ago, it was clear that the willingness of police officers was to move the study to a university degree that was made. So that goal has been achieved. The goal of allowing people to study police studies regardless of their country's location has also been achieved by the telecommunications of Akureyri. Regarding what some senators have said about the sex ratio, I would like to point out that in the police school, before they moved up to college, there were just as many of both sexes, even as it was a knifelike one. There were 11 women and five men in 2014,2015, and the following year 11 men and five women. That's 16 of each sex. It wasn't a problem in itself, but, of course, the number of women in the police class has to be increased. [[The president calls.]] It was just not the problem, and, of course, for the masses it was just a matter of capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer to my inquiries and as to why. Parliamentaries who have been involved in the discussion. It must be said that my little heart rejoices that the answers are in such a way that we have taken a good and positive step that has meant increasing access to people everywhere in our country to this education. It was difficult for an office in many parts of the country to get to people who were interested in learning. It's important that police are educated in college, and I think we're on our way, and I'm glad the two Ministry and the Supreme Ministry is doing well. Secretary of education and the highest. The minister of judicial hearings intends to review the study so that we can get a report form of how the whole thing works and then respond if something needs to be addressed. It is happy that there is equal gender ratios, and of course we can control how many go through the study. The need for educated police officers and the State Police Department must be considered individually. Thank you so much for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u72	A respectable president. Thanks, too. A member of the council for this and other members of the council who have participated in the discussion because it is important that we always pay close attention and apply the changes we make here so that they are beneficial. Regarding the questions I have received, I was alone in asking whether all the officers who have graduated from this study had a job. Numbers are available from the class of graduates of 2018, and they were all in the work on February 1, 2019. There were 17 officers appointed under police law, 26 appointed, and one police officer with temporary consultation, but all were employed. There's no record of the year that graduated 2019. There were also questions about diabetes. This is in accordance with medical judgement, whether in epilepsy, diabetes, heart disease, neurological disorders, or other diseases. This is shown in the manual of the CHMP of the State. It is important that the rules are reasonable and in harmony with other health rules that we have but that they are primarily mentally and physically healthy in order to fulfill our work. I guess this needs to follow the trend we see elsewhere, as it were. A senator mentioned the flight issue. For the status of the miners, work is being put on top of this and increasing the knowledge of work and practical training and the balance we need to find in college. Our knowledge of the truth is as important as it is in fact, and it is important that we emphasize it now as we study it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u73	Mr. President. I'm here to ask the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for electricalisation reject. First, whether or not something has been worked by the actions of the energy exchange programme in Icelandic ports and, secondly, whether a minister thinks it is proper for a state fund to be involved in the electrical rejection of the country. In view of the government's energy exchange policies, the demand for electricalization has increased much, much more, in view of the growing number of shipping vessels to the country. A report on energy exchange in Icelandic ports makes it clear that high - tension connections are lacking for larger ships. Then it is clear that these large ships are thoroughly polluted by Iceland's ports, while both sulfur and particulates come together from ships and across settlements. Thus, in August, reports show that the amount of sulphur dioxide found in the Red Sea in Reykjavík is comparable to that of 3,35,000 cars, as measured by the National Protection Agency. In this context, the 2016 World Health Organization report, by permission of Presidents, has also stated that no environmental element has the greater impact on human health and air pollution. We know that by electricalization, we could reduce this pollution. Although the cost may be possibly much of it is likely that social and environmental consequences of such a decision would be of serious concern to her that she was worth it. You see, at times we need to let the human race guide us. Mr. President. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the following: What is the position of the energy exchange initiatives carried out in the Icelandic harbors of the Sea of Avenga and Icelandic NewOrku, published this year? Following the publication, the cost of the plan was discussed before further observance. Is that the end of the assessment? Finally: Do Ministers believe that the state funds are involved in paying off the cost of electronicization?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. An examination of electricalization is part of the energy exchange we are now working on in accordance with the government's priorities and it is useful to review their situation. I'd like to try to answer the questions as easily as possible. A senator has contributed to three teams. First, regarding the position of the projection programmes on energy exchanges in the Icelandic ports of the Sea of Avengers and Icelandic NewOrku. In Parliamentary Recontraction of Energy Conversion Programme, No. 18/146, starting in May 2017, will be presented in the infrastructure section to check if there are any obstacles to the use of electrical energy at ports. To carry out this project, the Sea of AIDS, along with Icelandic NewOrku, was commissioned to detect potential obstacles and provide suggestions on government action for energy exchange in Icelandic ports. This year their report was presented in January. The main conclusions of the report are that the port-sized position is quite good in this country when low-voltage connections are thought to be involved, while a lack of high-voltage connections required of larger ships is necessary. Technology is not a barrier to electrical charge, but funding through ports is a key factor that catalyses to ship owners because of the installation of equipment. The report included five defined tasks that are involved in the rejection of electricalization. To answer a question, why? The senator on the position of these projects is currently being continued with them within a four - group recruitment group. This group has the job of holding the energy exchange infrastructure programme in place. This includes identifying the present position of national infrastructure and providing suggestions on priorities and funding. The report of this work group from May this year includes magazine on electricalization rejects, and a project in that area is implemented. There is a five - year financial program that estimates the value of 1.5 billion dollars. to exchange energy over the next few years in accordance with government action programme on climate. This year, 250 million will be distributed to projects advertised by Energy Fund for the summer, on the one hand, to the construction of command posts and, on the other, to loading stations at accommodations. It is estimated that the next year there will be 200 billion. K. There are a wide range of other tasks in energy exchange, including electrical reforms rejecting. This work will be considered in the above report of the recruitment group, and it is being done for further implementation. The service group will submit their proposals by December 15th. The task force has begun cooperation with the Green Energy, a energy exchange team, on this project. With the participation of green energy, we are looking for the best information, both professional and stakeholders, on which infrastructure is needed for energy exchange and how we can achieve the best use of funds. What I'm trying to say is that we're not done writing it out, and we're still doing our homework on what type of operation we're going to be doing for the money we've been earmarking this project, where the electricalization is certainly under; but we're still doing our homework in this regard, how much the situation is, and what it can be done. The second question, then, is whether the operation programme has been costed is to answer to the work being done on the side of the Ministry's staff that I mentioned and Green Energy will be the measures that have been taken and will be subject to electricalization rejection of costs. A third question about the question of whether a minister would consider that the state's funds are involved in paying the cost of electricalization is to answer that there is one of the factors that are to be taken into consideration. Clearly, rejection is generally costly, and we know, in particular, the larger vessel, and it is important to ensure that the best means for energy exchanges in transport and at sea are the best means available. Cooperation with rural society is important in this relationship, and participation with rural ports is one of the factors that the employment group of employers will consider in their work. So we're still doing our homework, trying to figure out what the situation is, how much things cost. What we know is that technology is not an obstacle, but what we also know is that it is expensive. As we look at possible results for the funds we have, we have had a special focus on the energy exchange of transport in our country and in my mind, it is the right priorities. But that does not change the amazingness of opportunities, such as shock. A senator entered, an electricization denied. That's what's to come. That's what we'll eventually want to reach, but when it comes to these largest ships, their energy needs are so great in a short time that there's something I think there's still a considerable time for us to reach. However, this does not mean that there is not much else to be said about electricalization, which is desirable and realistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to say something about energy exchange and port electricalization. Much has already been said in the case of the lead and the highest. Minister, but I wondered: Is there enough energy to turn down? Has there been a map that holds that energy exchange and electricity are available everywhere? The way to support or encourage electricization is being considered. Is there anything besides the Power Fund that would come into it? There is a possibility that electricalization can improve air quality, of course, as part of the climate solution, but it is very important for working conditions on ships where electrical connections rather than diesel engines are in progress. However, in setting priorities, I would like to draw special attention to oceanic ships, which could be useful in connecting to electricity and then looking to narrow distances like Seyster Fjords.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u76	Mr. President. This is a very important subject that I thank you for the part of the program. I have to say, as soon as I disagree with the highest degree, that's how quickly I look. A minister who earlier said that national energy exchange is more urgent than ports to switch energy. We've seen pictures of both Isafa and Akureyri, where there are plenty of ships at once, and the smoke from them doesn't get a clear route and damage or reduce the quality of the air for everyone passing through. I encourage it to the highest. A minister to set out ambitious goals in this regard and to ensure that, where electricity is scarce, such as in Isafandi and Akureyri, special measures will be taken to achieve acceptable targets of energy exchange for ships.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answer and other members before the discussion and are glad to know that the matter is being handled even if it had been a little more specific, but hopefully the work will end as soon as possible. No matter what we think of a cruise ship as a travel service article in Iceland, I think we can agree that there are more and more evidence that we need to develop a policy regarding the reception of cruise ships in Iceland. Travel services in Iceland have grown rapidly over the last ten years. One of the lessons that we can learn from this rapid growth is that it is better to shape a course as soon as possible and make decisions as to how to build up the article rather than a vague frame and that no one is looking at the big picture. I believe there is still an opportunity to shape a policy on the welcome of cruise ships in Iceland and affect the structure of this article. It is important that someone take the initiative, and I believe it is normal for this medium-controlled work to be done by the government and, of course, in cooperation with rural society and other stakeholders. I will in the next few days make a pact proposal to hide the highest. Minister to form such a course. I certainly hope that I can be supportive of that proposal, both from the minister and from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u78	Mr. President. To answer a question, why? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter, I'd like to say that's a diagnosis. We do not have a transport system that would cope with total energy exchange in ports. Because of what? paritaprevir Sæmundsson came to my point on priorities, I did not say that ports had less urgent energy change, but I took the priority of transport energy exchange in the country based on results for the provisional funds. More success is being achieved by less energy exchange on land, and that's why we have emphasized it. But the other project does not leave us at all, and the goal is that it can also be replaced by larger ships. In the Icefjords and other locations, high-voltage connections are not available for these large shipping vessels and cruise vessels today. So that's a pretty big project we're facing there. In terms of the approach of cruise ships, we are now, on the basis of the policy framework for tourism, where we have a policy on the box until 2030, starting work on an action plan to achieve that goal. Well, it's clear that we have a policy to take to the reception of cruise ships that will have to be marked within the policy frame, and I welcome the initiative. A senator in that regard. It has to look to various markets, valuable markets, and, of course, what they give us in variety, including the diversity they give, but ask where we can bear the boundaries and the rejections. If they are beyond our control, we need an investment there, and they need to be looked aside to make an investment in the transport system. If we need to set priorities, we need to make an honest conversation about what money is best spent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u79	Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister on pollution from cruise ships, i.e. Whether and how much pollution is from cruise ships will be monitored on a regular basis and along with ports. Perhaps I should have had the question more open and simply asked about pollution of the harbors and the land above my head, but the cruise ships have a unique position of turning around usually for about eight hours and driving their machines. Such measurements are of particular importance in view of this, as I did in the previous inquiry, that no environmental component has such a negative impact on human health and air pollution. Therefore, it is important that we keep a close eye on the situation. The EEA's air quality assessment in Iceland is certainly important, but it always brings me to my attention as I look at their map on the very cool website, that air quality does not seem to be needed unless only in very few places around the country. For example, there are no measurements in a Western country outside the Hagland. There are no indicators on the West, and there are no measures in the South outside the Whos making. They are also few in Eastern Europe, except for the natural world around the Cradle. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is pollution monitored from cruise ships visiting Iceland by regular assessment of ports and near country? If so, what have the results been? If not, is it to establish such regular measurements? Also, I ask the highest. Minister how he thinks it is right to deal with pollution from cruise ships visiting Iceland. I'm afraid I will answer the highest. Ministers will be on the way not to observe pollution from harbors or pollution from cruise ships in a regular way, but they certainly hope that they do not consider it to be the right thing to do. You may see that pollution is less than we fear, but perhaps it is also greater. The key, though, is to get the information, for it is not realistic to make informed decisions; nor is it possible for us to have an informed discussion in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u80	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is very much interested in this inquiry that I agree with her that it is very important to speak at the General and in the community. Monitoring factors have turned to pollution from ships at least Three parties, a Group Office, the EEA and then the ship's harbor at each time. Even the maintenance room does its own. Monitoring of ships for pollution protection and the EEA monitors the quality of fuel available in the country, including sulphur content. The EEA oversees air quality assessments. Those who are particularly to look at pollution from cruise ships have been made in the Southland area. These measurements of sulphur dioxide and particulates began earlier this year and continue until the next year. The current measurements are not available, but some increase in measured materials can be seen when ships are docked. It's important that we find evidence of that already. A study of Akureyri was conducted to try to analyze the impact of the emissions of cruise vessels on air quality there. As a result, the effect was very low and was found to be measurable in the EEA's fixed measuring centre in Akureyri. It should then be noted that at the local level, the main measure of pollution was to be measured from a car traffic and that other standards would be more suitable if a special air pollution from ships was to be measured. I'll think about it. A senator is good at this. In Reykjavík, air quality gauges are not nearby. The levels nearest Skarfrab, where most of the cruise ships are docked, are located at the Family and home animal park, about nine miles from Skarfaki, on the Njarrow Channel, and on the Grensá Way. The cutthroats that could obviously be attributed to cruise ships have not been seen at these level stations. During the past three years, the Gulf Seas have calculated the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and particulates from all ships docking in their oversight, Icelandic and foreign. I call attention to the fact that about half of the emissions are from transport ships, about one third from cruise ships, and the rest from fishing ships and other ships. I believe this is very important information into the discussion here. I believe it is proper to examine air pollution from cruise ships in the context of general air quality policy, such as wind. A senator came in earlier, so we try to ensure that air is not harmful to health. The Environment and Resource Minister has recently published the first general air quality programme for Iceland, which applies for the period 2018,2029, with the promise of clean air for the future. Its aim is to reduce the health of air pollution although it is generally with the lowest known in Europe. At the same time, a control group has been appointed to oversee the implementation of the programme. The measures are now being taken to reduce air pollution from ships, since the maximum emissions of sulphur in land fuel have been 3.5% but with a change in regulations to be implemented at next year's time, and I will soon sign, these requirements will be completely changed. Where sulphur content will be allowed in fuel sources within the Icelandic land weekend, i.e. In all the shores, fleas, and inspires, to a maximum of 0.1%. This means that black oil cannot be used in the weekend only with powerful pollution devices that will clean it. This is probably the most ambitious thing we have seen in these matters, obviously here, but also in international context. It is already forbidden to burn black oil for the power of ships in ports, but the change I have mentioned should improve the quality of air as a cruise ship arrives at sea and to coastal areas where the ships come near land. I thought it would be desirable for a cruise ship to use electricity from the country when they're at the docks. It has been suggested that the cost of high-voltage connections for large ships such as cruise ships is very high, and time is very short, which would mean that it might be less practical than many other climate activities, if thought of these factors. However, it is the development of technology in this field, and I believe that it would be appropriate to look more closely at such possibilities in cooperation with energy companies and others, and in the long run, I feel alone that electrical connections or other renewable fuels are used for all ships on the docks. There we need to put our priorities at a more reasonable level so that we can get the most results from the funds that are available to each person in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u81	Mr. President. I also want to thank the head of this inquiry and this discussion because it is a matter of great concern to us. Pollution from cruise ships is not just exhaust. We have smaller cruise vessels that enter very delicate areas around the country. True, I pretend to know that some rules have been set, e.g. About the Pacific Peace Land, but I really doubt that it is far enough. Let's see if the largest ship that arrived in Iceland last summer had completely packed 6,000 people. Since these ships are the size of an average company in Iceland, we need to check that they are not polluting, not only with the incineration but also with waste, etc. It tells itself that waste and other things from such a shoal society are not a smart one. I strongly encourage ministers to enforce the existing rules, e.g. around the Horny Peace Land, and that we have the wisdom to keep track of what these ships are really polluting in every way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to get involved in a discussion about pollution of entertainment vessels, which is one of the most important matters about how we keep our environment and after the occurrences of pollution by other ships as well. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of whose role it is to monitor pollution from ships in ports. Who follows the fact that black oil is not burned at sea? In the same way, I ask: " What party is there to watch that the supply of pollution on board the ships is being used, that in every case where it is available, what person is used? As I understand it, it can be selective and just how to determine where the ships are required to blow away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer as well as for other members of the council for the participation in the discussion. Especially a whisk. Sæmundsson It's one of the points I'll particularly introduce into the Senate resolution proposal I made earlier. That's clear from the highest answer. Ministers that we can do much better in measures of air pollution on ports. It's like the highest. A minister came into her answer is not only because of the cruise orders but also because of the exhaust of ships at ports. I was just rejoicing that measurements had begun in Sufjörður, but we have a lot of really rare, fancy birds who share in a little shut down, and hence, often a very special calm, which also means that air pollution, which will be in them fun to stop something. Hence, it is important that we speak in such circumstances and in them. I'm also a name for Iceafjörður and Akureyri. Although it has the highest standards. The minister mentioned is not particularly located to measure this pollution. We need to reduce air pollution in Iceland too, which happens either land or sea, and it is important to take certain steps in that direction. Of course, I'm glad I don't reduce black oil use at Icelanders, but I'm thinking that now working on banning black oil on shipping routes through the Arctic, as has been done in Antarctica for some years. I'd like to add it to the end if it wasn't clever to ask for the International Sports Agency to include a national immunity so that it would simply be forbidden to use black oil at the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-21-22.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Councilmen for this fine discussion. To answer a question, why? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alice Saevard's daughter is, in fact, the EEA that monitors the amount of sulphur dioxide in the oil and the Transporter should monitor the pollution control of the pollution management system itself on the ship. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's tombstone introduces a very important point that is the land of lightboats from cruise ships, which, for example, referred to the Peace Land on Horn Coasts. I agree with the senator that I think it is very important that we pay attention to the way things are going, that a certain example has been set in the rules of this country, and in what ways we can learn from this, the experience of this, etc. I agree that it is natural, too, in some cases, to discuss a large environmental protection that has merely the efforts of tourists on the nature of the country. I also agree with what. Captain, I think we can do better on these tests. As we've both come in, the metering centres are not necessarily at the places that measure this, since perhaps the main weight has been trying to control the natural road. I then agree that our long - term goal should be to avoid moving black oil to the north, not just burning it. The step we're taking now is by taking a major down and closer to ban it in Icelandic land weekend, which has been done nowhere else, so that I know only for myself only in limited beaches and fleas, is a big step forward which I am very happy to take on, hopefully for the years now.
