ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm just telling you... Quiet, please. Good morning, please. Quiet, please. Before we begin, I declare that the third point has been abandoned for another time, the motion has been left for another day. First point in theme list: "To answer COVID-19 pandemia for the extraordinary measures taken to aid the public hearing, to ensure the economic growth of the decree in Araba, Buka, and the autonomous companies of Gipus." Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Iriart, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u1	Good morning, everyone. The President, the legal chief, the members of the legislature. Looks like pandemia's a past business, right? Looks like we're already in a normal situation. And if it wasn't for these kisses, it's all been a nightmare, isn't it? They've only seen that our panels have been removed. It's like we've ceased to be fish in a pezer. But, though the hardest of the panic has passed, this has left out some remarkable consequences, and leaves them. As after a great storm the day is shining again, but it has ceased to perish behind it. The pandemia has given us smallness in several senses, and how, not, the most obvious and terrible, death, is not it? All those around us who have died in solitude, what is there to say about it? But he has left them, and leaves other consequences behind him. Economically, in a economy based on consumption, which has been stopped, the boundaries of human relations, the closure, the promised close, the price of a hundred economics. Dreadful consequences. And although the storm seems to have passed, these conclusions, the autonomous Basque family, are preserved in many small companies. And mind you, not only that, but their future, or their ability to perform the future. From the beginning of Pandemia, or at the beginning of pandemy, the Orcsta, the Basque Institute of Euskalism, would produce the consequences of the results of this. And you've guessed it fully. We had time to manage this, we knew what they were going to endure, what they suffered, what they were doing all this. We didn't answer properly. Some of these Sectors, in addition to the local trade, had before been concerned with structural problems: The change of consumption, the difficulty of changing generation, the online consumption... We're thinking what our streets would be, our country, without our local trade? We gathered together the Basque People from the beginning, and, in order to answer this, we got to work. Not just that. Even after the storm, we knew that there would be a lot of sectors in the most vulnerable condition, and we even worked to answer it from the beginning because after the storm, many of them would get very weak and very weak. And therefore, from the very beginning, we have made proposals to the public, because we saw all this as a challenge of people, because we understood that it was necessary to answer as a people beyond the pandermy, and that we saw pandemy in other ways, as an opportunity of answering other agreements. It was because the game was too much, and alone and alone, the institutions, the agents, the citizens, the corporations, or the autonomies, because we couldn't stand it because we couldn't stand it. We weren't alone. We are not able to answer for future and future romances, in the same person, or in the same person. And the pandemy has been a sign of that, but the challenges we're making are terrible. In this sense, this government has not been able to exercise a shared government, which requires three legs; the popular people, the institutions, the experts, the others. It is an institutional sphere of employment between institutions, and this government is not; it is merely a division of associations between institutions, and their management. As I said, since the Basque Country, aware of the size of challenge, we've prepared proposals, one after the other. We've been trying to find consent. We found them sometimes, sometimes we found them. Sometimes it doesn't. I don't want to include in the data how many helps are given, how many of them are there, where we are. To this end the President, at the beginning of the course of his studies, placed himself in this discussion, with the utmost assistance, to inform himself that any of the greatest assistance was given. The next day, a journalist, one by one, derolled the data and contradicted it. That's why I don't want to get involved. But I'd like to come in on the 27th of May, here we discussed and made an agreement on the other side. I think the agreements are much worth, and in this case many of the people who are here in this camera, the majority, under the consideration of the slowness, stiffness, and the more rapidly, the more efficient point of distribution. We were aware that the Decrees of Spain, this decree of the 7,000 million, brought us the chances of that line of support, which would be 218. We knew we had to take advantage of this opportunity, and so we agreed on the other lawfully. In the last words of this discussion we said that we were satisfied. Because we agreed, we'd be on top of it, and we'd follow. And today they are the consequences of this pursuit, and that's why we're here today. We were grateful to each other for our agreement. And from this point on, funk, we need to say that he did the right thing and fulfilled his commitment, the faster handling of the files that he hired 43 people to make it lighter. So the Spanish support line was accepted on the 12th of March 2021. He was the one who did it, through 155/2021 Decree on June 22, with Couta and Melilla, we were the last to start the treaty or decree and help us. However, we thought a problem not to be too late either in the files or this one. There was no need to be a problem, as I said, because the speed of managing contractions and files was guaranteed. The problem hasn't been in there this time, it hasn't been in time. Now the problem has been missed again by Madrid's ability to answer the needs of this town. And this also shows the direct influence of want of independence on the conditions of our fellow-citizens. Thus one of the conditions appointed for the support of the Spanish Government, namely, to have at least 30% loss of its support, has left most of its recipients out. And that's what I'm telling you about 30,000 records that have been made today. That's about five thousand of them. There was another foundation... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... they were expecting it, and it is about five thousand who have now made their demand. There was another foundation, that debts should be attended with financier and profitable entities, which has been modified by changes of publication and decree, and that loss has been justified. Well, let's see what kind of influence this has, right? It's going to work, but we believe in the root that this decree has been designed badly, as we said. And that the pointer has lasted for three long periods, has already had three periods of extension, and, as I have said, this change of the grounds of yesterday. However, we believe that this will not be enough, because, as we have said, we believe that the foundation, the ground of these 30% losses, will be many and many that need it. And for that reason I had the opportunity to speak to the various autonomists and associations yesterday, and they all said the same thing: that this decree did not satisfy their wants. I think it's a pretty serious situation, and with money, with money, to get to those who need it. I should even like to take advantage of the centralism which the Spanish Government is conducting the European funds, and which is again conditioned by our development, and does not agree with the roots which this people has of necessity and of the future. Nevertheless, I believe that in this sense, all of us, more or less generally, would agree to say that the Spanish Government has not been invented at the time of managing and designing the decree. But what about it? Right in front of that one, right? I'm sure he's bound to answer those families, autonomists, and the most vulnerable companies of our land, and those who came out of the pandemon in the weakest condition. And there are other reasons why there are funds and money, and that more and more, after they have been told that there are these again and again; and more, after the President had placed himself on the plate of honour. I'm telling you, this is what I'm talking about. Designed to face Covida. The ones with special funds to deal with Covida. Then fulfill your word. There's no way we don't use the resources. This government made an engagement that would leave no one behind. Well, I repeat, keep your word. And for that purpose, the 218 million announced by the Spanish Government, 50 million united from their own funds, must be placed in the hands of that family, autonomous, corporation, and economic fabric. They are responsible for the piece made by the Spanish Government; But here, Araba, Bizia, and Gipuzian autonomous, company, and, in general, we have a duty to answer families. And don't forget, this money belongs to the people, the government governs, but this money belongs to the people. Because if you don't spend everything you promise on a bowl and a dish, all those lines of help that the lehendakari is so proud of, you're lying and you're going with a lighthouse. Because it seems that the aid you promise is made of penboard, and it is clear that when you want it to be done, and this government knows it. There is nothing more to see than the difference with which the latest aid for trade in personal equipment was managed compared to many others, such as the supplements to the ERTE. The former are managed quickly and well, the others, the latter, were announced, filled headlines and did not manage or run by a third. And of the 50 million euros with which this government completed the 218 from the state you must start them. The problem is not that there are no applicants, but that the decree of the State does not respond to the needs of our autonomous, our economic fabric, our SMEs in our country, which is poorly designed. But that doesn't say there's no need. This Government has an obligation to respond, to accompany, to be and to help, because it blinds that closes, it blinds that does not open. Because having resources, having needs, we can't afford to keep the hut closed. It's the use of all the tools that this town has to build the future, and now it requires the use of all the fundes it's predicting these budgets. We've got a middle course together with Podemos, our wish was to agree with the government too. But, as we have always said, content is the basis. And we were pragmatic, asking again for change from the Spanish government, but we knew it wasn't a time. These things must be given for December 31, because Europe says so, we knew. We'd be asking... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We knew it wasn't a time. These things must be given for December 31, because Europe says so, we knew. We were asking that 30% loss to go down to 10%, but we knew that all the changes that the demand brings to us didn't go to Tempus, didn't allow it to be on the street. That's why we put that aside. And that was why last night the decree was made public by this change. We don't like it. We know it's not a solution. So we have been told by the operating societies. But he'll give access to some people, let's see first from five million. Therefore, in this medium, we propose a line of communication, at least we can reach or reach them. It's not the panacea scholarship that's misrepresented, ill-designed, ill-made. These 218 million received by the Spanish Government will have to return a great deal of the seven million. And helping to see the fracasso. But, on the other hand, we think fun is allowed to do everything that's in his power and we have to ask for it. And that's why, the 50 million announced, we wanted to activate those 50 million, which we'd put on as a conjuncture for those helps. We're asking for the middle course. We believe, if you like, what we can do. We think today, or we see there will be no deal. It's a shame, it's a pity, because we think we finally turn our backs on him, that this deputy will turn his back on a number of sectors they need. And as we said before, we seem to have passed pandemics, a lot of people, a lot of economic sectors have been having a very bad time, but now that's not easy. And a lot of sectors had a tough situation before and the pandemic situation will be tougher. Consequently, I would ask those parties who support the government's side or government to protect this half-way, and at any rate, as far as possible, to commit it. If that's what you want, it's because it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, representing the Podemos Anther Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's talk about an issue that has already been the subject of debate in the past plenary. Well, we've reached a compromise agreement with the proposing group. For our parliamentary group, whenever we have talked about this issue, we have tried to focus on a basic premise. And it's that the way we were supposed to get out of the economic crisis produced by the covid and the pandemic couldn't be the same as after the 2008 financial crisis. In other words, we considered that, of course, the austerity formula was not the right mechanism, given the suffering caused over the last decade in relation to the implementation of those policies. In this respect, it is true that on more than one occasion we have criticized Mr Azpiazu, his words and his grandioseness at the time, sometimes, in our opinion, certainly rhetorical, in which he spoke of expansive budgets, even of direct lines of financing to the loss of businesses, when the policies of the Basque Government to this effect have in fact been, in general, more linked to deductions or even to credit guarantees rather than to direct lines of financing. And, in this regard, we, in the role we play in the coalition government, in the Spanish government, have tried to push, to the extent possible, for direct funding lines to be applied and, in this case, specifically the 7 billion we are talking about right now. It is true that we have had to make an effort over the months, once the royal decree was agreed and also the implementation of that funding, that 7 billion line of financing, so that this royal decree would be amended, not once, but on several occasions, both to extend the sectors to which this royal decree could be applied, as was the case, for example, of the Rioja Alavesa wineries, as well as the recent or recent changes that have been made. I think I remember yesterday, as has already been said, with regard to the flexibility of access conditions. In any case, we believe that economic recovery policy must go through public leadership in this regard, and not at the expense of private initiative that, as a result of the economic cycle, will enable us to return to pre-pandemic levels. We believe that, in this sense, the public, and the administration, must be a driving force, whether through the use of debt, now that flexibility at European level allows it. And so we have defended it both in the budgetary process and on other occasions, as well as with expansive public investment policies. We believe that the level of public investment must be recovered from the 2008 levels. And, in this regard, with regard to the sectors affected by the crisis, be it businesses, businesses, etc., to launch direct financing lines that are not exclusively credit lines, which is true that also through the ICO at state level they have been one of the most priority formulas for economic recovery. But we believed that, at the same time, and that has been one of the exercises we have tried to push forward at the level of the Spanish Government, it was also applied in direct funding lines. And, in this sense, the agreement that we have reached, the compromise proposal basically comes to propose that, once the royal decree was amended, that we considered that, in fact, there were certain elements that had to be modified in order to improve and extend its application beyond... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... decree, which we consider that, in fact, there were certain elements that needed to be modified to improve and extend its application beyond the original proposal. We believe that what is needed now, insofar as there is co-responsibility and co-management with the autonomous communities for their implementation, is that there is also an intense campaign by the Basque Government to make known to companies that have suffered accounting losses arising from the crisis as they can access these financial resources and what are the conditions that apply in the royal decree for their... in order, in the end, to be able to opt for the same lines of financing. And in this case, in case they are not enough, even different lines have to be provided, different lines of direct financing that go beyond those contained in the royal decree, to make use of what the councillor Azpiazu, even the Basque Government has sometimes verbalized: and it is that we have own funds and that, in this sense, there would be no problem in... beyond what the royal decree allows and from the 200 million that would correspond to Euskadi, because beyond that, new lines of financing could be applied if needed. And we think it was months ago, it's still necessary. This is the second point, therefore, on which we believe that the Basque Government could put forward its own funding lines, which amount to 50 million. We had raised 100. But the truth is that, taking into account the public statements made by members of the Basque Government, we understand that if it is 50 million that they were talking about, why not today, considering that these financial amounts are available, why not put them in place now and that they are effective, that is, that there are no problems in access by those affected by the crisis in their implementation and implementation. And, for our part, we believe that it is a transaction that should not in principle create problems for its approval, given that basically what is said is that a communication campaign is carried out to inform companies affected by the economic crisis and, on the other hand, that what the Basque Government has already said on more than one occasion that they are willing to do, which is basically to apply lines of direct financing with own funds. And, in this sense, we believe that there should be no problems in order to be able to agree. It wasn't possible. It seems to us that this is a missed opportunity, bearing in mind that there have been precedents in the past that have indeed led to the majority agreement of this House on matters of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are presented with an initiative, a GNP, which, recognizing the importance of the matter, many of us already have a feeling here de déjà vu, that we have already experienced this. Our group has been presenting over the course of this year a reasonable and significant number of initiatives to help entrepreneurs, particularly the self-employed. In some cases, transactions have even been made with different groups in the House and with groups supporting the Government. We've made initiatives... Well, let's start at... almost in March, in June, even in November last year. I mean, June, this year. Last November we also presented one of the first initiatives. And what we have been seeing throughout this process, that the number of initiatives related to the support of entrepreneurship by all groups has been increasing in recent months, because it seems that what concerns us is the photo, the announcement, the announcement by the government that it is in this case, and after the photo, after the press, because the raw reality comes, comes the day after. There have been huge announcements of the mobilization of large amounts of money both by the central government, which already in February this year announced 11 billion to help SMEs and self-employed people, and then 7 billion; then the Basque Government itself was going to complete a specific item allocated to the Euskadi case of just over 200 million euros, with an additional item of another 50 million euros, etc. But the reality that we have been experiencing, and this has been said earlier by the proposing group and the group with which they have reached a compromise, is that the direct aid has stuck and the truth is that it has not met its purpose at all. Euskadi is the sixth community in which less aid has been requested, just 23% at the time of the closure of the first call. And I believe that this should make us reflect on everyone, and particularly on the government. That is to say, if there are funds available and then the problem is the ability to execute, because I believe that self-criticism must be made and it is healthy to do so. And for that they'll have us here. It is healthy, I believe, to make self-criticism and rethink the situation, to modify the orders and to modify the conditions. The Basque Government, in this regard, has already contracted a number of interim measures for the management of this type of aid. Apart from making an expansion of money, of subsidy, which we support, is good. Even additional economic activities are added in order to be... in order to be able to benefit from this type of aid. But what has been one of the fundamental problems? For look, indeed here, and I have great interest in listening to the groups of the Government, one of the problems was perhaps the wording or the conditions already imposed by the decree law on the one hand, which left out enough companies for the way it had to establish who could be eligible. Of course, we have already commented on this in some case, it is that the decree we believe was ill-designed. Only those who had debts to suppliers as at 31 May could receive assistance, there were also problems for those who had debts to the Administration, even if they were already recognized and there was a payment plan. This is usually a problem in aid... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... At 31 May, there were also problems for people who were in debt to the Administration, even if they were already recognized and there was a payment plan. This is usually a common problem in aid, which lays down conditions on solvency, which at that time, of course, does not exist, because who is eligible to apply for a subsidy, logically, the main problem he has is that of solvency. I therefore believe that it would be very reasonable for the Government and its economic advisers here to review this issue. We have made a number of proposals related to taxes, with the form of collection, we have made comparisons that we can repeat to the point of satiety. See, in Spain, you already know that for every 100 euros that has stopped entering an autonomous, the aid has been 20 euros; in the case of Germany, the Government has helped you with 75; in France, 55. I mean, we've seen it with hospitality here too, which has been made difficult in a complicated context. I do not want to get back to that, but it is true that the Basque institutions I believe that we have failed and failed above all the part of the executive, in this case the entrepreneur. And I think it's good to recognize it and especially try to learn from these situations. Look, the direct aid that was being proposed, the Government said in a note by Irekia, from the Transparency Portal, which they had planned that could benefit up to 35,000 entrepreneurs. The latest data is that only 4,000 or 5,000 have been able to benefit from this type of aid. Councilman Azpiazu also made some statements that (?I was shocked a bit, he said that the system should not be saturated and so on (?)). Finally, I do believe that, as I say to the Government, there is much room for improvement. There are several arguments in this case to give the Central Government and the Basque Government an earshake. First, the decree law was made without talking to the affected groups, it is unnegotiated with the opposition, without listening, and it has obviously been a failure. This custom of the Central Government to approve the issues by decree-law and then to process it as a bill by emergency procedure obviously has a big problem, and is that then the only way to process that law is by having it approved beforehand by decree-law. It is true that we always hear in the press and such that negotiations will come to fruition, etc., but then those negotiations never take place, or at least, or rather, those negotiations do not crystallize, because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the processing of a bill even if it goes through the urgent procedure takes a long time, with which, in the end, we are, let us say, legislating with a coup d'état, giving a little bandages. It is a problem that the Spanish Government, in which I think one of the amending groups is, by the way, and (?) has reached a compromise with the proposing group, it is a pity that the Government in this case does not listen. The problem is that the party also of the fundamental government, or the two parties, in this case the PNV also, in the case of the Basque government because in part its advisers also replicate the behavior of the Socialist Party in Madrid, although it is curious because they criticize it there as authoritarian, but then here emulate the same procedure. I mean, at the end of the day, you make an order in a hurry and I think you take a little advantage of it to catch or capture media attention, but then the next day comes. Of the 35,000 beneficiaries, as I said before, who were thought to be eligible for this aid, we have gone to less than 5,000, which shows that the aid is not what the sector expected. Without in an initial planning, if you're so wrong in an initial planning of the number of... but down above, the number of potential beneficiaries, man, I think we need to rethink the kind of support being given. I believe that the lack of forecasting has been very great on the part of both governments, both central and autonomous, and they did not see it coming and did not see it coming. There was no need, no, at all, the problem is that many self-employed people were left out because they did not meet certain requirements. We have proposed several times and we are doing so again now, using at least that specific item that the Basque Government has made available to this situation, 50 million, which could also be more, because for a new programme that really helps the self-employed, a programme that really helps the self-employed. And especially in our initiative, what we are proposing is a very important thing: that there is genuine coordination with the Government of Spain, in this case it is true that it costs governments a lot. In general, it costs administrations a lot, but it seems that the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, and what they share partners and parties, do find it very difficult for them to coordinate on such an important issue as this. Secondly, we have also called for transparency in our initiative. However, a part of the amendment to the whole of the Podemos group is also appreciated because we will abstain from the compromise, because although we see that there is something positive, but of course, in the end the proposal has become a communication campaign and new or new lines of aid. All right, that's why we will not vote against, we will abstain, but I think we need to make a little more concrete and we need to involve the sectors concerned, at least there is a hearing procedure, and then from there we need to legislate accordingly, so we will abstain in this one. We will abstain in principle also in which the Government has proposed and will vote in favour of our own amendment. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u7	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, advisors, advisors, and so on. On 12 March this year, the Council of Ministers adopted a Royal Decree-Law on Special Measures to Support Corporate Solvency, which mobilised EUR 11 billion in direct aid to companies through grants, cost reduction and capital reinforcement, which was validated at the Congress of Deputies on 25 March. The aid was directed to viable companies in the sectors most affected by the pandemic, in order to channel resources to the economy as a whole and to reduce the risk of over-indebtedness that could lead to economic recovery. The standard establishes various instruments so that companies and self-employed can cope with the payment of invoices with suppliers, fixed costs and other financial and non-financial debts, thus improving their balance sheets and guaranteeing the maintenance of their businesses... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Invoices with suppliers, fixed costs and other financial and non-financial debts, thus improving their balance sheets and ensuring the maintenance of their businesses. These direct aids must be combined with moratoriums on the payment of social security taxes and contributions, in addition to moratoriums on the return of public funds, mortgages and loans without mortgage guarantees with financial institutions; or even the payment of rents in the case of self-employed persons or vulnerable persons. And the Basque Socialists want to highlight that the security network deployed by the Spanish Government to prevent permanent structural damage amounts to 20% of the gross domestic product, which is one of the highest responses of the European Union countries to the social and economic consequences of COVID-19. The line of direct aid to self-employed people and companies we are talking about today is endowed with €7 billion, and aims to ensure that the autonomous communities grant aid to both self-employed people and businesses in the sectors most affected by the pandemic and whose revenues have fallen by more than 30% compared to 2019. The aid is final in nature and is used for the payment of debts incurred by companies since March 2020, such as payments to suppliers, supplies, wages, leases or financial debt reduction. These aids are accessible to all enterprises and self-employed persons in the hospitality and catering sectors; the sectors with access to the extended ERTs, as set out in Royal Decree-Law 2/2021; and others, particularly affected by the pandemic, such as manufacturing activities related to trade and hospitality, wholesale and retail trade, transport auxiliary sectors, aeronautical maintenance and activities related to culture and sports activities. About a hundred activities to which the Basque Government considers should be added: 78 CNAE more than extending the coverage and the amount of aid with own resources by EUR 50 million more than adding to the 218 million corresponding to us in Euskadi. The allocation of these 218 million has followed the same criteria as those used by REACT-EU, the impact of the pandemic on the wealth of the Autonomous Community, the impact of the crisis on unemployment and the impact on youth unemployment. They can benefit self-employed and viable companies that have had a fall in their income of at least 30 % in 2020 compared to the previous year. And the aid will cover up to 40% of the additional revenue drop for micro and self-employed companies with up to ten employees, and 20% for the rest of the companies, with a fixed amount of EUR 3,000 for self-employed people who tax under objective estimates and a range of between EUR 4,000 and 20,000 for the rest. Euskadi approved direct aid to self-employed persons, entrepreneurs and professionals, and companies for the support of solvency and reduction of private sector indebtedness amounting to EUR 217,997,300. And Spanish regulations and autonomous regulations have been static regulations. They have been adapted to the circumstances that the implementation of these regulations recommended, with the sole aim of making them effective and making the most of economic resources. And so, with the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5, extraordinary measures are established in support of corporate solvency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. And among the four axes on which this regulation hinges, which we were talking about a set of EUR 12 billion, is this line of EUR 7 billion for direct aid to self-employed people and businesses. The criteria for allocating direct aid to self-employed persons and undertakings are laid down in Order 348. The validation of Royal Decree-Law 6, of 20 April, involves the adoption of complementary measures to support businesses and self-employed affected by the pandemic, for financial support to beneficiaries of State aid and loans, and empowers the autonomous communities so that they may have a margin of flexibility to add eligible sectors receiving such aid. An important fact, because Euskadi added 78 national codes of economic activity to those 95 CNAEs. On 2 June, the agreement was signed between the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Administration Agency and the Basque Autonomous Community for the implementation of the provisions of article 4.4 of the Royal Decree Law 5 on extraordinary measures. And the Basque Government publishes Decree 155 approving the extraordinary measures relating to the management, processing and economic control of direct aid to self-employed persons and undertakings, and the approval of the basis for granting such direct aid is also available in the order of 29 June. Therefore, the Government, also the Basque Government, in addition to adding budget, is adding economic activities by adapting them to the needs of Euskadi. All the regulations – the Spanish and the Autonomous – have been changing in the needs, and in order to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness of the aid that was being proposed to reach the maximum of economic sectors affected by COVID-19. And the amendment passed between the Basque nationalists, Basque socialists and Euskal Herria Bildu on 27 May which Mr Iriarte previously referred to, in that debate on the measures to be taken to facilitate and speed up the management of the subsidies established to support the sectors affected by the COVID-19, the Basque Socialists consider it fulfilled, fulfilled in all its terms. At all, at all five points. The Government has in fact received more than 5,000 requests for access to these aids, eliminating withdrawals and duplications. There have been 706 refusals, and 4,495 have been valid. The aid granted has been 1,827 and some others are awaiting recovery. And with the last decree approved, Royal Decree-Law No. 17, and with the corresponding orders by the Basque Government, which today published the contents, the object of these aids will make these requests to be extended. And today, as Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative said, the original is also surpassed, except at one point. You wanted, and you want, in the amendment you have had with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, a new aid line of 50 million euros, that the 50 million that were included in those European aid... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... We can-United Left a new aid line of 50 million euros. That the 50 million that were included in this European aid be really, are excluded from it and go to what we want. And those aren't the rules of the game, Mrs. Iriarte, and you know it as well as I do. They are not the rules of the game, because these moneys do not come from heaven, they do not come from heaven, these moneys come from Europe, and therefore we must conform to the European regulatory framework. This cannot be a bag of the bag, the 50 million, and I put it in what I consider to be more urgent or priority. This doesn't work that way, and you know it. That's why it doesn't work that the deadlines can be the ones we want. The deadlines have to be 31 December, he realizes what the results are. That's it and that's the problem of trying to get help out of the sleeve now, like the rabbit in the joker, I take out the 50 million and we do what we want, because it's not worth the centralism thing, and here the autonomous we do what we want. You are well aware, and you are a clear example of the fact that every time the Basque Government has brought in aid with self-government under way, with all its tools and tools at the service of the citizenry, you have always opposed all aid in the health, economic and employment fields, in any matter arising as a result of the COVID-19, you have aligned all the opposition to go against that aid. That's his image of what self-government is. You are against the self-government of Euskadi. Here it's not worth putting and matching now centralist codfish against what good we Basques could do. It's not true, it's not true. You have always opposed more to more, because everything is insufficient, because the Basque Government has not worked soon and well, and you have always considered the alternative by putting forward plans that are smoke and that is no realistic alternative to the needs of those who have suffered the consequences of COVID-19 in the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u9	Thank you very much. The president, the second vice president, the chief physician, all good days. Well, today, because of the pandema, we'll talk about the sizes of the Araba, Biscaia, and the muscles and autonomists. Today, we speak again of royal decrees, if either this Chamber or this Government have not participated in the consent of this decree, either in the design or in the consent of this decree. And to-day we shall speak of certain measures, those in a royal decree. And the Jeld Party of the Eucta was not agreed on the mode of making a decree either of the content or of the royal decree, which you may know. And today, again, we're going to talk about the company that's nothing but the Administration management, we all know. The conditions decided by the Central Government, as endorsed by the Congress of the Deputies of the Royal Decree 5/2021, we thought and said, that they could not be efficient, that they could not be effective, since we understood that they could over-constrict the typology of potential beneficiaries of the aid and that they could not take into account the reality of the economic fabric of our Autonomous Community. Some figures have already been given here. The result of the aid programme, at least so far, is not being desirable. It is true that it will be a lower number of applications than expected, and therefore a logically lower level of implementation than we would like. And that's why they have been studied and made changes from the central government that have been transferred (?) the legal order of this community. It has already been said that a new deadline is being opened today following the latest amendment extending the time limit for applications to increase the period of computable debt, as well as accounting losses. We believe that this new deadline for applications has been opened today and will increase the number of such applications, and obviously, as a result, the amounts granted. How much money, because at the moment I personally do not know it and out of prudence I do not see you able to venture a figure of what is going to be the final amount of such aid, which is going to be directly related to the number of applications that are submitted. We want it to be the highest possible execution, because that will mean that more funds have reached our economic fabric. We and we called for other amendments to the decree that would have made it possible to expand the number of self-employed and self-employed beneficiaries, but the reality is that what has been approved has been approved and that is what the Department of Economics and Finance, which I remind you is manager, is not a designer of this aid programme. Well, it wasn't possible today to get a transaction deal, the way we got it on the 27th of May last May. And what we're supposed to say is, you're just saying, "You're making a big deal." new activities have been introduced, public resources have been established, the bureau has invested the necessary human resources, and the administrative resources have been facilitated as much as possible. And the Basque Country, Mr. Irart, has said so recently from this tribe. And we have reached an agreement fundamentally for the request that is made in this case from the groups that have sex to create a new line with resources... aid from the Basque Government's own resources to meet the needs of those sectors which have not been able to benefit from the aid contained in Royal Decree 5/2021 and the successive amendments which have been made. By the way, a few days ago this issue was re-discussed in the Congress of Deputies and as far as I know, no group has said anything... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... They've been happening. By the way, a few days ago this issue was re-discussed in the Congress of Deputies, and, as far as I know, no group has said anything. Certainly, the legislative mechanism, the vehicle chosen by the central executive to amend Royal Decree 5/2021, because in our view it was not the best one to provoke that debate, it was not. An additional provision in the Royal Decree Law that had nothing to do with what we discussed today. But the truth is, no group has said anything. And some, even, did not say anything when the first Royal Decree Law we are talking about was debated in Congress. We talked about the lack of Madrid, Mr. Irart, but you didn't say anything there. In the first discussion, EAJ will say so about the theft. And your team on this debate didn't participate in that discussion. "Es más, alguno de sus diputdos votó a favor; no sé si por error o para el 177 que hacía." Proposamenera itzuliz, erdibidekora, well, erdibidekoa egin duen taldeak zein zuzenketak egin dabezan taldeek ildo edo programa berri bat sortzeko eskatzen dotsie Eusko Jaurlaritzari. Ñabardura batzuekin, éta ez dodaz orina ñabardura oriek baloratuk. Eta has lost an artean gure score. In our view, it is not feasible to articulate a new decree that can be resolved before 31 December, nor is it appropriate to provide it with funds that, in any case, are intended to support another call that is still open today. Someone could say, and in fact, well, I think it has dropped in the first interventions, that if there is no material time, then change the conditions. For example, extend the call beyond 31 December. But what is happening is that today the date of 31 December is immutable; not because this Parliament says so, not because this government wants it, 31 December is set by the Community temporary framework and the State temporary framework as the deadline for such aid. A special temporary framework for state aid, in this case, intended to support the economy in the context of COVID-19. If this time frame does not vary, and today it seems that it will not change, the rules for the design of aid, subsidies by states and autonomous communities lose the legal umbrella under which they could be granted. And back to the pre-pandemic situation. They re-activate the previous state aid rules, re-activate market protection measures, and therefore cease to operate the derogation contained in Article 107 of the Treaty on Union, which has enabled such decisions to be taken and such aid programmes to be designed. To this day, what we know is that the umbrella regime disappears on December 31, 2021. Within, counting on today, 49 working days. And from 1 January 2022, if no other decision is taken by the Commission, it is also normal in this respect. And from that date on, if that umbrella is not extended, it is very likely that everyone – they will allow me the expression – will have to reset. Because the current aid policy, which has so far been positive and essential for the sectors of our economy most affected by the effects of COVID-19, will have to adopt different formulas, other formulas and lines so far used. We have to communicate again to Brussels, Brussels has to accept again, and so on. We return to the situation, to the pre-pandemic legal framework. I insist, if you don't change that time frame. If there are changes in the time frame decided by the Community, by the Commission, and if there are changes in the State time frame, we could be talking about other issues. But today the top is December 31, 2021. We hope that a new time of demand obtained under cover of the motion of the King, well, better results than they have hitherto obtained. And that's the line that goes with the Socialist Group's correction. In that place, I'm asking you to come to the latest changes made by the Royal Law as quickly as possible. And that's how it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing over to the non-correction teams, Mist, Mrs. Martinez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors. This debate that we are starting today in this plenary is further proof of the impact of the state of autonomy on the management of the crisis, both health and its derivatives. It is, of course, a clear picture of what co-governance really has been, that is, decoordination, confusion and, for many potential recipients of the aid in question, has also been crisis and poverty. It is not to be welcomed that today we are assessing the greater or lesser success of an order for aid to companies and self-employed affected by the pandemic, dated, moreover, last June and appropriate a month later, because it is not the competence of this regular government to convene. All we do is throw more wood into the fire for those most economically affected by COVID-19, which is what we really should be worried about. The greater or lesser success of such initiatives or initiatives no longer depends so much on the content of the order or decree itself as on the administrative structure of this country, on a competitive and understandable division that hinders the achievement of the objectives that are said to be pursued. Of the different initiatives that have been brought into this debate today, the one that sounds the best, of course, is that of the People's Party. We know you're doomed not to leave, but it's the most consistent of how many are presented. Although, as I have already mentioned, this issue should blush the crisis managers, both in the Spanish Government and in the Basque Government. And they should be ashamed to be talking on 20 October about entrepreneurs and self-employed people who do not get the help, they have only reached 4,000 people. It is very curious that only 4,000 people have been able to access these aids. And, moreover, as it is currently considering increasing consignments for people and workers who, in many cases, no longer have business or jobs to save. What are we going to do with them now? In short, the current competition split has been more a brake than a guarantee of good management, and today we are facing a test... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] What are we going to do with them now? In short, the current division of competition has been more a brake than a guarantee of good management. And today we are facing one more test. We have others, such as the dance of restrictive measures or the different vaccination plans. This distribution has generated enormous confusion among the recipients of the aid, because of the diversity of needs, because they do not know which body to go to, which body to be competent, because they have to force entrepreneurs and self-employed people to do doctorates, nothing less, to know when, how and to whom I have to address. That's something easy to modify. And I believe that if there is an interest on the part of the Administration in modifying and exposing this procedure much simpler, it is a viable thing. Today's debate reveals a profound lack of awareness of the reality that is being addressed. How many entrepreneurs, self-employed and workers are in need, how much aid is needed to offer them a present and a future, how urgent such aid is to give priority. And from that knowledge is where it should emanate a concrete economic amount, the essential to meet real needs and not just forecasts, as is being done in all interventions so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the day's answers, EHG, Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u13	Thank God, Mrs. President. Well, first of all, I'm glad we agree on a basis that is, we don't agree with the formats that Spain designed by the Decree 5/2021 Decree. I believe everyone except the main force in the Spanish government. But, well, it's not a little bit. We agree on the basis, at least on that basis. But, Mrs. Corcuera, I may not have been well understood. Knowing we can't modify, we don't have enough time to amend the decree, because on August 31st... 31 December, sorry, August has already passed us, knowing that there was no time to change, what we were proposing is that, with own funds, that would arise. And last year, on 12-13 November, one call was made available to the citizens, to the hoteliers, and on 30 December, to the tourism sector. If you want, you can. On the other hand, I hear that the European Union intends to reschedule on 31 December and that (...). But there are structural needs. And when we have proposed GNP and the point of change, we suggest that the most disadvantaged and weakened economic sectors have emerged. We have, we need to modernize the trade sector. And there are certain aids which, of course, are valid and fit into the legal system and the needs that exist, because we have to digitise, we have to modernise, we have to regenerate, we have to promote urban regeneration. For example, the Hirigune programme, which was encouraged to the municipalities, which this year has not started as in previous years or not so much, was a very interesting programme. And what we propose is that we make a very concrete reading, which is that after the pandemic there are sectors that were already having a bad time and that have gotten worse. And that, having economic resources, such as those that the Basque Government has, and we proposed, because the Basque Government itself proposed to adhere to the 218 of the 50 that will be put in the hands for the promotion of those economic sectors that have emerged more weakened. I sometimes see words as "políticamente correcto." And that's where we place all the help that announces. But, on the other hand, there are words and decisions. And in these decisions we often find that political decisions do not pretend to increase the expense, because I see some departments, trades, tourisms, and trades which try to draw. But I notice, or he has a sense of those who handle the budget (... for they do not want to be disgraced. And, after all, we return to the same discussions of the previous crisis. What role does the public administration have to take in an economic crisis to respond to 100 economics in response to society? Therefore today, and it has been agreed that this other proposition of the 27th law of May has been made a great part of it. It was said to symplify the transmitation. The change of this royal decree does not symplify the transmitation. I was the last transformation yesterday, reading the final modification, and I said: "Joe, even if you understand this, you have to make a teacher." But we can agree that that that's full. We wanted to take another step today, too, and we wanted to take another step. And because we think this government has muscles and, as I said, I don't say this, but it was in the papers too: "El Gobierno Vasco propone el gasto más alto de sua history para combair la pandemia." The effects of the Pandemade are pandemics. And if we have money, we don't take them into the hands of citizens and economic sectors, we think it's a mistake. We'll see, when the settlement of these 218 million is made, how much of the benefits they've had, and how much money they're going to the little house, how much they don't spend. And then we'll get the consequences. But we think today's a chance is lost. We will agree on our side at least half-way, but if we think that the others are short, we will not be able to protect them when we think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Soto, together, represent the Podemos-Nozzer Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u15	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. It seems to me to be denoting, as if... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u16	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. It seems to me that denouncing, as is done by certain groups, even with which we have negotiated the mobilization of public resources made by the coalition government to deal with this pandemic, is altogether, in the end, adventurous, bearing in mind, moreover, and it has been said, that most of the measures that have been put in place to alleviate the consequences of the pandemic have generally been sustained by the majority of the parliamentary groups here supported with regard to the groups that are in Congress. And bearing in mind that the 7 billion direct aid funding line cost, and I say, our group, it was very hard for it to go forward within the coalition government itself because there were, and I do not want to recall now public statements by members of the coalition government regarding how ineffective it was to apply direct lines, not the conditions of the royal decree itself, but to articulate and implement policies of direct support to those affected by the crisis, to usher in this path seems very adventurous. In any case, it is true, and in addition publicly we have, or have said, that the royal decree was necessary to adapt it, and it has been, over time and unfortunately, if from the first moment I had arranged the flexibility of the conditions that have finally had to be applied in the royal decree, we would probably be talking about something else as to the number of collectors who have enjoyed the line of financing that was originally intended to apply or materialize. Because, in fact, our group, at an initial moment, proposed to have 11 billion direct lines at the state level which, as a result of the negotiations itself within the coalition government, we had to reduce to 7 billion. We believe that the design of the royal decree is true that it could have been, or should have been, quite improved, and that, if it had been so, then, as I was saying, the number of collectors would have been another. We do not pray when we recognize, in this sense, those errors in the development of the royal decree. We believe that if we had disposed, of course, of the majority in the Government of Spain, probably, and also of a different arithmetic majority in the Congress of Deputies, the articulation of the royal decree would have been different. In any case, we believe that, on the part of the Basque Government, more resources could have been mobilised, and also the application of direct aid lines, and not only remained in declarations regarding the optimisation of resources coming from the royal decree, but that the Basque Government, also in this regard, should have been a protagonist and had, in addition to applying incentives and deductions and endorsement credits, also put forward direct financing lines that would have provided guarantees for optimal access to those who needed them. It is a pity in any case that we have not achieved a compromise, bearing in mind that, of course, the assumption by the groups that have traded, of the impossibility for time of amending the royal decree and withdrawing that point, because we thought that, on the basis of that, the opportunity could be given to reach an agreement, bearing in mind that we have limited ourselves to a campaign, as I said, of mobilization or pedagogy of the royal decree among the perceptors, or susceptible perceptors, and, if necessary, of the possibility of mobilizing 50 million, which the Basque Government has always said that it had there to generate new lines of support for those in need. In this regard, let us hope that on future occasions we will be able to reach wider agreements in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, as the debate progresses, I think it is clear that the groups in this House who also have representation in other bodies, because they may be – as it cannot be otherwise – according to the need to provide support to the entrepreneur, then what we cannot be, or perhaps we can have somewhat more distant positions, that is the way to do it. But I believe that this whole process, which has been very sad in many ways, of course, but above all the point of view – I say – of managing a number of aids, I believe that what we should draw here is a lesson. I think what we should do is learn from the mistakes that have been made. We have always been in favour, from our position, logically, as an opposition group, of reaching agreements and transactions, in this case with the Government, that are positive for the business community, for SMEs, which is the economic muscle; it is the one that really creates wealth on this earth. We're here... I mean, because earlier I believe that Mrs Corcuera has put us a little in the same bag as the whole opposition and so on, and that the whole opposition is not constructive. On 27 November, we reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government, precisely on this issue. Look, I read you what we agreed: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to approve for the next financial year 2021 a new programme of financial support for SMEs, self-employed professionals", "to establish new conditions of access to loans among other extremes", "that the period of their cadence goes from one to two years", "that the deadline for their return from five to eight years", "that a specific line of support is created for sectors most affected...", etc., etc. It would be good if we were told how this is; I imagine they will say that they are already in it. But man, I think this is a matter where there's a lot of haste because, every day that happens, the truth is that the businessman is having a worse time. Look, the situation of the self-employed, in Spain and in Euskadi, the truth is that it differs a lot. And it differs a lot in this case because, while since March 2020 at the national level in Spain there are 70,000 more self-employed people, Euskadi has almost 700 less self-employed people. It is that the crisis of the self-employed in Euskadi is not just a crisis of the covid. The covid, of course, has been... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... Euskadi has almost 700 less autonomous. It is that the crisis of the self-employed in Euskadi is not just a crisis of the covid. The covid, of course, has been the finish for many of them and has affected them very much. But it's just that for years now, at least, come on, the last few periods, you don't think... since 2018 there is no positive balance of creation of... or new self-employed in Euskadi. And in 2018 the balance was very small. Almost 1,400 were lost in 2017 and almost 1,500 were lost in 2019. I mean with this, the autonomous are always the great forgotten, and that's what the financial muscle is. By 2021, there will be more self-employed by receiving the cessation benefit than by receiving these so-called direct aid. I believe that this opportunity has been given to us, since there was some agreement, in this case even negotiation, of possible European funds to help the entrepreneur, we are doing them not a weak favor, but we are really failing them. Mr Atutxa has given some information before. He has said that, man, this aid is until December 31st. Looks like he's almost put a death date on them. Man, it's true that there's actually a budget framework. But this type of aid, which is aid to SMEs, would fit into what is known as de minimis aid in the jargon of the European Union, as you are sure to know, is small aid up to EUR 200,000, which may seem a little bit like a big company, but, of course, for an entrepreneur that amount because it is a very reasonable aid. What I'm going to do is when you do it... if you really believe in free economic activity, if you really believe in private initiative, if you really believe that the self-employed are really or should really be the financial muscle, what you have to do is help them. In what way? Well, look, first of all, at establishing a legal framework that is clear. Because what is really clear, what is absolutely transparent is that this series of cross-legislation in which it is not clear, one establishes a framework, the other expands it, the other reduces it, in short, I think we need to have a clear, clear framework. Direct aid must then be combined with incentives. I give you some ideas. Set up in the new order, which I imagine will be prepared right now in the corresponding council, since the criteria of classification (...?) are eliminated. economic activities. No, it's just that the state put a few, the Basque government has expanded, it's been generous. Well, put them all on, put them all on. Clarity. And above all, then clarity... administrative clarity, also that there is administrative clarity on this issue, which I believe is very important. A policy of incentives which also combines tax incentives, direct aid, logically, with an expiry date, which combines tax incentives and which also has a policy of transparency and, above all, of ease, of real one-stop shop would help entrepreneurs a lot. Much more than this type of aid and that many loans, which in the end give almost more work than they finally help. I therefore encourage the groups of the Government to also support our proposal because I believe it was the most complete of those that had been presented. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u20	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Iriarte, you've spent five minutes, the first five minutes of your speech, talking about the general context of the pandemic, as if we came by Tuesday and had not suffered this pandemic. You said that it seemed that the sectors most affected by the covid should be absolutely unknown by the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. Let's see, for putting things in order and putting them in place. Both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, when working to help specific sectors, in this case for the sectors most affected by the pandemic, do so in an orderly and prudent manner. There's no help coming out here for the sake of occurrence. Things are studied and then analyzed and you see if there is a budget. And if there is no budget, in the case of the pandemic, it is put, as has been the case with the Budget for 2021. What I remember, I remember, you didn't count on your support. And I remember he didn't count on the support of the People's Party either. So, when we talk about money, we also put things in their right order. You said, "You haven't answered properly." How? That you haven't answered properly? Answering is wanting everything is worth, that here we get the money we'll see where and promise what is not possible to fulfill? Is that what you're telling us? Because Bildu has raised himself from the very beginning only smoke. He came here with the lighthouse and the banner of the alternative. And from the minute one of this pandemic, when this Parliament was dissolved, when the permanent parliament was functioning and until the creation of the new government and until the management of the 2021 budget, you have only raised smoke. They're not the real alternative. They use sectors and groups in a demagogic and populist way. And they bring them here to Parliament to tell us stories of how they live as if we, the others, were out of a reality. That is the approach, Mr Iriarte. That's been with commerce, with tourism, with hospitality. When direct aid has been raised in this Parliament at a stage of resistance by the Trade, Tourism and Consumer Adviser, you did not support it. They've never supported her. Never since we've been in this twelfth legislature. And he said, "The challenges don't stand alone." Hey, no. But you have to make yourself available. But to a real disposition. Here it's not worth reaching out and when they're going to take the retreat. That's not worth it, Mr. Iriarte. And that's what you've been playing at. And that's what you and your group have been playing from the first minute. Hanging medals that didn't fit them. Because you can't generate vague expectations in front of collectives who are having a bad time. And you have. You have done so at all institutional levels. The Socialists have been able to go with the Charter of Services raised from the municipalities, from the parliaments, from the Basque Government itself, proposing realistic aid. Not you. Not you. Always the most, everything is insufficient, nothing goes. But then, at the time of truth, of having budget support, you wash your hands and flee. And they run away. That's his problem. That's his problem. It's true. Or didn't you vote against the budget? Or didn't they vote against the budget... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...run away, and run away. That's your problem, that's your problem. It's true. Or didn't they vote against the budget? Or didn't they vote against the budget? Or did you not propose help for the hospitality, which even did not cover your needs? Is it true or not? Because there are the minutes in the committee. It's true. The representative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita said that it's very good to profile yourself when you're a government partner. And, look, your group validated Royal Decree 5/2021 of 12 March. He validated it. And Mr. Echenique didn't say anything against it, Mr. Soto. Nothing, nothing against, read the record, but I'll pass it on to you. Nothing. So let's not come here with weird stories. It's true that being in government means that sometimes you have to move from denunciation to governing, to managing, and that sometimes bothers you. But it is not worth profiling in some things as in this history of the Royal Decree, because if it is modified, it is modified by the will of two. And if it is validated, it is validated by the will of several more in Congress, of several more parliamentary political groups. And that's what happened. And, Mr. Gordillo, this "coffee for all" thing and that here some of us are going smart and "once we see it, all ready", that doesn't hang, Mr. Gordillo. That doesn't hang up. "Coffee for all" does not apply when the circumstances are different, when the sectors are very different. That's not worth it. So let's not play cheating, and let's not cheat on the loner. And, on the other hand, to say that the Spanish Government has put in place a safety net which amounts to 20% of the gross domestic product in order to avoid permanent structural damage is not a lie. And to say that Spain's aid accounts for 7.3% of gross domestic product above France, above Italy, is not a lie. That's right there. So consider also a little the tone you use to say certain things and put others in the gutter. This government intended to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u21	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u22	Yeah, right now, president. Ensure health ensure the health of Basque citizens, regain economic activity and employment. And without leaving anyone behind, in that endeavour we are the Basque Socialists supporting this government from the first minute. And nothing you say will let us stop in that endeavour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iriarte said that "if you want, you can." And it is a phrase that, in some cases, can have its value; and in others, not. I want to run 100 meters in less than 10 seconds. Do you think I can? I don't think so, I look in the mirror and I don't think so. Let's see, one thing is that sentences are said, which looks very good "if you want, you can". And then, another thing is that you tell them who doesn't have to manage, who doesn't have to plan, who doesn't have any problem with complying with all the legislation in force, etc., and moving the problem to which you have to do all that. Not whenever you want you can. Not always. It has set out examples of aid that have been adopted under the European umbrella and under the State temporary framework, which at this time and today's date, are in force, but as from 31 December, for what you want me to say, I do not know if you have understood me correctly. He said that (...), little less than he said that the Commission, the European Union, is going to reschedule. I don't know what he's gonna do. I know how long the current umbrella is in place. I don't know what's gonna happen. Mrs. Von der Leyen doesn't call me, she doesn't write me to ask me these things. Not this humble Member of Parliament. I don't know if other people do, from this House, but I don't. So far, at least; the same thing changes from (...). The umbrella closes from day 31. That is what I wanted to say in my first intervention. And then we go back to the previous mechanisms. And the mechanisms above all and we all know them. They weren't automatic, they required a study in Brussels, they could tell you yes, they could tell you no. That is the previous mechanism and what can happen from 1 January 2022 if there are no changes at that level. Mr Soto, it seemed to me to understand you – which I certainly did not understand correctly myself – a little less than to say, that there has been no direct aid here, that there has been no direct aid. That scares me and worries me, because, Mr. Soto, where have you been these past 18 months? Where have you been? If I go over the whole aid list, I am afraid that I will not get to the fifth programme and the Madam President is going to withdraw my speech because there is no more time. I'm worried. I'm worried. Because I've seen him physically in this House, but I don't know where he's been. I don't know. It's a happy day's agreement, and it's going on. He's keeping his promise. And it's not just the company and the self-nominators. They haven't been, and they're not alone. They're helping me out of the City Hall, the Foru Indunda, the Euskok. And that's undeniable. It's indisputable. That's why we're going to vote this morning against our correction and all other proposals. And if we do that res us from now on, we do that reset. If we go in for a while, we'll all need that reset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Missa, Amaia. Mrs Martínnez, it's yours. He mustn't speak. End of discussion, we'll vote for the EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Edemos-Nozer has signed. We can vote. (stopping) [[Start of tape 14]] Together, Podemos-Nozzeral corrections have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 71; supporters 24; opponents, 47; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u26	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. After that, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Popular Group-Chapula team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 71; supporters 7; contraries, 64; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u27	So it's not accepted. And last of all, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucarias. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 40; the contrary, 18: Abstations, 13; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u28	Integer correction has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "In like manner," said Podemos, "that is to say, with regard to the impost of the tribute, which is as follows: To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Soto, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u29	Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are going to talk about an issue that we believe is very relevant and fundamental.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u31	A couple of weeks ago we knew the Pandora Papers, but it would be a long list to list the series of leaks that have been linked to scandals that show us the global tax cloacas and their functioning and their way of operating. And, in short, this last chapter proves that the rich, wealthy, and large companies simply don't pay taxes. Tax evasion, tax avoidance, erosion of the tax base and transfer of profits or deductions to absurdity. Several faces of the same phenomenon. The rich and the big multinationals don't pay taxes, they don't pay taxes. And they get it in different ways. And also, we have to say, for an international architecture of impunity that allows and protects it. International architecture that also has its certain reflection in Euskadi. Citing the Fiscal Fraud Plan, fraud is a criminal, anti-social and insolidary phenomenon that results in an unfair distribution of the tax burden between those who comply and those who do not comply with tax regulations. Obviously, some of these elements have, as the Pandora Papers have shown, a global scale, and therefore solutions must be sought and addressed at the supranational level as well. And, indeed, in the international arena, in recent years more than ever, joint anti-fraud strategies are being made on a larger scale, as, by the way, the Anti-Fraud Plan also contains in its first pages. However, there is much that can and must be done here, too, in Euskadi, to alleviate, to combat tax fraud in any of its many manifestations. A problem that we believe to be chronic, or rather chronic, chronic; because of the lack of political will that has existed on the part of the Government and the parties that support it when it comes to tackling it. Unfortunately, in this area too, the data we have is scarce. And sometimes also, in our opinion, of dubious reliability, when not directly out of step. But the ones we have speak for themselves. I will refer to two reports, which were also moved to this House in court. A report by Serna, Zubiri and Vallejo, and the most recent by Zubiri, FernándezMacho and Gallastegui. That said: the economy submerged in Euskadi represents almost what would represent 20% of the total economy. And how complex fiscal engineering has been since then. How much is the margin for large multinationals to shift tax bases to countries with lower tax rates? How many Basques and Basques are in the so-called Panama Papers. I quote literally the first of these studies, and it says: "that it is impossible to reduce zero fraud immediately; the most reasonable thing is to accept that fraud can be halved – in Euskadi, I say, and this report is ten years ago – and that this objective can be achieved not instantly, but after a few years of implementing substantive fraud correction policies." "The bodies with which we rely – and this is what was also said in the report – are underfunded and, on many occasions, articulated and coordinated with other bodies." And this is already an appreciation of the parliamentary group, in general, the political support with which they count is scarce. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza we present this initiative, which although it has various points and concrete actions... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Ezker Anitza we present this initiative, which although it has several specific points and actions, has as its main objective to demonstrate that the Basque institutions must have a firm commitment to end this scourge, and that it has, and must have, the means and instruments to do so decisively. The transactional to which we have arrived with EH Bildu aims to influence and deploy resources and mechanisms for the truly important. We believe that there must be techniques and techniques that can focus on investigating the most sophisticated frauds of multinationals and big fortunes, and that should be done in coordination with police and judicial bodies, that are systematically, planned and quantifiable, with annual plans, impact studies, indicators that report year by year that this type of crime is being reduced, and that the holes in the outland haciendas are also being reduced. And all this under the watchful eye, the umbrella and the initiative of the Basque Government. We must open the doors and windows of Basque public finances to the agents with whom Basque society has social, political and economic agents who, with a dialogue with the bodies and bodies responsible for the management, inspection and collection of taxes in Euskadi, could help and boost the fight against tax fraud. The lack of transparency, the feeling of isolation, does not allow us to collectively combat this scourge. But, in addition to dialogue, the finances, the areas of coordination and the committee must be able to make real and lasting commitments to these actors, commitments, duties that drive them. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we firmly believe that this is one of the priority issues for this country, because the well-being of people and future social development will depend, to a large extent, on our having a fair, balanced and redistributive tax system. In Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza we have committed ourselves, over and over, to fighting fraud and tax havens. We therefore propose in the initiative, among other things: to increase the number of inspectors, as well as inspections; to increase the number of economic items in line with the increase in personal and technical resources; to use better extra fiscal databases; to create a tax police that works in coordination with the rest of the institutions; to investigate higher non-wage incomes and to prioritize the most serious crimes, creating, as I said, a tax police that expands techniques that are already, unfortunately, being used, for example, against fraud, theoretical fraud in the GIR, fraud against the excluded; to create the observatory against tax fraud, an independent body that, together with the administrations, ensures compliance with the measures taken and the commitments made by them; to combat tax avoidance. We will work against tax engineering and methods that allow big fortunes to use the law to pay less taxes. That is why we believe it is essential for the groups in this House to support this initiative, if it does not at least complement some of the points on which we could all agree. One of the quotes contained in one of the reports I mentioned earlier said that tax fraud delegates the State to require the payment of taxes. If the State does not do everything possible to get everyone to pay, what is its moral legitimacy to demand payment to those who are more controlled and unable to defraud? Simply, if the State does not do its job well by fighting fraud, honest taxpayers cannot be legitimately demanded to pay. It is time to tackle this problem and let those who have the most begin to pay what is theirs. With regard to the amendment tabled by the People's Party, for our part, we will abstain from the proposed initiative, because we do believe that a number of the points contained here are included, which are perfectly acceptable and which, of course, could have been perfectly negotiated. But in any case, there are some that we do not consider or that we do not share. With EH Bildu, thank you for the will to agree and how easy, in this sense, it has been. And, on the part of the parliamentary groups that support the Government, in so far as no amendments have been tabled, it has in this case been impossible to negotiate. But we are prepared to work in this direction, to the extent possible, on future initiatives. And we also believe that they will surely share the spirit of combating tax fraud, although then, as far as material and concrete policies are concerned, we certainly do not have the same positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing to the teams that's running the corrections, Mistto's not here. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u33	It has brought an initiative to this House on the fight against tax fraud. It's a pretty old initiative. I was surprised they didn't bring her in full first. Look, almost a little boy has already brought himself in, registered himself. And finally, they've come to an agreement with Bildu. It is true that we shared some of the points. We will also vote in favour of some of the points, which are the original points that included that of Elkarrekin Podemos. But I think it is worth thinking about what fraud implies and the situation we are in. I understand that if the Government has not tabled an amendment, you have two options, to vote in favour of ours, which I believe is quite reasonable or could also, I imagine it will vote against almost all of them. But, well, let's see if I can persuade him in this little exchange of views. What Mr Soto says or how Mr Soto has started, tax fraud is a scourge in all public administrations. Tax fraud by private agents, individuals, businesses, etc. What happens is that, of course, after this Mr Soto already releases these sentences, which I understand they claim to be holders that the rich and large companies do not pay taxes. Man... Let's see, such criminalization already, from the beginning, of the rich and the big companies... The rich pay a relatively high marginal, i.e.... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...let's see, such criminalization already, from the beginning, of the rich and the big companies... The rich pay a relatively high marginal, i.e. a higher proportion, and the companies with which public services and subsidies and companies are then supported, even though... listen, because it is true that there are companies that through tax engineering structures, because they have a relatively low effective rate, but come on, I imagine that the report you have used is the one requested by the Tax Agency, (?), even that report states that the vast majority of companies have an effective rate of around 17% and higher SMEs, which would indeed have to be corrected, around 20%, when the company tax is at 25, as you know, or 30. The bottom line is that basically there is one... yes there is one, indeed, because one... or there can be certain incentives logically on the part of large companies that have the capacity to set up these structures, and small ones, obviously, because it is not within their reach. The same is true of those you call the rich, people who have a high level of income, indeed, which should also make administrations reflect. That is to say, to what extent the setting of marginal rates that can already spray 50%, which, some court has said there, would spray expropriation, because it is a good thing. That is to say, to what extent it always shudders at the higher rents because it can end up doing or conditioning at the end of the whole system and causing the opposite of what was sought, which is what it always is, that in the end it is the middle classes that bear the majority of the tax burden, that this is what happens every time we hear a proposal, some of your group tending to raise taxes to the rich, because everyone knows that the rich are the bad ones, and therefore those are the culprits and they have to be held responsible. Man, I think that going back a little bit further to what is the proposal that has been established, logically, tax fraud must be curtailed. What happens is that the options also arise, what are the best options, what are the best public policies to tackle tax fraud. First of all, we must bear in mind that we cannot live on an island, that is, these issues, and especially if we are talking, using the arguments of the proposer, of large companies, we are talking about people with high economic capacity who have the possibility of precisely establishing structures that are legal, they are legal, if they would not, international structures that allow them to pay very few taxes, for man, I believe that here what has to be, indeed, and it is a debate that we are having right now in the European Parliament, because there must be international agreements, there has to be, indeed, international agreements. In Europe, everyone knows the situation in Ireland, until recently the situation in Luxembourg and even in the Netherlands, and so on. But that too has to be put in relation to what these countries also offer, a very important legal certainty. I believe that the Spanish Government has a lot of room for improvement in the area of legal certainty, a lot of room for improvement. I'm not going to talk about renewables anymore, etc., but listen to one of the things that many international investors say that they care about Spain, precisely, it's that lack of legal certainty that arises, here you can perfectly change not only the tax issue, but you can change labor legislation or you can change your own... the very characteristics or legal framework of your company from day to day. That's why I think it's... tax fraud is also addressed by establishing a structure with a guarantee of legal certainty, especially for investors. Then we must also preach with the example. Administrations have to set up systems of collection that are logically effective and efficient, and then they have to set up grant policies that are also effective and efficient, and then we have to hold everyone accountable for failing to do so, we have to hold the rich to account for the rich who are not rich, but who has received a grant or who is referred to as another person for assistance, etc., etc. All that has to be done, all that has to be done, that is, in the end... And here it reminds me a little of the story that happened at the end of the 19th century in Sweden. In Sweden, there are books on economic history that also had relatively high corruption problems among private actors themselves, and today Sweden is one of the most transparent countries there is. How did they solve this? So with transparency. It is true that in the Nordic countries there is almost a habit of watching one another and saying, you know that in many countries of northern Europe any citizen can consult the neighbor's tax return and the neighbor knows that you have consulted the neighbor's tax return. I am not saying that we are going from one day to another to one of these levels, but I do believe that transparency is important in the end. Transparency, of course, is important. I therefore welcome the initiative which I thought was of interest, the amendment which I have tabled, which I encourage the Government to support. In addition, I encourage the Government to support it using the Government's own arguments. The Tax Coordination Body is true that it has already used, for example, the bases of the (?) has used a number of international indicators to carry out these studies. I would still have to implement a number of additional criteria on directives, etc. on taxation and some anti-fraud issue, but, well, it has started to do so and I think that the Tax Coordination Body is a body that would be of great interest for it to develop or to coordinate and present a number of proposals to the rest of the bodies with fiscal powers which, as you all know, in the case of Euskadi, is quite complex, because a number of proposals. All this within the framework, logically, of the respect for this separation of powers that exists between these different bodies. But the fundamental conclusion of this debate I believe is, of course, that I do not believe that any group in this House is in favour of tax fraud, whether it comes from companies or from individuals. What I think we logically disagree with are measures, but in those measures I believe that all administrations have to act in a very coordinated way. And with this I'm ending. Firstly, from an international point of view, especially the ideal framework is the OECD, to establish common criteria. They are already beginning to establish and now they remain to be implemented at the level of the European Union, but the number of states would remain to be expanded, the number of states to be expanded to reduce the number of states that are usually included annually in what are called tax shelters. You know it's a bad translation, they're not tax havens, but they mistranslated the (?), they are actually shelters, not tax havens. What would have to be done, obviously, because if not at the end of Europe, it has some states that maintain a high level of public spending through their services... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... tax. And that would have to be done, obviously. Because if not, in the end, Europe, which has some states that maintain a high level of public spending through their public and social services to maintain a relatively high level of social equality compared to other countries, but of course, then the big contributors that could be, and in which in part rests all that it is to cover that kind of public spending, because it could, logically, look for other countries that are more attractive. What is attractive about Europe? Well, look, legal certainty, where we in Spain have failed quite a bit. I refer to a very recent situation that has emerged in the press, about a director of a Spanish multinational dedicated to electricity, who has decided that there are also very large investments in the United Kingdom. I mean, it's that the lack of legal certainty, logically, then has its consequences. And then, finally, also increase transparency and, above all, increase accountability processes. I believe that is fundamental, but we must start by establishing a common framework that will then be implemented from top to bottom. Setting conditions that may initially appear very strict, very noble, etc., in a small framework, as may be the case with Euskadi, is, above all, a flight of capital, a flight of companies to other places that may be more attractive. That is why it is essential here to do what I tend to hammer out your ladies and gentlemen, which is to increase coordination between administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Meet the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, this time, we've got a fight with the fraud, we're going to argue again. It's said, Mr. Soto said, that in the past few weeks it's the theme that's in the pile, because it's Pandora Papers. But it's not the first time this happens, and unfortunately it won't be the last one. I'm sure we'll find the gossips in the press. We see again the prime ministers, the great companies, the famous sportsmen, who have often been set up as models in our society, the society, the elussion and fraud of that society. Such a novelty enables the struggle against fraud and exile to be once again in the first line. And we must give them a choice in the institutions, in order to penetrate into this conflict and strengthen new engagements, because it is a struggle against all of us, a struggle against fraud, because it is a struggle for all of us. All this must give us a chance to penetrate into the social responsibilities of taxes, and, as I have at first said, all these people are deceiving the whole society to explain and make it clear. Together today, Podemos' proposal is about the constitution and the needs of the combat committee against fraud. For this struggle we must set up as much resources and equipment as possible, and in that case the Basque Country has always been and will always be. The struggle against fraud is an important part of the tax policy. It is not a sudden struggle, or a direct relation to the policy of taxes; it is entirely related and very important. The struggle against fraud is necessary to talk about tax system escapes. The proper and sufficient system of tax duties which are necessary for the development and support of such public services is, in short, essential enough to form the system of tax resources necessary for public funds, and this section is essential also. The strength of the struggle against the fraud is essential. And society ought to know that its taxes are of importance to the support of public services, and that the artifices which some of them employ, not to pay taxes, will not remain in it, especially from public administrations. And furthermore, the use of this kind will be more and more difficult, and that all the means of doing so will be put into force by the authorities. We are aware, as has already been mentioned, of the work that is being done against tax fraud, and of the importance that has been attached, for example in recent years, to strengthening the exchange of data between estates, which was so long being demanded. Not only from different political forces, of course from Euskal Herria Bildu, but from the own inspectors and inspectors of the Treasury, who at last and at last are the ones who are in the day-to-day fight against tax fraud. But this is not an obstacle for us to believe that the fight against tax fraud, in this fight, must equip ourselves with more tools; we must equip ourselves with all the tools. More tools, and an active involvement of all the actors involved. There is still a way to go, and, from Euskal Herria Bildu, on several occasions, we have put on this table steps to take on that path, and we will certainly continue to do so from here on out. Because we firmly believe that the fight against tax fraud is the fight for public services and the development of an advanced and cohesive society. Because tax fraud affects all of us. Because what some are defrauding is what we all need to be able to make public policies, for example in health, education, social services or economic development. Because we must equip ourselves with all those tools that not only allow us to detect the fraud that has already been perpetrated, but allow us to prevent it; let us even prevent it. Because it's about knowing as much as possible about fraud, because that's the only way we can deal with it. And as important as identifying tax fraud, and acting against it, is knowing the environments and activities most conducive to it; the ways and methods most used. In short, the route of fraud and how to prevent it. That is fundamental in the fight against fraud and tax evasion... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... used. In short, the route of fraud and how to prevent it. That is fundamental in the fight against fraud and tax evasion. And, to penetrate into all this, the tools and resources must be placed on the table. In our proposal to-day, there are new instruments and roads which will serve to strengthen the present. They won't be the last. As a matter of fact, it won't be the last proposal, because in this fight there will always have to be a step forward. They have a great machineman on the other side, and they have a great machine for themselves. We cannot content ourselves with deceiving figures less than those of the state, or content ourselves with having more than last year's data. The struggle against fraud, with a dare of tax policy, can give us more resources, the average and length of time, to activate public policies for the development of society and economy. In fact, if we want to be more efficient against the prosecutor, we have to be all active tools. And their taxes like that... And, in fact, the people who pay their taxes in a religious manner, who are bored to see how some of them carry them raw, that society deserves to do everything that is in our power. In this struggle against fraud, in order to end the evil of deception, or at least to smooth it. Today, we signed the middle line with the team's proposal. As I have said, the agreement has been easy on this subject, because we believe that it is an excellent opportunity to make this series of precautions against fraud, and to insist on further demands of the corresponding organs. Today, from this legislature, we believe that we must give a clear message to the euscal society: that the Euscal institutions would renew and strengthen their resources and instruments in the struggle with fraud. I said when I spoke: This is a fight for all of us. It's not a small thing. We know there are several international movements and international coordination is essential. We will by no means deny this, and this is what we are in, but it is clear from this small town that things can be done. And we have to make these things work here, knowing that international co-ordination is essential to us, even our ogaunes, to keep their work going. And we'll have to move forward in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u37	Thank you, President. There have been many initiatives and debates in recent legislatures, both in plenary and in committee, on taxation and tax fraud. And if we have met all the groups in the various debates, two of them in monographic format, is that taxation is one of the most important tools for achieving greater equality, solidarity and social justice. A fundamental tool for building a fairer society, as it provides sufficient resources for public administrations to sustain the maintenance of services and benefits, to effectively redistribute wealth among the population and to boost growth and job creation. I therefore think it is important to stress that we have always agreed on the substance of this issue. The Basque Socialists have been committed to the fight against tax fraud from the start. It was precisely in the 2013 tax monograph that the creation of the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud was unanimously approved, laying the groundwork for further deepening in this area. The three outlaws and the Government work in the composition of this committee. Because it is only possible to give the battle to this scourge of tax fraud since close inter-institutional collaboration. This committee, as you know, has, since 2014, drawn up joint annual plans to combat fraud and the issuing of annual reports with the results obtained. To date, seven joint tax fraud plans have been approved and the six annual reports have been submitted. With an implicit recognition that the fight against tax fraud is a complex and highly technical task, which requires specialized professionals and the use of all the means that knowledge and technology make available to tax administration bodies. These integrated annual plans classify the actions to be carried out into three types: information-gathering actions, preventive actions and regularisation and recovery actions. Information-gathering and preventive actions will not provide any amount of fraud that has arisen directly, but are a necessary pre-requisite for the detection of fraud and to minimise the risks of fraud, as the optimal scenario for any tax administration is to avoid the commission of fraud. For its part, the regularization and recovery actions are those that allow regularization and collection of tax debts that have previously been defrauded. The debt discovered in 2019 has reached 802 million euros, placing itself in the middle range of the debt discovered in the last five years. And it represents 5.8% of the total amount collected by the Foral Finances in 2019 by negotiated own-management taxes. During 2019, it should be noted that ten convictions of the courts for the existence of crimes against the public finances have been firmly established, with a civil liability amount of almost EUR 22 million. In turn, 11 convictions have been carried out, by way of liquidation, in the amount of civil liability of EUR 26.3 million. In addition, during 2019, the Foreign Treasury has sent nine reports to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions assessing the existence of indications of the commission of ten offences against the Public Treasury for a total amount of EUR 5.9 million. The work is therefore being carried out. Can it be improved? Of course I do. You can always improve in the fight against tax fraud... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... The work is therefore being carried out. Can it be improved? Of course I do. There is always room for improvement in the fight against tax fraud, because we are still in a number of parameters that need to be corrected. We share the view that it is necessary to develop a methodology to evaluate annually the effectiveness of the actions of the joint annual plan that develop the foral haciendas. We share the view that new models of analysis can be established to enable each tax figure to know which elements of the tax are those that are defrauded, which methods are used and who do so. It could also be interesting for this Commission to develop and propose measures for the quantification of fraud. While it is also fair to highlight the progress made to date, which has generally involved: increasing the volume of data obtained by outsourced farms from more sources of information, especially those of international origin, thanks to commitments made within the European Commission and the OECD; better interconnections and expansion of information exchange agreements; strengthening inter-institutional collaboration; strengthening inspection services with more material and personal resources; and developing projects aimed at controlling cash transactions. But if something is essential in the fight against tax fraud, it is the awareness of the citizenry. Therefore, emphasis should continue to be placed on pedagogy, tax education and preventive measures. And if this is important, it is no less important the collaboration on the part of everyone. We all have to work against fraud, especially us. We must contribute to the fight against tax fraud by conveying a clear and clear idea of union and consensus on the work and progress being made in this area, and the importance that Basque tax administrations attach to the fight against tax fraud. The ideal thing is that the discovered irregular fraud was zero. After all the efforts, of course. That would mean that we have a society that is fully aware of tax obligations. But we know that it is a complicated and very complex task, where the results are seen in the medium and long term, and where it is necessary to have highly qualified and experienced technical staff on this issue. I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of the inspectors, subcontractors and tax agents, which in sum amount to 134 people, as well as the work of the outsourced finances which have been making various proposals for amending the tax rules, and which I am aware that the fight against tax fraud is undoubtedly a clear priority in their policies. For this reason, the Basque Socialist Group is not going to support the compromise amendment, as it literally calls on the Basque Government and the outside parliaments in areas which, in our view, are already covered and developed in the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud. I highlight some of them. As regards the participation of more agents in the Commission, it was already raised at the last appearance in September 2019 to explain the joint plan against tax fraud of that year, and it was clear that it was not feasible since the issues being dealt with are of a strictly technical and highly specialized profile, given the complexity of the latter. With regard to the extension and development of new studies, the extension of the Commission's functions to include, among other functions, periodic studies on the quantification of tax fraud and the submerged economy, as well as its specification by sectors of economic activity, was already approved at the General Boards in 2018. On the relationship with the Office of the Prosecutor, the reports of the Commission contain very detailed information on the proceedings before the Office of the Prosecutor, as well as the results of these proceedings. Similarly, both the objectives and the criteria are reflected, what results of the activity aimed at reducing and avoiding tax fraud. Details are given of the number of inspectors, requirements, checks by type of tax, of printed matter, of taxable person, as well as the amount collected by type of infringement, whether it is a fee, a taxable basis or the deductions themselves. But it is that, moreover, and to conclude, in our opinion, the aspects proposed in the initial initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and the amendment that you have arrived at, you have agreed with the EH Bildu group, are more appropriate aspects to raise in the midst of the appearances, where the institutional representatives of the Commission against Fiscal Fraud explain and report on the approved plans and the results obtained in the annual evaluations. And what I remember is waiting to ask to know the one for the financial year 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Perez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr Gordillo already commented, right?, that the initiative we are discussing today by the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group on tax fraud should have been debated last year, more specifically on 3 December 2020, but the proposing group postponed its debate. I thought innocently that it was due to the presentation, almost in parallel, of another initiative that also includes labour fraud. I also thought that you were postponing the debate because the initiative presented and discussed today is identical to that which you presented in 2018, and that as it had not been updated with the international developments in this area that you postponed in the debate for that reason. But not for one or the other, with what we find today with a debate in the same terms as the one raised three years ago, with a regulation and with a completely different international context in fiscal matters. And with this contextualization of the initiative, we hear again that this group, EAJ, and that the Government, I do not know whether it has said that they are not committed or that they are not putting in sufficient resources or effort to eradicate tax fraud. Look, our commitment to the fight against tax fraud is indisputable, and it's nothing new. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud was born of our agreement in 2013 and of our motions for resolutions discussed in this Parliament in the full monograph on taxation of the same year... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud was born of our agreement in 2013 and of our motions for resolutions debated in this Parliament, in the full monograph on taxation of the same year, 2013. And this agreement and these resolutions adopted unanimously, well some group did not vote for them, it has been the germ of all this, the creation of the Anti-Fraud Commission, the task of drawing up joint plans with the participation of the three historical territories and the Basque Government, the implementation of annual plans, the analysis of such reports and plans, and the commitment to collaboration, coordination and exchange of information with other institutions. The Basque Nationalist Party's commitment to the fight against tax fraud is therefore unquestionable. What they could do, as a suggestion and in order to avoid these debates, in this case remains somewhat obsolete and, moreover, by the text of the initiative, is repetitive, I would say, because the identical text has already been discussed in this Parliament, is to request the appearance of the Committee on the Fight against Fiscal Fraud, to be informed of its work and, on the basis of these data, to propose, if they so feel, some initiative But the last time the committee came to this Parliament, and it was at the request, I think, of Mrs Pinedo of EH Bildu, was in 2019. Since then, no movement, no questions, no requests for attendance, nothing. So, I think it would be reasonable to listen actively to the experts, and to take note of the changes or advances or needs detected by the technicians, the experts in this field. We believe that this is the way forward, because today they are requesting, without having heard, as I said, more resources, more coordination, more actors involved. Even today, and not being in the text of the original initiative, they also ask for the observatory, which, as you know, is an already old debate and which is not even in the text raised today. More, more... Well, the previous debate also raised, more, more and more. They are asking for the same thing as in 2018, but without realizing, moreover, that since then the international fiscal landscape and, in the area you request, has changed radically. And that is why I want to stop commenting on your proposals and amendments. And although I have not seen or have not defended in some detail his points of the amendment or of the compromise, I did want to comment on some points. I do want to comment or argue our position, so that you see why we will not support your proposal, even though we are, of course, even if we share your position that, of course, we must fight tax fraud. First, that the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud is a technical commission. It's not a political commission. So any proposal we make, of course, will, of course, be analysed and evaluated. But it must be distinguished that a plan to combat tax fraud, like the one we have, are concrete actions towards very specific groups of taxpayers and in a very complex matter, such as taxation. I therefore ask you whether you do not consider this to be the best option, that of a committee composed of experts in this field, who propose the action plans and in which the heads of inspection of the outlaws are also cooperating. I do not see, at least, no better place: a technical and coordinated commission. And that listens to all the agents, also to those you propose, to professionals in the field, to trade unions, associations... Then the channel is open. Request, I think EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can get more reports. I just, you know, they're already out... I also believe that Mrs Pérez commented on the report on the measurement of tax fraud, prepared by professors from the UPV, in 2016. It is to which you allude and which concluded that the VAC is better than others in comparison. In 2007, Bizkaia's immersive economy report or Eustat's statistical plan, that there is a statistical operation for measuring the immersive economy, a point suggested in that report, which you have also mentioned, and which is implemented within the Multiannual Plan in 2021. However, it is true that the macronomical reports give us a few general numbers and try to get closer to reality. But then the reality of deception is not known because it is fraud, and otherwise it would be well known. And therefore the work of the Institutions in this part of the world, especially the Aldudians; It's hard work to do, work hard to do. And we know they all do. And I think that's the real value, not the reports we've discussed. And it's true that it's necessary to do that job, and you've also discussed that co-ordination and information exchange is very important. And in that line, I think you're asking for EH Collectors and Podemus, what I mean is that the absence of any treaty does not mean the information is not shared. So that the value of the treaties is important too, but not being so, it doesn't mean the information isn't exchanged, it isn't shared. And secondly, there are contracts. It doesn't mean that they don't do any more, but that they exist and that they don't mean that information isn't shared. And I'd like to discuss the agreements, the agreements, and the information that's shared and with who, because you're asking for the edge and that information. The framework agreement for the exchange of information between the outlaws and the Basque Government with the Tax Agency, for the exchange of information. In matters of inspection, these are coordinated with the Tax Agency, you know, at meetings called the single minutes, and also with other meetings between the heads of inspection. Collaboration with the unit of tax offences, forgiveness, economic crimes of the Ertzaintza; also with the state labour inspection and the work inspection of the Basque Government. A matter, this last one, on which we have already discussed here, my colleague Jon Aiartza, with an approach from my group, which neither EH Bildu nor Podemos supported, in which in our amendment we ratified the importance of the collaboration of planned campaigns with the inspection and monitoring of fraud files. Because, from our point of view, coordination, communication and exchange of information are vital in the fight against tax fraud, as has been shown, and we also advocate it in a previous initiative. And in this sense, Mr. Gordillo, yes... I have not been convinced today in the debate, so I am not going to change my position. What you propose if it would be much easier if the outside institutions allowed them to participate in international tax forums. In the OECD you already know that they do not participate, and in ECOFIN reluctantly. And you know that the outside institutions, the Basques, have a lot to contribute and with a lot of value. I therefore encourage you here to encourage your group to engage the Basque institutions directly in all international tax forums, which will certainly help to improve our plans and that of the other institutions. [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... all Basque institutions in all international tax forums, which will surely help to improve our plans and that of the other institutions. Eta jarraitzeko, the formation and awareness of the citizenry, right?, because all this work must be accompanied with formation and awareness. And there they are, some spokesman has also commented, the tax education project, the TicketBAI project that allows the outland haciendas to control the income of economic activities. And, in the same line of control, the implementation of the SII, the provision of immediate information, which, moreover, continues to be a further adaptation to the digital environment that will make it possible to combat fraud more effectively. And to run this entire program, and the Fiscal Fraud Plan, you're asking for more resources. I will give only one data, and it is verifiable: the outlying estates are increasing the number of troops placed in the service of tax inspection, in general, and of the fight against tax fraud, in particular. This also brings a clear social message. Clear and clear. A clear and clear social message regarding the importance of Basque tax administrations gives to the fight against tax fraud. And some of the last remarks to the last two points of the EH Collectation, which have also been included in the middle of the course with Poseidon. You ask for this committee, and forum aldudias, that the tax collectors of Eescal should not lead their profits to the state of paradise, or to the countries of small oppression. And that's where I'm supposed to tell you that this is for everyone's criteria plan and policy, right? Paying taxes where the value is created. And this is done on the euscal tax system, where there are laws lined up, if you know with the BEPS program, with the ATAC Directians, that the leprosy is up to date; and (is that so? ), in the same way, when you requested an update on the legislation of the fines. The General Tax Standard is already updated to cases of tax offences, cases of simulation. That is, the rule is tougher with the latest reform of the General Tax Standard. But while it's true, and already amaitzeko...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u40	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u41	Yeah. This position that I have defended does not prevent us from sharing your concern about tax fraud. Fraud can't be allowed to truce. We must work from all institutions to eradicate it, and there we are in complete agreement: collaboration and coordination. We do not agree with the method or, basically, with making changes to a plan drawn up by technical staff, to a criterion set by a technical committee. But we do share the view that we must work from all institutions, in coordination and in collaboration for the eradication of tax fraud. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answering round, together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see, for starters with Mr. Gordillo, tell him that I want to make several judgments. Firstly, one related to the way in which you put it that we can avoid, say, tax evasion. Which is, basically, like we talked about... Or have I spoken in my speech about big companies and big estates, well, just as the formula for not circumventing taxes is that they do not have so much tax burden, and that, perhaps, if they are not asked so much tax, then perhaps I will decide to pay here. Man, now, if, of course, if we don't even tax them, surely they will stay here; and if we encrypt the tax burden on them in, come on, a zero eat little, for yes, they will surely tax here; and if we are a tax haven, for indeed, they will tax here, but, in the end, that is not the way I think it is. And then he referred to legal certainty, and he also quoted Mr Galán in relation to the diversion of investments in renewables to other countries, basically because of the legislation that the Spanish Government has recently processed. Man, I mean, of course, if the Government of Spain, or any government with absolute democratic legitimacy, decides to accept certain issues of certain companies or particular individuals for the general interest, if that affect occurs, then we are, in the end, distorting legal certainty. I really don't agree at all. In any case, I do agree with you, and I believe that it is a little common denominator of virtually all the interventions, that this is a problem that goes beyond, without a doubt, the reality of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as well as even the state reality, which requires instruments that are contained in the transactional and also contained in your proposal. It has also been mentioned by the spokespersons of the groups that support the Government. It is necessary to strengthen coordination and interconnectivity between certain administrations and institutions, as well as the exchange of information. In any case, I have not understood too much, perhaps you can explain it to me now, part of the intervention of the spokespersons who support the Government in that it seems that there are steps to be taken in combating tax fraud, but, in turn, almost everything contained in this transaction, which is basically a recommendation or impulse in terms of greater resources, greater relationship and collaboration between institutions and administrations and even more specific plans, is already done. I mean, it seems that all of that is done, that you've been doing it. Well, tell me what it takes, then. That is, if there is no need to strengthen cooperation between administrations and institutions, if there is no need to increase measures and resources, if there is no need for more specific anti-fraud plans, tell me what is needed. Because it would have been grateful if they had recorded it in an amendment, because perhaps we could have reached an agreement. But the reality is that, basically, they have said that it is out of time, but, at the same time, they have come to say that combating fraud is of full relevance, but the initiative is out of time for its registration, not so much, I understand, for the substance of the issue. And then, on the other hand, they come to say that it is necessary to promote certain initiatives that... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... registration, not so much, I understand, from the bottom of the question. And then, on the other hand, it goes on to say that it is necessary to promote certain initiatives that are contained in the transactional, but in turn they consider that everything that is contained in the transactional is done. So, I don't get to understand the coherence of the speech a little bit. In any case, we and we, as I said in my first speech, will not be on this occasion, but will be willing to work and share possible initiatives that will improve the fight against fraud. And if the initiative has to be as you propose through the appearance of experts in this House, then listen, just as we and we can request it, you do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u44	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u45	This time she's president from the seat. I simply intervene to reaffirm the arguments. The truth is that when I debate with Mr Soto and Mrs Berrojalbiz I love these exchanges of views because they help me to reaffirm myself even more in what I originally thought. It is a pity that I did not convince you, because I believe that the proposal we made, which has a slightly more technical profile, was quite reasonable, I think it would improve a lot. And above all, the argument is contradictory, because if the groups that support the Government are saying that it is already being done say that they are voting every day on amendments to the whole of the opposition's proposals, in which they say that it is already being done and they are voting in favour, that is, if it is true that it is being done, they could vote in favour of some of the amendments that the opposition has tabled in this case. I believe, and with this end, that the issue of tax fraud is really a very serious one and that we have a lot of room for improvement, a lot of that depends on having an attractive place to invest, because the issue of legal certainty on which we will have the opportunity to expand the other day is very important, but above all the issue of having also a tax framework that is attractive, fair and reasonable, is fundamental to economic growth and the well-being of all. We will continue to work in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u47	Mr. Gordillo, I think you've already been... answered by Mr. Soto. I too have heard a lot about the subject of referring to the possible flight of capital as a reason not to move taxes. I understand that it is something that from the liberal world stands on the table every day, but I do not think it is the way to build a fair tax system and above all to serve the purposes it has to serve. But, well, we're gonna leave it there. I really, at Pérez and Mrs. Berjalbiz's talk, first bothers me when you hear this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u49	Thank you, Mrs. President. That this is a very important matter, and that you see it so, and well, there may be some places in common, but at the same time you do not present any proposals at all, and that is striking to me. I really think a subject, if you say it's very important, because it seems important to you that what's happening today is enough and that's why... so that when you do not seem to have any proposals laid on the table, there is no proposal at all upon the table. Well, they allude to several questions about the commission. I have to... yes, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, the last time it was me and the last time it was me, because I think most of the times when you came was because Euskal Herria Bildu has asked you to come and explain it, to explain your proposal, and I have usually been the one who had these issues, the reality is that. But that too I think is significant, I think it is also a matter that we need to have on the table. Exchange of information, they were talking to me. I have put it in value and I have put it in value, because I know that there has been an improbable job on the part of the outlaws, because neither among them had... They didn't even speak the same language. Another of the great scourges we have in this country, which do not speak the same language among the foreign parliaments, of course, because that must also be dealt with. I agree with you on (?)relate international issues to the position in international forums. The Basque Nationalist Party knows perfectly well that EH Bildu has put this issue on several occasions on the table, and the counselor knows that we have been talking about these issues to try to move it forward. But what you cannot tell us is that we are asking for things in this proposal without listening to the committee, because if something has been done by this Member, it is listening to that committee from the very first moment that that committee was formed, that we were here and we were listening to what they were saying. And we have heard your complaints inside and outside this Parliament's meeting room, and we have heard, as we were told, that they did have staffing needs, that they did need specialized personnel and that steps are being taken. Nobody doubts that they are taking steps, but are we going to stay calm with that?, are we going to stay calm with the phrase that you said Mrs Berrojalbiz that the tax fraud report of 2016 already said that we were better than in the state?, is that to be calm? I don't think so. I believe that there is nothing wrong with putting the table on the table again and again that we must move forward in the fight against tax fraud, because it is a commitment of the whole of society and I believe that all the institutions must set an example with it. And I believe that today we see how the government groups do not put a proposal on the table before a proposal on tax fraud, and it is not a good thing that society is making that reading a unit in action and in the fight against tax fraud. Honestly, I think you're doing poor favors. We will continue to bring proposals, as Mr Soto has said. We, from EH Bildu we have brought them on different occasions, one of them has mentioned it you and do not worry that you will be there on the table at some point, because we continue to think that it is fundamental, that it is fundamental that an independent analysis also be made of tax fraud, we believe that it is fundamental and that we must make progress on it and we cannot give all things in fact, we cannot say "all this is being done", because although some things are being done, that is true, I will not deny that because I have never denied it, they are taking steps, but things can be improved, because the reality is that fraud... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...things, which is true, and I will not deny that because I have never denied it, are taking steps, but things can be improved. Because the reality is that tax fraud continues to encamp at large and continues to exist. And if we don't want to see it, we can feel very happy giving the tax fraud data out there every year. But it's not about that. It is a question, as Mrs Pérez said, of being able to get us to say "hey, not a euro" in a moment, but not because we have not looked, but because it is not done. That I already know it's a utopia probably, but we must go that way. Because the important thing is not just the tax fraud that comes out, but the tax fraud that is prevented from being done. That is the important thing: the one that is prevented from being committed, the fraud that is prevented from being committed, because that is the one that will have much greater impact in society. I believe that today we are missing an opportunity to give a message to the society of unity of action against one of the basic issues. Because tax fraud is not just that some do not pay, it's that everyone else loses a lot of money to make all those public policies so necessary in this country. And I believe that these public policies have been even more evident this year, and society is aware of that. We must therefore respond to society at the same level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez must not speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. I will start where my first intervention is: expressing the commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party to fight tax fraud. And that it was already formalized with the creation of the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud eight years ago. And that commitment does not stand aside because we have not tabled an amendment, since in our electoral programme and also in the government programme, if they are interested, commitment 150, initiative 7, our will and that of the government is to continue to promote collaboration and coordination with the parliaments, to continue to draw up annual plans, joint comprehensive plans and to improve and deepen information exchange systems. With what I have already answered, Mrs Pinedo and Mr Soto. But do you believe that, seeing what our programme says, that you put forward an amendment saying this is already on our programme, that what we amended in the tax and labour fraud initiative and that you, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, voted against, you who would support us? Do you think it would improve something and that we would be supported by the initiative when we have these precedents? We implement our proposals. And, obviously, Mrs Pinedo, it is obvious that there are things to improve. But if what I have said is what is being done and where we have to go and what our project is, what is our idea on this matter. What I have said is not to your concrete proposal. Not on the subject of tax fraud, but on your proposal. That we disagree with your methodology. It does not mean that another methodology we share and that we also share that we have to eradicate tax fraud. So, don't say here that we had to send a unanimous message about tax fraud, that we all have that clear. Plan a proposal that makes sense, that is up to date on the current international scene. That's where we started talking. To be shared with the experts of the Tax Fraud Commission. That you say, "Yes. We've talked to them a lot." Yeah, since 2019. Is that up-to-date? Since 2009 you already know how the context has changed, the international fiscal landscape. All measures, OECD, European Union ATAD Directives, BEPS. Don't tell me you're up-to-date when even the text of the initiative is the same as the 2018 text. Is that bringing in something innovative? No, no, And with regard to the work that this body is doing, and one last comment, Mr Gordillo; I refer to the third point of your amendment. First, the reports and not the plans are analysed by the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud. And as an example of the information analyzed, you know, is FATCA, all the DACs, the 1, the 2, the CRS of financial account information of the financial institutions of the rest of the member states, all the information of (Tax (...)?), (SIDEAPA?) from DAC6 and Action 5 of the BEPS Plan, and also the programme (...?) action BEPS, which is the Country bay Country of Sport in the Country by Country report, in which information is exchanged about... in the field of international taxation. Therefore, analysis done. Doesn't mean we don't have to improve it, so I said earlier. Two, let the indicators you miss me have seen them and are in the annual report. And that the fraud that has emerged is also quantified in the report. But with regard to quantification, which, I repeat, is quantified, I believe that reflection should be more qualitative. And I think Mrs Pérez has commented on this in the first intervention, which is not a... I think it shouldn't be a quantitative issue, but... that it is not a matter of importance and that, in fact, the ideal is that the tax fraud discovered and the regularizable was zero after making all the efforts. And that would mean that we have a fully conscious society. But unfortunately, that doesn't happen. And yet, we must continue to fight for that to happen. And in this we are committed to the Basque Nationalist Party and directly because the Foreign Finances and the Basque Government itself. And in our opinion, this is the way to work, made from a higher or higher technicianry, which ought to be done among all of us with complete coordination, the inspector, the Government, the Aldudias, the fraud Committee, and the other institutions? Everybody. And when these measures are to be established for different degrees and quarters, they are connected with Europe with a complete co-ordinately co-ordination, with the OCDE. Euskal organizations, yes, participated directly in international debates, as I said before. And here, for instance, is the European Union making its way to a single spectator of the Union, and with such enterprises. But to do that, the Basque institutions must work on the same level as Europer and OCDE or... they have to be in the right category, and to place the point of view and improvement on the table. We, from the EAJ Group, have clearly a necessity of resisting the prosecutor, which is obviously not to be interrupted, by providing resources, and by encouraging and recognizing the work which the Committee of the Court of Fraud makes. With this and that kind of work-related message. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and that way of working. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer and the middle-direction that the EH Collect has signed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u54	Madam President, if the proposing groups are not inconvenient, we would ask for a separate vote on the points. 1, 2, 6 on the one hand, and 3, 4, 5 and 7 on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u55	All right, all right. We'll vote for 1, 2, 6 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters, 26; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u56	So they didn't take 1, 2, and 6 points. Next up, 3, 4, 5, 7 points will be voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters, 32; the opponents, 41; the abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u57	So the other points have not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 7; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u58	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mode, introduced by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors, in order to regulate eucanasia concerning the realization of the Organic Law of 3/2021. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Uberia has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u59	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...we bring very precise measures. In the development of Eutania's law to protect the funk, to keep moving, and to give her a push. Since Eutania's law broke in in March, the growth of the EAE law is in progress. So we don't want to tell you that Christmas didn't do anything, but we're here to give you a little shove to follow the growth of the law. The citizens who have worked with dignity for years to die, and precisely the DMD Society in this house to reveal the demands made in the Medical Committee, so that the desktop and the Health Department may be able to run. We have seen that Berme and Evaluation Committee have been formed in April to develop the law of eucalypæsia, and that the Medical Department has accepted a decree for this, the 25th of May, the Decree of 145/2021. We have also seen afterwards that the members of the same board were appointed by the order of June by the 8th. Although it was true, when all this started, many of the doctors confessed and refused, not because you are so much against the eucanasia, but because of the care which it was supposed to be. But it is true that so many of the professionals had taken a step forward, and had taken a step forward, and had taken care of themselves. And thanks to these professionals, the law of the eucanasia is finally developing, and this right of asking for help to kill is in progress. We need to remember that being a member of the Berme and the Obligation Committee is a volunteer job. So in the State News Official, March 25th, the article which came into force from the day after the law was published has been completed, namely, the formation of the House of Berme and Eve. And people can develop their right. It has therefore been taken a step, but it is time to take another step, that there is a right to die with dignity, and that the people may know this right. And this is the duty of the Government, that the people may know that there is a right, that the people may receive precise information, and that the yellow and morbid treatment which may be given in some cases. The people must have information, understand, precise information. We need to let them know where they can make a document, where the process is, etc., etc., etc. And that's, after all, a job for the Medical Department. It's time for the right to become popular and normalized. It is also time to normalize death in our society. The taboos around death must be broken. In the end, in cases of this kind, there are many suffering, and it is time to end even with these sufferings. Life... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... In cases of this kind, there is a lot of suffering in cases, and it is time to end even with these sufferings. Because life can't be understood without death. And if we proclaim a worthy life, we must inevitably proclaim a worthy death. When the Association for the Right to a Dignity Death came to the Health Commission we were urged, we were stressed the importance of informing, informing citizens about the new right that the Law of Regulation of Euthanasia recognizes, of carrying out a wide media campaign in different media, explaining those aspects that citizens must know: what is the right, what is the process, the procedure for choosing the professional or health professional, etc. Of course, that also implies strengthening the registration of early wills. And we think it's time for that. And, in passing, we think that this debate, today's debate and that the issue is on the political agenda helps. Another important idea. It's essential to form professional health. We were strongly strengthened on the one hand by the information, the information, the information of the socialization, and, on the other hand, of the formation of the professionals. And so, in integrated sanitary organizations, step forwards to form teams. First of all, by the first ready attention, and by the direction of the means, to the attention of the first consuls. And there's a big hole in it. It is necessary that the health professionals should determine the conditions and functions of duty in this work. To know exactly what are their functions, and what resources they have for it. It is also true that we received and received it in our motion, and insisted on the removal of the tramiocratic tracts, filled with obstacles, and thereby abolishing the obstacles. But, for the moment, it seems that no such thing has happened until we know that procedures are going well in transmation. That's how we hired him. Of course, if the demand increases, it will always be dangerous to get involved in bureaucracy and make more difficulties in these proceedings. Therefore it is important to establish the necessary resources, because it will increase or be so. Of course, we also demand that all the citizens of the EAE should have access to the right mentioned, and receive it in equality. And service guarantees two official languages. I will not be the one to defend the development of the organic law. We ought to have the right to die with dignity, not because it is in the law, but because we believe in it by conviction, because we think so. And for this no doubt, the means of conviction for this development must be opened. And we should put them on. What is received by the organic law has been introduced as correction by groups supporting the government. What you do exactly is take an article that is received in the law and take it as correction. And we're not gonna be the one who's going to doubt that it's not going to happen to the organic law. This satisfaction, however, cannot be limited to a bureaucratic filling, that is to say, to a purely speculative development, but must be a material fulfilment, and in the fulfilment of it, in some measure, this development should be, in setting up the means, and in setting up all the means to develop what is received in these documents in order to penetrate into it. For we are all very conscious that the laws can be fulfilled, that they may be partially filled, or that they may remain in the drawers. It seems to me that we all have experience in it, even though we form committees, although the committee defines or defines the means. But it is true that the whole responsibility is not the government's, and in this case the complications of professional health ('I don't know what they mean. .). But from this point of view, from the legislature, and even from the Government, it is necessary that acclinement should be developed in order to develop this law, in order that it may become the means, and that it may be carried on in no purely ethical discussions. Again, we have a society of men, who have a very expert and experienced motion, and who have a long and great course, and who are able to obtain great help from them. And we should take advantage of that. They've been here a lot, they've even brought us documents. And it's true... in this, not only here, but in so many countries, and in so many countries, that it has experience and knowledge. In the Basque Country, not only EAE, but also EAE, we have a long course in this, in the several fields where disputes are discussed with dignity of death. We have knowledge there. We have experience, so we should take advantage of the course we've made to give us a really quantum step, so that we can actually develop the law, so that the lives of all of us may finally be worthy to the end. That's what we're doing. Only because the right to die with dignity is a right to live with dignity. And that's what we plan today. And that's why we've brought the precise measurements, as I said before, to give them that push, to keep moving, and to give you a support, and to give you the contact... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the precise thing, as I said before, to give me that little push, to keep on making my steps, and to protect you too. And the champagne, not only for the government, but also for professional health, because it still has its difficulties and its obstacles. And we should do it normally, and for this normality, we must inevitably step, and this material development is absolutely necessary. And, finally, we've been trying and that's how we asked the teams that support the government, to examine our contribution and correction. And, besides, we even examined several proposals, because this is a long way, but at the moment we gave importance to the opening of the process's information, to publicize with it. It was not possible, it was a pity, but, well, we hope from now on to be able to understand and agree in this matter, because it will be necessary, in the end, to adapt this subject to society and to be naturally directed by all of us. And I didn't say, we finally agreed with Podemos together. I'd like to thank her for her kindness and her consent. What we hope to do is to be useful in order to get ahead and take steps together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Podemos, Mrs. Hatredhouse, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u61	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It's been two centuries since the revolution that led to democracy. Egelité, Liberé, fruiterité. This proclaimed the starting-point of the political system which we are now acquainted with. And with this proclamation the democratic principle was established: a perfect division of religion on the one hand, and the regulation established by its hyarchies, which would only affect the private world of the faithful, and on the other hand the civil law, which would have an influence on all. Aipatutako printzipioen eragina, dena her, oraindik gaur bi mende lude pastu baldin badira era, ez da totala. The illustrated principles commented on have not been fully completed today. Without going any further, in Spain, we still have a king today. But not only the head of the state where this anachronism, this lack of historical maturity is manifested, it also happens, for example, when it comes to the freedom of the person to decide on his own life. And here it is true that there are reactionary forces that are committed to protecting society. Until very recently, until very recently, in Spain suffering from a painful and incurable disease was de facto a condemnation of a cruel and painful end, which deprived people of their dignity. Helping them in an act of generosity, in an act of love, helping them to fulfill their will to end their life was a crime. On the 18th of March of this same year, that injustice was finally reversed, and with the determined drive of United Podemos Spain became the fifth country in the world to regulate euthanasia. For we believe that every man ought to have a right to determine his life. And we are pressed to see, in this sense, that though it be ours, though it be ours, the strength of religious lobes arguing about the salvation of suffering in order to compromise this right. Eta honen harira esan behar duet, éta hemen esan beharra daukat, ez dugu ulertzen benetan euskal Gobernuak ekainean hiru euskal apezpikuen egindako bilera. The Basque Government met with the three bishops of the Basque dioceses and agreed to integrate the previous statements and anticipated wills collected by the church into the clinical history of each patient. Sure, the question is, what for? Why is this done? Because Law 7/2002 on Early Wills already contains the vital will. It is a law that is based on respect and promotion of patient autonomy, and this same law describes personal autonomy as a necessary value in the relationships between healthcare professionals and patients. Then why, why, and we do not understand, why is this government encouraging people's will to be intervened by the Catholic Church? When..., well, and if I say it is not for nothing, when the right to dignified death was approved, Mr Munilla, who is the Bishop of Donostia and interlocutor of the Basque Government in this issue to which I am referring, affirmed that this law was the expression of a profound moral crisis in society, generated by – and attention – the crisis of the father figure. Of course, of course, we do not share the conception of the ecclesial hierarchy of the family and less that vision of a father who considers... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...of course, we do not share the conception of the ecclesial hierarchy of the family and less that vision of a father who considers human suffering as a salvific condition. This same ecclesiastical hierarchy is the one that has so many times opposed individual and collective rights that allow us to advance as a society and be freer. And we women know very well, we know very well what this means. The divorce law, like the Book of the Avengers. Even when it is just to acquire rights based on human freedom, it is not easy, and often because the religious rule is strongly opposed. Therefore, as I said, we do not understand too well this intermediary which the Esscal Government has given to the Church for the will of the will. Anyway, let's go... (...) the implementation of this Act, the Euthanasia Act, which was adopted in March this year, is the task of the Basque Government, since the adoption of the Act obliges the autonomous communities to take the necessary measures for the exercise of the right. These are measures of an organisational, budgetary, information and training nature. And for this to happen, we believe that it is important, that a series of steps must be taken. And that is what we wanted to propose through our amendment in the beginning. On the one hand, it seems to us that it is important that a guarantee and evaluation committee be set up to concretely put forward the request, to whom it is addressed, who are the interlocator persons and the forms of communication. Two. We believe that it is important to inform citizens about this new right that they did not know so far and that it will be recognized, and for that it would be important to make an important, broad media campaign. Three. In order to give effect to this right, it is also necessary for local administrations to be involved, so that they can assume responsibility for the dissemination of this right through their own care arrangements, such as social work staff. Four. We also think that it is very important, which is urgent, to train health personnel and to strengthen primary care, precisely to enable a time and a consultation space to guarantee the professionals involved sufficient conditions for good care. Five. In order to prevent this right from becoming an obstacle, we believe that the Basque Government should also develop tools such as guidance forms or information documents that simplify the documentation that professionals should use at the various stages of the process of providing this right. Finally, LORE, the law regulating euthanasia, contains the possibility of conscientious objection in its article 16.1. And it states that administrations must create a register of professionals who exercise conscientious objection in providing help to die. Of course, this objection cannot be based on positions that are discriminatory or defensive, or objections that are based on comfort or money, or rather on assistance. Administrations must have the necessary measures in place to prevent the obstruction of adequate assistance. To that end, we believe that there must be a protocol to ensure that, in the event of an objection, this right to die is guaranteed. All this is a way of foreseeing and regulating, as we believe, that this fundamental right may be effected. And he didn't... but to agree in what place they may put their hands in, or how they may enter into the way of their wills. We believe that it is really necessary that our euscal government should be positively exercised, in order to maintain dignity when it arrives at the last moment of human life. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u63	Thank you, President. Egun on, lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. We have just heard Mrs Gorrotxategi who has already had to bring her ghosts to a debate like this: the King, the Church. And well, it hasn't brought the banks and the big multinationals in, but anyway, in the reply, it brings them here to the debate. Look, Mrs Gorrotxategi, the members who support the government will say, but the government meets with the bishops and other collectives with whom it decides to meet. All right, all right, that's good for us. And if you can help, better. Better, because there are many people who rely a lot on bishops even if you don't think so. There's a lot of people. And it is better for bishops and the Church to collaborate with the Administration than to do so. He has also spent much of his time in this intervention talking about the Church and the bishops when I believe he would have other arguments. Indeed, the compromise amendment they have tabled does not contribute anything. It's clear, it doesn't bring much. But, well, we, of course, the lords of the PNV and the PSOE seem good to us to collaborate with the bishops. We feel good that they continue to do so if that helps people to be well informed and to know what they have, what they can do. We... Logically, it is not a debate to get into the fundamental question of euthanasia, which has had its course and still has its course, because (...) there is a legal (...) journey that is on the table. We ourselves, in our parliamentary group, have different sensitivities. (...) political parties that make up it also have different sensitivities. But, well, let's just stick to the fact that a law has been passed, an organic law that's there. And of course, in that sense, of the formal, my group doesn't... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...different sensitivities. But, well, let's just stick to the fact that a law has been passed, an organic law that's there. And of course, in that sense, of the formality, my group does not share what was raised in Mrs Ubera's motion. Now, it has definitely been a compromise amendment and in the whole amendment tabled by Mrs Gorrotxategi. And it does not do so precisely because, for reasons of form, it is an unnecessary initiative, it does not contribute anything from our point of view. A motion, moreover, has much less force than Organic Law 3/2021, which establishes actions, obligations to the competent administrations, that is an organic law that establishes those obligations and actions. And that's why we don't know very well what the initiative itself meant, I guess... initially, if there was already a legal mandate to act precisely in the areas, precisely the extremes that are reflected in the motion, at the same extremes it is where the organic law had to act because it establishes procedures of action that affect the National Health Service, in this case the Basque Health Service to the Autonomous Communities, and well, that is what had to be done and also according to the professionals, with the experts. I don't know, that's why at first we proposed that... or we thought that, well, that the Basque Government seemed to be moving under the motion, that it was moving in breach of the commission or that it was suspicious of the proponent, in this case of the proponents of... he was suspicious of his possible action on this issue, or he wanted to reinterpret some aspects of the law or to safeguard the actions of the health authorities. Because the issues on which the motions and their motion, Mrs Ubera and the amendment were already covered by the organic law itself. And that's because I had to. And my group also, without going further, asked about the creation of the Euthanasia Guarantee and Evaluation Commission in Euskadi through Decree 145/2021 of 25 May on its composition, we were interested in seeing what was being done, things were already being done on this subject. So it is clear that all these are obligations of the Basque Government in compliance with Law 3/2021, that is, some of us do not like this law, others do, well, but in any case it is a law that is there. The compromise amendment that I have signed, I believe, remains in a general statement with some elements, in addition, from our point of view, of little legal certainty, of little legal certainty, in an issue that requires important guarantees, as it is to urge the collaboration of what is the professional field with proeuthanasia associations. It is not legal security that, it is that we are talking about a question of relevance for the guarantees it demands, that is, the fact, we are going to collaborate with the associations proeuthanasia, because I think it is not legal security, and I say that for what is the Health Administration with all the guarantees it will have to... and with all the law enforcement and health professionals and experts integrated in the Basque Health System. I think that's the fundamental element, the collaboration, well... I do not know, but not as an essential element in the development of this process and of this law, we do not see it, I do not see it, we see it as legal insecurity if that has to mark certain ways of doing the Administration to apply this which has been considered by law a right, that is, we do not agree with that. And furthermore, this is an issue that does not obey or that should not be done through media campaigns, as you claim. The information of these characteristics must be given by experts, it must be given by the health system when such information is requested. That's the fundamentals and that's the reference. You spoke in the amendments, in the amendment of the whole and in the initial motion of obstacles, spoke of obstacles. That's why he said he was suspicious of the performance. Not obstacles, which are... What there has to be is guarantees. To you, to the guarantees of which the law speaks, they call obstacles, because the law says very clearly that guarantees must be established so that the decision to end life takes place with absolute freedom, autonomy, knowledge, protected, therefore, from pressures of all kinds that could come from unfavorable social, economic, family environments, and even from hasty decisions. Well, that, to those issues that move in the area of guarantees, fundamentally legal, normative and also personal guarantees, you call it obstacles. In other words, we certainly did not agree on that. Finally, my group in the light of the matter, we were not of course going to support the motion and we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, because we do understand that, well, it would also be good for the health administration in this case to tell us what it is doing, how it is developing, and I say again that it was a point-by-point question of setting up the Evaluation Committee, has already answered how it was formed and (?) composition, but well, it can send and this is what we asked for, a report to the House that defines and establishes the actions, obligations assumed by the Basque Autonomous Community in the development of Organic Law 3/2021. It's more than just knowing how that process is going, I say again. In some cases it's a process that's open, it still has some... some legal framework in courts. We will see how it ends, but in any case, I understand that the motion you have tabled is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I confess that it is difficult for me to discuss issues such as those raised today because of the implication of a contradiction, that of a party of law such as Vox, to which he does not like the law in force at all, in this case the Law of Euthanasia, and I explain myself. I represent a party that respects the law in force, of course, which does not prevent us from defending options other than those that defend certain legal texts. I mean... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I represent a party that respects the law in force, of course, which does not prevent us from defending options other than those that defend certain legal texts. That is, if Vox achieves sufficient majority in the Congress of Deputies, either alone or in addition to that of other parties, one of the first measures that we are going to promote, of course, will be the repeal of a law that we consider dangerous and the result of a pact committed to making these kinds of issues a sign of identity of the left. In any case, in Vox we are not willing to pave the way for assisted suicide, because we are firm defenders of the vital choice, of the objective and universal value of life; the one that has in itself from the moment of conception to its natural end. No one owns life, not even the person himself. In this is the dignity of the person, the foundation of the social order, as reflected in article 10 of our Constitution. Interestingly forgotten by the promoters of this law. The value of life does not give it any agreement, neither politicians nor oneself, is an objective value that recognizes our own order, and considering it in another way could have terrible consequences such as those that will have to decide who has the dignity to live and who does not. In this sense, I believe that linking dignity to quality of life is extremely dangerous. Whoever defends this association seems to defend that when well-being falls, life loses its dignity. They do so when they use terms like death or dignified life. Without stopping at the risk of considering certain patients as people with unworthy lives, not likely to be beneficiaries of all existing resources, health and social, to alleviate their pain and suffering. In Vox's view, the human being must never be considered a burden, as a subject in which unjustified amounts of money are invested. The common good requires us all to make every effort to alleviate the suffering of the sick, investing decisively in palliative care, strongly supporting the family, the environment in which the sick find more protection, affection and calm. Having said that, and recognizing that this is a long way to go, we consider it urgent and essential to strengthen our palliative care system in order to minimize the suffering of people whether or not they are in the last stage of their lives. In connection with this issue, I consider it essential to place radar in these administrations for each and every person suffering from serious diseases that lead to serious complications for the development of a normalized life. Identify them and keep them located for close and close follow-up of each case. Step forward to allocate to each of these people all the resources they need to alleviate their pain and suffering, including that of their families and their nearest environments. There is another issue to be addressed in debates as sensitive as the one that is currently taking place, and it is the right of everyone to conscientious objection, especially those health professionals who could be expected to make decisions against their most intimate beliefs. Just as administrations and certain political parties are guaranteeing the rights of those who wish to put an end to their suffering, they should demonstrate a great sensitivity towards all that violent legislation, and could force action against their ethical, moral and religious principles. I am aware that this is not the majority position in this House, but I trust that mine and my party will be equally respected; as we respect other options, even if we do not recognize them as our own, and even if they are contrary to our principles and values. I think this kind of law requires it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u66	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Ekain Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u67	Thank you, Madam President. When I studied Philosophy of Law in my fifth career, I remember that when we came to the functions of law, we devoted an entire class to law as a factor of social change. And it's pretty easy to understand. In democracy the laws are passed through the action of legislators, parliaments like this, in which we are here, parliamentarians and parliamentarians who have been freely elected by citizens, that is, by society. And certain laws can be seen as a factor of social change insofar as, by the matter they legislate, they contribute to deepening a progressive awareness of new and legitimate needs that society has. And to me, they will allow me, but as a socialist I am proud of that progressive majority that through laws is giving answers to the needs of citizens. Yes, but it is also building a more just, fairer, more egalitarian society, in short, more dignified. Because, thus, with the law of euthanasia, we have advanced in dignity. It seems terrible to me when certain groups on the right and on the extreme right have intended to counter the right to life and the right to die with dignity, as if they were facing each other. And that is not the case, because the law of euthanasia is based on the necessary compatibility between basic principles and rights recognized in the Constitution, such as the fundamental rights to life, physical and moral integrity, yes, but also personal dignity, freedom, autonomy of will and privacy. Hey, you can't play with the pain. The law of euthanasia regulates the individual, subjective, right of persons who, without being in a process of imminent death, suffer a serious, chronic or invalidating disease that causes unbearable suffering, and decide to seek and receive help to die in advance. Socialists present in the Congress of Deputies the proposal for a law regulating euthanasia because we believe that it is a right of people to put an end to suffering with freedom and autonomy, to preserve their integrity and dignity and not to force them to live in bad conditions. A bill that found many allies. Simply because the need to regulate euthanasia is shared by an overwhelming social majority of our country. And this reflection is also shared by a very large majority of this Basque Parliament, which, like us Socialists, are happy to finally have a law which regulates a new right with a very broad social consensus, and which allows a dignified life to end with dignity as well. A law for the assumption that a person without the possibility of healing, and in specific circumstances, can combine the right to life, the right to liberty... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...significantly. A law for the assumption that a person without the possibility of healing, and in specific circumstances, can combine the right to life, the right to liberty, and the autonomy of the person. Because the right to life does not entail the duty or obligation to keep it at any price, much less, going beyond the will of each person. And since June 25, this law is a reality. It is a new acquired right for citizenship. And they have no doubt that in its implementation and development, this Basque Government, of which we are also socialists, is and will continue to be an ally. I say this because the Department of Health was already in writing on 27 April in favour of decriminalization and regulation of euthanasia that has established Law 3/2021. And he called it a very guarantor, both in relation to the right of citizenship to obtain medical aid to die, and in relation to the aspects of clinical and legal security of patients and professionals. And since it could not be otherwise, from that very first moment on it has been put to work in order to be able to carry out the necessary actions in order to be able to give effect to this law in Euskadi. We are awaiting a date for the counsellor to explain the deployment of this law to the Health Commission; she requested it on 29 September. And look, it would have been wise to wait for that appearance and so have updated and first hand the information, before substantiating this motion that, on the other hand, they registered on April 20, and we believe it may be quite outdated already. But, despite the fact that the appearance did not take place, we do have enough information about the deployment of the law in Euskadi. We have it thanks to the answers we have received to written questions and requests for information. And also based on the information that any citizen can access looking for "Euskadi euthanasia" in any Internet search engine, and meeting with a website specific to the Department and Osakidetza, establishing precisely the resolution of the doubts that this law can generate. As a result, we know that the Euthanasia Guarantee and Evaluation Commission has been established in Euskadi since 8 June, as has been said; that educational information has been raised and published on the pages of the Department of Health and Osakidetza to ensure compliance with the Euthanasia Act. By the way, these pages also point to the virtuality of expressing the request for euthanasia in the Register of Early Wills, and facilitate its electronic processing; I say this because it comes from the amendment that had been put forward by Podemos. We also know that the Register of Conscientious Objectors is created, or that, in the formative sphere, with the support of the care ethics committees, information on the law is provided to health personnel and to the Professional Colleges of Medicine and Nursing, from the technical, ethical and legal points of view. And that changes in the electronic medical history have also been addressed, to ensure the confidentiality of records or the creation of new forms, etc., etc. In other words, we know that the Basque Government is developing the law as the law itself provides for the autonomous communities to do. And we also know that it is doing so on the network, and within the parameters established with the Ministry of Health, which is not little. And we know, moreover, that it is producing very good results, as has been acknowledged by – even – the association itself Right to Die Dignity, that last October 7th, in a medium of communication, was very positive that in three months eight applications have been registered in Euskadi, and that all those who meet the requirements that the law provides have been able to fulfill their wish. Hence our amendment. We are talking about a law that has not been in force for four months, which establishes in the law itself what the autonomous communities have to do. We know that the Basque Government has been proactive in doing so. And we know that the associations themselves value the law very positively, and that in three months we have been able to ensure that all those who meet the requirements of the law have been able to exercise their right. And that is why, rather than lose ourselves in other considerations, it seems to us more appropriate to require the Basque Government to comply with and guarantee at all times the obligations of its competence to ensure the proper exercise of the right of euthanasia. Because, guaranteeing this right, Euskadi is also more worthy today. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u68	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u69	Thank you, ma'am. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning, everyone. Oso garrantzitsua da niretzat euthanasiaren Legaren betetzeari buruzko eztabaida Honetan part hartzea. Aspalditik izan had to be interested; zehazki, 1994ko azararen 1etik, due 27 strike dja. And I want to intervene in this debate with the greatest degree of responsibility. That is why I have separated my argument into two parts: on the one hand, my belief in what we are doing and that what we are doing is good for our society; on the other hand, the requirement to do it, and to do it right. My belief that what we're doing is good. Said the Sagardui Sailburu... By the way, he is in Seville, receiving an award for the management of Osakidetza in the hospital field. Well, zorionak, Osakidetza. He said that the Sailburu said, in response to your inquiry, Mrs Ubera, that we and our party believe in this right that this law contains. We therefore participate in the creation of the rule and vote in favour of its adoption. We believe that it is a necessary right, aimed at people who go through this difficult situation, so that they do not have to go through legal suffering as well. I share those reasons. And I have another reason, in the form of personal experience, as many of those who are here today and many other people, which impacted me directly on that 1 November 1994 that I was talking about before. And today I want to talk about this too, because human drama was then joined, in a cruel way, also the dark shadow... a dark shadow: the penal ghost. Because this law... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...because human drama was then joined, in a cruel way, also by the dark shadow... a dark astonishment: the penal ghost. Because this organic law, on which we are debating today, has a close relationship with another organic law, 10/1995. Furthermore, Mrs Gorrotxategi, with other rules, of course, with other rules. But with this organic law it has a close relationship, a rule better known as the Penal Code, a code that has been reformed by the law of euthanasia. I propose you do an exercise: go to the Criminal Code and read its article 143. It refers to those who induce or collaborate in the suicide of a person, and establishes the corresponding prison sentences. If you read points 1, 2, 3 and 4, you will realize that euthanasia is criminalized, with the severity of this, by deprivation of liberty for two to 10 years. If we go to the last point of the article, the 5, which has been introduced by the law of euthanasia, you will see that it does not incur criminal responsibility who causes or actively cooperates in the death of another person, complying with the requirements of the Organic Regulatory Law of Euthanasia. Points 1, 2, 3 and 4 have been in force until only four months ago, for 27 years. And before, even worse, there was no point 4. Surely you can imagine, that we can imagine the pain and double condemnation of having to advise and accompany a person with that Penal Code. I'm sure we can imagine the suffering of the person who's been next to the person who suffered from a terminal illness, and wanted to end his life. Let's go back to today. Let's go back to reality with point 5. This new paragraph 5 is therefore a blank penal provision, the application of which by the courts and tribunals must be supplemented by the requirements of the new organic law. That is why it is so important to know this law in depth and to develop it properly. I believe in the relative goodness of the laws. This is a phrase that I like very much, which was said in the legal world of the nineteenth century. And they considered it a constant truth that the laws had to accommodate the circumstances to constitute their relative goodness. I believe that the legal system today has a little more kindness relative to this law. After belief, duty to do. The law of euthanasia, according to the competence of Euskadi in the field of health, obliges our community, obliges the Basque Government to take a series of actions that guarantee its compliance. In this regard, Mrs Ubera, in response to her question at the plenary session on 16 April, the Sailburu replied to her. And I would highlight three elements from that answer. The first, the commitment to the law, which I have already talked about. The second, the list of actions, of obligations assumed by the Basque Government. The Sailburu gives a very detailed listing. They wouldn't talk so much about a listing, but a series of blocks, blocks that have a development. And I won't remember them. A series of very important blocks, even those that may seem less important to us, such as the administrative processing block, we see that, in addition to important work, it has a high level of difficulty. And I'm not talking about bureaucratic hindrances. They are essential elements in a tool of these characteristics. And a third of that reply, which would refer to the current state, referring to April, the current state of compliance, referring to April, two months before the law came into force. And we were told by the Sailburu: "All this is designed, and the route is established, with a specific working group that has been addressing this task since the adoption of the law." We are in the process of implementing this law and those who want to make use of this right and who can do so properly accompanied by professionals from our health service. That is, more than two months before the law came into force, this Government had everything planned and organized. Obviously, Mrs Ubera, I am not going to tell you how you have to use the tools of control and impulse to the government that you have at your disposal. It is your responsibility that prerogative. But in a debate like this I see myself in the need to analyse their initiatives, the use of those initiatives. On 12 April, he recorded this inquiry and, fundamentally, he asked what steps the Department of Health was going to take. The question is, what steps are you going to take? The Sailburu answers, as I mentioned earlier, in relation to these three elements. But, by summarizing the summary, what this Government is saying is that it is going to take every and every step necessary to guarantee the right. But he also tells him that many of them have already given them during the previous 18 months. His interpellation seemed a little forced to me. But I thought, "Well, you'll stay here after this answer." Because what I had made clear was that, in this regard, the Government was giving beyond the answer you asked for. However, on 20 April, you presented a motion for an inquiry. And that control element makes it an impulse element. I think it is difficult to push something that is going, and I have already told you, especially Mr Hernández, who is not, it is difficult to push something that is going faster than anyone who wants to push it. I felt a little bold about this impulse approach. And, moreover, in the form in a tremendously worded in detail. I honestly do not see myself in a position to tell medical, care, administrative and management teams how they should do so in detail their work. That's different from the control function. However, curiously, you do not bring the motion to debate, so I am convinced that perhaps you have turned around and consider it inappropriate to use that impulse tool... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... to debate the motion, so I am convinced that perhaps it has turned around and considers it inappropriate to use that impulse tool. It maintains this initiative in lethargy, information is coming to us, for example, the (?) Public Health Department, which has been commented here as well. We are seeing that issues are being addressed and the initiative is still in lethargy. On 29 September, the Sailburu, the Department of Health, requested an appearance to inform Parliament. I think, I think, it no longer makes sense to activate the initiative before we know the update, as Mr Rico said, of everything they are going to bring us. And I'm wrong again. You activate the initiative and we are in this debate. Nor do you reproach, Mrs Ubera, in this regard, if there is one that was not necessary to use this strange function of impulse, because you know that this Government from the very first moment, after the adoption of the law, showed its willingness and conviction to work on its implementation, to do so with guarantees and security and to give the best response to all those who, being at the end of their lives, want to die with dignity. That is, and not another, the purpose of this Government: to accompany all these people and assure them of a dignified life and death. This Government has complied with the requirements of the law since conviction. The department has been working for many months to give that legal and safe response to a terrible situation for many sick people and their families. And that's how he's gonna keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u70	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. After the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u71	Mr. Akianz, I'll begin to answer you. I said the first round, I won't say that I didn't do anything, because it just took a few steps. He's got Berme and the Obligation Committee, he's making nominations. But it is true also that he will not do all that is in his power. We had the DMD Society here, and he proposed several measures. It's not enough. It's not enough. That's not enough to say. It is necessary to establish policy for the execution of the law, and to establish measures. And we've been waiting, waiting for the professionals, and from the community as many, well, they were there at the Board of Health, and we've been assigned a number of different measurements. Seeing that these measurements are not coming in, we thought it was only right to turn the motion on and bring it in so that we could establish them. And unfortunately, we could see that up to this time it was a bit of a generality, right? The development of the law has been made, the gradual development, a decree has been accepted, a decree has been accepted, but to this point it is necessary to step further. And just because they're asking us to do it, and because they insist on us, and because DMD insists on us, on the one hand, that need of information, isn't it? We find that the people have a right to explain what this right is to be opened, the necessity of making a campaign, and of doing so at first. Besides, you're all experts in advertising, campaigning, doing communal blows, so come on, keep doing it. And on the other hand, the professionals insisted that even the members of the Berme and the Oblucation Committee are indispensable in this formation. And we didn't say what these professionals are supposed to do, but what we've asked is to structure and determine what mission these professionals must have. And that's not for us, that's for the Medical Department. Just like that. That's what we brought. And we'll be glad to hear the health department come, but we think the measures we've brought today are necessary, and we'll continue to push it that way. The popular party told us that it was only a declaration of our motion, a mere and general expression. On the other hand, EAJ would tell us that we were entering the very precise measures to be enumerated. What we've just tried is to make the professionals and the societies work out for themselves. Just like that. Then Mr. Barrio told us that our proposal doesn't contribute anything. Mr. Hombre, Mr Barri, if you want to develop the law, our proposal demands, if you don't want to develop the law, our proposal does nothing. But the question is, Mr. Barri, whether Populous party is willing to guarantee the right to ask the citizens to help us die. That's the question. You'll have to answer it yourself. Just like that. We often talk about worthy lives, and it is everyone's proclamation that we want worthy lives. But without deserving death life is unworthy of life. And to be worthy of life, and worthy of death, we have a right to determine them to men, to determine about our lives. And this is not a right that we only have at the beginning or in the middle of life, but a right to the end of life. And this is what is to be grafted in, and, unfortunately, this law does not entirely include it. It's a terrible step we've said, all of us waiting for years, a lot of people have worked, and there's been a lot of suffering, unfortunately, until we got this law. But this right of deciding is still under the tutelage of professional health. And yet there must still be steps. But it is true that it is a quantum step, that this law was admitted, but now it has to be fulfilled. And for that, we need precise measures and measures. And it's not enough to activate a decree or commissions... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but now it is fulfilled, it must be fulfilled. And for that, we need precise measures and measures. And it's not enough to activate a decree or commissions, but we really have to normalize that right, we have to naturalize it, and we have to break all the tiles around death, right? With naturalness and normalness. And that's why, among other things, we've brought our proposal today. And above all, I want to emphasise two ideas, which the professionals and the community themselves insisted on. One, the need for information to spread among the people, the need to explain. And encourage, Mr. Urkullu, to campaign with this. And the other, the formation. I know that before July the Health Department had formed an online formation among the professionals, but it is not enough to do well-lined, but it must be organized in order to actually strengthen these teams, and do the work properly. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u73	Thank you, ma'am, again. Mr. Barrio, I'll start with you. Just talking about each other's obsessions. You see, he's just missed telling me, telling me, that we're advocating suicide. And you know perfectly well that's not the case. I think Mr. Rico has explained it perfectly. It is not a question of encouraging anyone to commit suicide, or much less, but of fulfilling a fundamental right. I told him that, many times, laws are instruments, they are factors of change. That's true, but in this case, it's not even that. In this case, and I believe that I have also said this at some point, in this case, this law comes to accompany the legal order to the majority will of society. I mean, we're not even, we're not even in those. Mr Aiartza has also commented on this. Now, the important thing is the proper development of this law. Correct development of this law, indeed. And on the thread of all this, of course, they are raised and then this motion is unnecessary. I'm not counting this motion. Well, I'd like to thank Mrs. Ubera that she brought this discussion here, because she gave us the opportunity to put so many accounts on the table about the development of this law. And it seems to me, therefore, that... and I would say both to Mr. Rico and Mr. Aiartza, to stay only in the fulfilment of the obligations in which the Government must comply with the obligations established by law, is to stay a little short, because it does not allow us to put on the table certain issues that are what I have wanted to do here today. And in this sense, already by closing the circle, of course, it is true, and Mr Barrio said, the Basque Government has all the right of the world to meet with the bishops. Of course I do, why not? The question is when he meets with bishops to make decisions that may interfere with the correct execution of a fundamental right. In the correct execution, which Mr Aiartza said, of a law which seeks to materialize a fundamental right. And in this case, it may become more meaningful than the express mention of the Right to Die Dignity Association might think. That I know that the Basque Government has met with this association, but we would have to see what it is, how its demands have been met. Because I believe, and this is part, only part, there are many more things, but this is part of the debate that I wanted to put, in this broad debate, I wanted to put on the table. The question is where we focus when we talk about developing the Law of Euthanasia: do we put it in bishops or put it in law to die dignifiedly? I think the difference is substantial. And beyond trusting that the work of the Government will be good or bad in the implementation of this law, I believe that focusing on the right place is a very important issue, which is precisely what I wanted to talk about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos, Mr. Barri, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u75	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat, briefly. The focus will have to be on the law. Neither in the bishops nor in... In the law, and in the regulation and in how a law develops. I think it's as easy as all that. I say again, the initiative you are presenting is unnecessary. You no longer tell me that I was going to tell you, and I have not said, about the advocacy of terrorism, much less. Apologizing for suicide, much less. I have not talked about the substantive issues. I say it again, and now I'm going to explain why. You have been the one who, taking advantage of the theme of euthanasia, has spoken of the King and the Bishops. You have spoken, that is, on a question that you have made. So don't tell me anything, I respect your position very much, but in that sense it has been shocking to me and that is why I have said it. The position of my group is well known. The People's Party voted against the Euthanasia Act, and Citizens voted in favour. And that's what happens. The People's Party also filed an appeal with the Constitutional Courts, and it is there. And in that sense, what we do is respect everything. And right now, what we respect is the law, that is, the approved law. And then, and that's where we focus. I don't know what will happen in the future of the legal, constitutional process. But right now, there's a law. A law is developing, so the Government has told us, because we too have checked it, because we have asked questions. And in that sense, I say again, the initiative that you present does not contribute anything, because developing the law is an obligation of the Basque Health Service. And you talk about some kind of collaboration with private entities, pro euthanasia or a... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... the law is an obligation of the Basque Health Service. And you are talking about a kind of collaboration with private entities proeuthanasia or an information campaign. It's other things. The fundamental thing is, I say, to comply with the law, the articles of the law. And, in that sense, that's where I meant. And above all, to what you have called obstacles, or that mistrust that you maintain in the Government's actions, we have wanted to call guarantees. Guarantees, as the law says. Guarantees that procedures are established and that everything is done accordingly according to what the Statement of Reasons for this law tells us. And that is the fundamental element. That is why, in other words, the initiative that you are presenting is unnecessary, which I assume will then be to be there, to get a little head on this issue, but it does not contribute anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Myst, Mrs Martínnez, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u77	What I do want to say is that I have been curious that Mrs Gorrotxategi is talking about the right of the Association to die with dignity, but not the bishops. What I want to tell you and move you is that all sensitivities must be taken into account, Mrs Gorrotxategi. If we talk to the Right to Die Association, we will also have to talk to the Right to Live Association. I think we have to take all this into account. On the other hand, that the Basque Government meets with the three bishops I believe is fundamental, since they represent a large part of the population. If we take into account that the majority of the population, both Basque and Spanish, is Catholic, I think they represent a large percentage of the population. I think it would be fundamental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u78	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, regarding the social change factor, accompaniment, although it is a philosophical discussion. But, look, I say that it is a factor of social change by pragmatism, for something that taught us the Socialists Ramon Rubial a long time ago, and that is that the revolution is done in the Official Gazette. I don't believe it until I see the law. And the law is the real factor of social change. It is true, and I have said this in my speech, as you have pointed out, that we have a very broad sense of Spanish society and Basque society in this law. Of course. But the fact that we already have that law makes that great social spectrum at last because it has the instrument to be able to develop that right and to achieve that right. We are not left alone with the law and strict compliance or the minimum essential. That's not true. I believe that it must be recognized that the Basque Government has been proactive in supporting this law, even making a public position in favour of it when it was not a reality. And that, moreover, the mechanisms have been adopted internally within Euskadi before even legally it was necessary to do so in order to have everything planned. And it's had a good result. And, in addition, something, Mrs Gorrotxategi, about which I am glad and I think you too. I repeat, in line with the parameters established by the Ministry of Health, which is not small. I wish other autonomous communities, right?, also work in those parameters. On the subject of the dioceses, the bishops. I don't approach it that way. Because he's not cooperating with the bishops much less. In that case, I'd have enough to say if I did. It is collaborating with citizens who profess a certain faith, point. And this law that we have passed you, we and the vast majority of this House have something very clear, and that is that this is a right, not an obligation. And that there are people who ideologically will decide not to exercise it. Well, in the same way that the possibility of exercising it is established, it is also necessary to protect citizens who do not want to exercise it in the same way. And you have to see it with a certain naturalness. And well, this happens in countries, as in ours, where you can also marry one for the Church, right?, with full effect. Well, you still have to focus on that tradition. Not that he's collaborating with the bishops. I'll tell him no. With regard to something that both Mrs Ubera and Mrs Gorrotxategi have maintained. I don't think... Well, if that's the problem, look at a fantastic information campaign. If that's the only problem to do an information campaign, then fantastic. But, look, I think it's not even problematic. Because, in addition, I have told you, there is a website on which you can access it. But also it is not searched, it is that if you put "Euskadi euthanasia" in any search engine, it takes you directly to those websites of Osakidetza and the Department of Health where all doubts are solved, in which it even takes you to the Register of Early Wills. He's very focused. And, in addition, we know which audience is the target, forgive me, of the citizenship that claims these situations. And that information comes at the time it has to come too. Besides, I think we've all learned that there is a law of euthanasia in Spain, because we've all seen it everywhere. And I think that's not the problem. The problem, and I come back with something that I said to you at the beginning, and I am already going with the PP and Vox, is what can happen in other autonomous communities where precisely forces that have voted against this law, that have even appealed to the Constitutional Court, asking, in the case of Vox, the precautionary measure, rejected by the Constitutional Court, that it cannot be implemented. Mr Barrio said that in the last speech, which I was going to point out to him in the first one, there are two sensitivities. Man, two sensitivities and an appeal to the Constitutional Court against the law, which already, in addition to sensitivities, produces some Scotsman. Well, honestly, I think with this law we're all more worthy. With this law we have achieved, I said at first, that a dignified life can also end dignifiedly. And I believe, and I will repeat, that this is a reason for pride. I, as a socialist, as a member of the Socialist Party, am deeply proud of this. And again, as members of the Basque Government, I say to you, there is no doubt that we too, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, are making this government an ally for the implementation of this law, because we believe it, because we defend it, simple and... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... we, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, make this government an ally for the implementation of this law, because we believe it, because we defend it, simply and plainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u81	Thank you, ma'am. Three issues I wanted to highlight and clarify. A question of almost method or procedure. Mrs Gorrotxategi also mentioned whether this initiative is necessary or unnecessary, and so on. See, there is one question, Mrs Ubera herself told us: "Measures have been taken, measures have been taken, not all measures that could have been taken..." She acknowledged that measures had been taken. Let's see, in order to perform an impulse function, which was what I wanted to move, in order to perform an impulse function, one needs to know what the situation is of what we want to push. So basically, what we were or the idea that we were moving is that, at this moment, a few days before a large volume of information on the issue comes to us, it seems to us that this is not the interesting time to use this tool, to use an impulse tool. And then we were somewhat criticized that we remained in compliance or in the strict approach of the law, as reflected in the article or what the law establishes as obligations that must be fulfilled in order to exercise it, in this case, the autonomous communities, as reflected in the object of the law, in article 1. No, no. We, in line with what I have explained to you now, say, "Man, we should wait." Since we do not know that reality in detail, we need all that information. Let's get back to that situation. We say that this is done or we urge the Government to do so, that we do what we clearly need to do, which, on the other hand, we already know is being done. Or, rather, that it has been done, that it has already been done, that it would be the second point of my reflection, because on the eve of the entry into force of the law, the department itself reports that it has fulfilled all the requirements established by the norm in order to be able to offer this benefit to any person who requests it, who requests it. Offer it to anyone who requests it. I note, because we are not faced with an obligation. We are faced with a right, a possibility, to die and live with dignity, which you have also said. And, thirdly, something also, in my opinion, important. And now what or work from this moment on? And I find it very interesting a reflection that in a magazine of the association to which you yourself referred, you told us, and it is an interview with a person who is a member of the Federal Commission for Control and Evaluation in Belgium, 20 years of experience in this matter, with a law in force in 2000, and also president of the Association for a Dignity Death in Belgium. And she said, the interview holder, "Start the background work," which is where we have to apply ourselves. And he says, which I find very interesting, an evolution, speaking of his case, an evolution that was made, to some extent, naturally. Based on what? In that the new situations that we have known, once the law has been implemented, have always emerged from the basis, that is, from the patients' demand. In this regard, this Government, I am sure you will continue to work to ensure that this law responds to the demands of society. We will be, will be, to take care of people who want to live to the end, offering quality palliative care. And we will be, they will be, to help those who do not want to continue suffering, complying with all the guarantees and with the procedure stipulated by the law. We will defend, defend, a dignified life and a dignified death as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Edemos-Nozer has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters, 26; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u83	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 6; the contrary,66; Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u84	Not accepted. We'll vote for the total misitiad corrections. You can vote next. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 1,66; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u85	Not accepted. Finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. You can vote. [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u86	Not accepted. Finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 73; votes given, 73; supporters 40; opponents, 33; Abstations, 0; white; 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-21.u87	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-nine.
