ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. First point in theme list: "Equanomy, Ogage, and Preservation of the Office, which was made on the bill of law-proposing the 5th of February 5th of the People's Euskal Court, and changing the Civil Court of Accounts by 1/1988. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? - Isn't it? So, we're going to the team shift. Miss Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u1	Thank you, Madam President, good morning to you all. After examining the opinion put to the vote, we deeply regret that the pact reached by PNV, PSE and PP-Citizens does not solve any of the problems in the Basque Court of Auditors which were, moreover, subject to urgent change after the disgrace of the Bilbao case. Thus, the independence and objective impartiality that they shouted out at that court, given its current regulatory rule will remain unsecured thanks to the partisan interests and power games of the old policy that you represent. They have hardly reached an agreement to strengthen the majority with which the members of the court are elected or some other minor case of abstention or refusal, but they have not ensured the independence of the body that is still controlled directly by this Parliament, without even establishing a minimum period of lack to avoid the revolving doors, which are, in addition, their old policy. So, we already know that the deputies... dintaren ambera) [[Start of tape 2]] ... without even establishing a minimum period of lack to avoid the rotating doors, which are, moreover, their old policy. So we already know that Members of this Parliament can one day leave here to be placed the next day in an institution, in addition to being dependent on it, ensuring a future at the expense of the effort and pocket of all Basques. And I don't look at anyone, gentlemen of the PNV. We hope that Mr. José Luis Bilbao has made good money with all of us. Without prejudice to all of the above, and although we feel that all of you exist to change anything, we are not at all surprised by this pact. It is well known the distribution of posts and their tastes by the client networks of both PP and PSOE, in order to control the institutions of the State, in order to divert, silence or influence decisions that could affect them. How's the negotiation going to put your friends at the head of the General Council of the Judiciary? Does the People's Party intend to continue to claudicate before the party, neither socialist nor worker nor Spanish, and the Basque Nationalist Party, instead of taking a step forward in defending the interests of all Basques and giving up corruption once and for all? We'll have to take care of each other. Only Vox defends the independence of the institutions and put an end to the political burden that you all represent. By the way, they insist on taking advantage of the reform, so necessary for the above-mentioned Court, to contaminate with its gender ideology and its agenda progresses the institution itself. Thus, they pose a simple and shameful balanced distribution of positions between men and women looking only at the gender of the candidate and not at his or her capacity and merit. I'm asking you a question. Would this balanced distribution, for example, of 50%, since you speak only of balance and not of equity, not of ensuring that there are men members of the Court just because they are men? I'll explain myself. If there were a total of seven members of the Tribunal in the event that the seven members of the Tribunal were the best female candidates, you would expel three or four women to introduce men. Having said that, it is normal that those who occupy these candidatures, whether male or female, should be the best qualified. Having said that, the impartiality of the Basque Court of Auditors is essential if the money of all Basques is not to be squandered. And this need has again been forgotten. Of the seven posts of the Tribunal, five for PNV and PSOE – nothing strange – one for the PP. What price have you paid to get that job? I say this to you: to conform to the interests of the parties that support the Government. And you know that it is not favorable for Basque citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u2	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, the committee's opinion is before the plenary of this House, after the presentation has been made, on the proposal for a law amending the Regulatory Law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, Law 1/1988. We've been working with this law for a year. Finally, I am pleased to say that we have reached an agreement, in this case, with the groups of the Government to make amendments, to reforms of the Court which we believe were absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, an advanced society, a critical and transparent society, needs monitoring bodies to ensure the accountability of the public authorities. In this sense, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, two proposals were presented to this Parliament by parliamentary groups, two proposals to reform the Basque Court of Public Accounts Act. No other group did. It was two. One was made by the EH Bildu group, which presented a reform proposal that included... It was only a paragraph in which it said that the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts had to be elected in accordance with the proportionality, the weight each political group had in Parliament. We, our group, the PP-Citizens group, presented another more extensive text that modified a series of articles of the current law. In that amendment, in that proposal which we included, a number of proposals were made for the modernization, particularly of this discreet institution, but which is important in our system. After a year of work in the paper and having heard a number of experts, the opinion submitted today for the consideration of your ladies and gentlemen was the result of the agreement, the consensus with the groups of the Government and also after accepting interesting contributions, although it seems that this group has presented a particular vote, but interesting contributions from the Elkarrekin Podemos group. For a year, ladies and gentlemen, we've been listening to experts. Many of them had nothing at all to do with what the Court of Auditors was, but they were experts in the field of, for example, policies and other institutions for the prevention of corruption. This, of course, I believe, has helped to enrich all the contributions that have been made to this opinion, to this proposal which is now being put forward. It is a pity that the Joint Group, the parliamentary group represented by Mrs Amaia Grisaleño, did not participate in the committee's debates or in the presentation. Which, without a doubt, I also believe would have enriched because the final result of this product, which, I insist, has been, has been and is, globally positive. First, what agreements have been reached and, therefore, what are the changes, what are the reforms that include the proposed law that is ultimately submitted to all of you today? First, an increase in transparency; secondly, an increase in the independence of advisers and their suitability; and thirdly, an increase in the impartiality of the body. First, an increase in transparency. A number of measures have been included to require the Court to have a legal obligation to publish a number of relevant information on the transparency page. The Court is even ordered to develop a regulatory party, which also included a sanctioning party if any body also refused to participate or cooperate with it. Secondly, a number of measures have also been developed to ensure the independence and suitability of advisers. This is perhaps the most important contribution and perhaps the most difficult one to agree on. It goes from the need to choose the terna or the group of councillors by absolute majority to have to do so, from now on, by a three-fifth majority, which I believe is a great guarantee that parliamentary groups will have the obligation to propose people really suitable, really capable, really independent to occupy... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... ensures, to a large extent, that parliamentary groups have an obligation to propose people who are really fit, really capable, really independent to occupy and carry out these activities. The need for prior experience in matters relating to the Court, the proceedings of the Court of Auditors itself, is also increasing until the age of 12; and in the case of the impartiality of the body, i.e. the cases of abstention and refusal of advisers are codified in the law itself, including a fairly wide range of incompatibilities that were not previously included. And, therefore, a number of situations are included in which, by conflict of interest, the adviser, the adviser concerned in this case, would have to refrain from participating in the matter affecting him. Second, self-criticism. What's missing to include? What would we have liked, would our group have liked to include? As a man, logically, the result of the consensus agreement, our group has six seats in this House of 75; and logically, we have had to negotiate with the groups representing the Government and forming the absolute majority. But, well, we have, let's say, dialogued for a year in a very fruitful way and we have persuaded, we have succeeded in persuading. And I am also grateful for the cooperation and willingness of the spokespersons of the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group to at least reach an essential agreement. One of them was the increase to most of the three fifths. What have we missed, in our opinion? We'd like to have gone a little further. We would have liked to have made the Basque Court of Public Accounts the model to follow. In the model to be followed by being the most advanced of all the structures and all the control bodies that exist both in Spain and in Europe. What was not possible to include that we would have liked? For example, the two-year deficiency period also referred to earlier, or even a year, before persons who have exercised public office become members of the Tribunal. The truth is that we will be the only body, together with the Balearic Islands, that has not yet included this situation, that has not yet included this exception or this ineligibility. Secondly, we would also have liked to have included, for example, the control of Parliament itself. The control of Parliament itself of... not, of course, not of the accounts approved by Parliament as budgets, but of the internal accounts, which is the operation, of the more than 30 million euros, which, if I may recall, is the budget of this body, of this Parliament. There are already autonomous communities in Spain that have included this possibility; I think there is Castile and León, Valencia, etc. In any case, a decision by the Bureau could save this absence, which has, among other issues, the law. In any case, finally, the assessment is that this is a positive agreement, it is an agreement that I believe produces a fairly broad and reasonable consensus. Even, I insist, amendments have been accepted which the group has proposed, and in addition to great interest, which the Elkarrekin Podemos group has proposed. And I believe that although it is obviously a reform that has limitations and that we would have liked to go further, it is a reform that is a big step forward and that is a step in the right direction. As I say, it is a pity that the Joint Group did not participate. But I believe that, in any case, the final balance of the passage of this law will be a court that will necessarily have to include people, councillors, more fit, more capable, more independent and that, in the end, I hope and wish that it will be so, they will exercise their work with the greatest of independences for the benefit of Basque society, which is to whom we all have to serve. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Left-Totate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors and counselors. The first function of the Court of Auditors is to monitor the financial and economic activity of the public sector in order to check whether it respects the principles of legality, efficiency and economy. The Basque Court of Public Accounts must exercise external control of the Administration. Its jurisdictional function is the prosecution of the liability of those responsible for managing the assets and public effects. But, so that you can perform your function properly, first of all, it is up to us to regulate it. However, our parliamentary group believes that the amendment of the Basque Court of Public Accounts Act, which we are discussing today, does not, let us say, meet the parameters that our parliamentary group would have liked, and therefore we cannot support it. We believe that a historic opportunity has been missed so that, in fact, as Mr Gordillo said, we would have demonstrated a certain avant-garde spirit in the matter. We think the subject deserved it. With this modification of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, we would have to do an exercise to retreat to 2015, when the then deputy general of Bizkaia, José Luis Bilbao, was elected president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, a position he continues to hold today. The truth is that, for our parliamentary group, the transparency and credibility of our institutions is fundamental. And when this was the case, there was a lot of doubt about the Basque Court of Public Accounts. The truth is that, today, with this amendment, this circumstance can be repeated again; and therefore, it seems to us that it is a clear deficiency in the processing of this amendment. And, I say again, therefore, we cannot support it. And one of the elements that could have prevented it from being so, would have been the element of deficiency, which, as has also been said here, is not an exceptional thing, but that practically in all the autonomous communities, today, is already regulated. The figure of the refusal and the abstention, which has already been mentioned by Mr Gordillo, which is to be approved, is true, with this amendment, a step forward. But, in our opinion, the only evidence is that it was right to want to establish by law a period of deficiency, because basically it is a mechanism that replaces the deficiency by reason of implicitly recognizing that it was necessary that some formulas were necessary to avoid, in this case, what we think was quite irregular or abnormal, that was that José Luis Bilbao was president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. But it seems to us insufficient. It seems to us that the rebuttal and the... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. But it seems to us insufficient. It seems to us that the refusal and the abstention are insufficient figures, in this case, because they are at the dawn of the will of the particular person who abstained, or, if necessary, also of the ability to refuse the voice involved by the institution or body concerned. It is true that there are some of the elements that our parliamentary group has put forward through amendments, which have been included, for example, the fact that the activity of the Basque Court of Public Accounts by an external body is being audited or examined, let us say, either by the Court of Public Accounts of a neighbouring autonomous community or by some other body. We understand that this offers transparency, that before there was no transparency, and also an external control that, in our view, has a more independent character. But there is also an element that seemed to us to be crucial, which has also been mentioned, which was the control by the Basque Court of Public Accounts of the Basque Parliament. But it has not been said either, or it has not been said, that there is another element left out, and it was that the candidacy for the presidency of the Basque Court of Public Accounts will not be presented to the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs, motivating its project and also the purposes it will have throughout its term, which would allow us, with a certain degree of transparency, to be able to take the decision whether or not to support the corresponding candidacy. It would also have been an appropriate formula in the process of electing the President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. If we recognise the progress made in moving to a qualified majority in terms of the election of the President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts and of the rest of its members, in the sense that, to date, the simple majority, in our view, did not allow – let us say – a broad majority of this House to become part of the election of this body or of the composition of this body. In this sense, we do appreciate that progress is positive. We do not, of course, consider that proportionality would have been a formula, which in this case proposed it as an EH Bildu formula, because we believe that it is a mechanism that, in addition, the representatives who have participated in the parliamentary process of this proposal of law have said, basically the majority, that it was not the right way, but that the qualified majority allows for a greater consensus between different political forces; neither did it seem to us that it would have been a model that had been chosen between the corporates themselves or between the professional sectors themselves in this matter. It seems to us that, well, it is also positive that there must be a longer qualifying period of 12 years in this case of recognised experience in access to certain posts. But I say, to us the fact that the cadence has not been established seemed to us to be a red line, and so we express it to the parliamentary groups that support the Government, as well as to the People's Party, because with this modification can reproduce the fact that José Luis Bilbao or any other person accedes to the presidency of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, with the discredit that this implies, in our opinion, for the institution. We also propose, through one of the amendments, that a transparency portal be created in relation to the activity of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which in this case has not been possible to add to the procedure or the draft, the proposal for a law or the opinion that is coming to this House today. But, I say again, that beyond certain timid advances – in our opinion – with regard to guarantees of refusal or abstention, or in their case in the gender perspective that also seems to us to be a relevant element and that I understand that will be mentioned, we believe that, that the case of José Luis Bilbao can be repeated again through this amendment of the Law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, makes our parliamentary group unable to support this articulated text. And the truth is that we would have liked that on such a relevant issue as this there could have been a large majority of groups, that is, that virtually the whole House could have joined the amendment, but, well, it was not possible. And we believe that the element of deficiency, which is something very widespread in the rest of the rules of public accounts courts, should not have been a problem, but, finally, it seems to have been so. So, for our part, we will not be in favour of the opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists don't have to speak. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word. [[Pause]] I called you, Estarrona, I said.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u7	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. And I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Well, today, first of all, I'd like to take advantage of this discussion that we're here today, to thank the economist, judge advocates, attorneys, and attorneys, especially for the work they've done in this last term. When we collect the Basque People, we believe that jurors and legal jurisdictions are very necessary, and we will defend them and we will stand on them. But this is independent organs. And that was precisely six years ago, the reason we've been setting up a six-year-old settlement for the 1/1988 law of the Basque Office of the People, which brought us here. He was about to renew his independence, and we've been telling him all this time, and we'll continue to tell him clearly... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... for want of independence. And we've been saying it all this time, and we're still telling it straight. It's a proposal to change that law. And here it has been mentioned that we introduced Joseph Louis Bilbao, who is still the President of the court, 2015. In July 2015 he became President of the Basque Court of the People in the 2015 year of the year of Biscay. De Behecho, who was still in office, was appointed member of that court. The other day, asking you, Mr Lehendakari, about the repeated rotating doors in this country, I told you that these are internal and multi-directional, not all of which lead to private company boards. In fact, the most numerous in this country are those doors that lead to organs, agencies, entities or public enterprises. And the case of José Luis Bilbao is one of those. And let's make it clear that this is not just about 12. ) The head of the aldunic forum, in order to control the aldical accounts of this institution, to be head of a tribunal to which it is to appeal from day to day. Here also it is that this person is a remarkable member of a political party, which is entirely drawn from certain Siglas, to be the head of such an organ. And that is why we presented the law proposition, simple, short, but sufficient for the departure of the discussion, as we have said six years ago. We afterwards introduced it again at the beginning of this legislation, that it might be accepted, without any difficulty, without any change. And we thought there might be an opportunity of making an advanced update of the law. And therefore there have been many and many instances in the course of our proceedings. They've made all of them interesting and quantum contributions, which have revealed the independence and vast marg of the Basque Court of the People. But as the appearance progressed, it was clear that in some cases there was no intention of changing anything little. And today is the outcome of it. We didn't get it wrong, nothing's going to change what's agreed on. We believed that a serious, sincere debate could be held with a broad perspective to move towards an organ of maximum independence, transparency and objectivity. A body designated by Parliament, yes, with parliamentary control, yes, but away from party interests. Our proposal, and I admit it, was much better. I have already said at the beginning why to present it without any change regarding that occasion. We do not present or change an apex. But at least our proposal raised, as Mr Gordillo has pointed out, a degree of proportionality with the democratic representation of the House. However, what is to be approved here today seems to be that it responds to other interests, interests that have nothing to do with transparency and independence. And they do, moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, with the help of the People's Party, which, in this area, are not exactly exemplary in good practice and good practice. You are going to be able to appoint the president or we expect the president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts who you want for the next 12 years, without, moreover, requirements or professional experience in the audit, as so far, that is, because you are not going to be required either, under the law, to have a professional experience as an auditor technician or as an auditor of an organ of these characteristics. We have seen over the course of the appearances, for example, what is the model of the independent office for regulating and supervising recruitment, under the Ministry of Finance, in which it is career officials who take over the presidency, for example, of this office. Or we also have here, in our country, the Nafarroa Chamber of Accounts, where President Asun Olaechea is a person with a wide career in the field. She was a technical auditor. Then she has been an auditor of the body to finally become president. But that, with this law, is not going to be required. Here, with this legislation, it is going to be possible to name whoever agrees, that is, with a higher degree, as it has been collected, even allowing doors, and I say who agrees, because they are going to allow, as already indicated by the representative of Podemos, rotating doors, like the one that starred Mr. José Luis Bilbao in the head six years ago. Because this law that is going to be passed here today does not prevent it or would prevent it. He allows it. He allows it. One thing is words and speeches, but here is the text of the law. And, precisely, to repeat what happened six years ago can be given with the law that is to be passed here today. They want to make it look like they're changing, just to change nothing. So it's happened. Some of the experts who have passed by politics, some of them here, some of the states, and some of us have had some European experts. In many cases, this method of choosing members for an organ such as the American Basque Court of the People has been remarked to be improper. And that's a way of keeping it. And, though it's unusually common to some parties, it's not normal. It's not natural because it's common, and much less just. And we can't at least accept it if it's normal. When society demands, after all, more and more firmness, perfect transparency, and the management of the public's money and resources, a make-up will be made of the 33-year-old law of the House of Accounts, which seems to change, but without any change in its foundation. The others, as I have said, are going to accept a proposition which admits of revolving doors, as has been stated during the present day without any delay. And that's what I think it's all about, or almost everything. And that's why EH, our team, goes to vote against it, because, after all, it's because this change of law allows some people to continue to do the usual thing. And because, in our opinion, it is a step back in the direction of democratic hygiene, this law which you are going to receive here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. From the Basque Nationalist Party we have always argued that the creation of this Court was more than 30 years ago a very important step forward in the development of the self-government of Euskadi, and we continue to think the same thing. For the same reason, we have considered this amendment to the law governing the functioning of the Court relevant. Because a law that has been on its back all these years since 1988, nothing more and nothing less, needs or needs to be updated for the purpose of not making political hypocrisy, but of strengthening and supporting its values and principles. And, above all, in order to improve the day-to-day functioning and the development of its work, which is nothing other than the control of the public sector in Euskadi. These, and not others, should be the reasons for proposing a reform, which today, at last, will see the light after its passage through the corresponding presentation and commission during work throughout this year. A process that served my group to introduce a number of changes that we understand are beneficial. And what are these improvements? Mr Gordillo has already commented, but I would like to summarize the most relevant ones. First, to increase the guarantees as to the plurality of the representation of the members; requiring for their election stronger consensus between the different forces represented in the House. And so the proposal, the opinion, states that the members of this body must obtain the favourable vote of the three-fifths of the Basque Parliament, compared to the absolute majority that is now in place. They will also have to prove a professional experience of at least 12 years, more than at present. And in addition, the terms of office will last for six years, but a limit is set, they can only be renewed for one term. Secondly, I would like to remark also the improvements made in the right and choice of women and men in the sphere of equality, a subject which has not been mentioned and foreseen in the sphere of the legislation of the present day, and which we have placed upon the table. Thus the new text will introduce the necessity of a balanced appointment between women and men. All the organizations must take strong steps in this direction, but we believe this court has to take care of it. More. And with regard to the cases of incompatibility of the members and members of this Court, and in addition to those already contained in the current Act of 88, new ones are incorporated. As such, they are incompatible with orders representative of the popular election, public positions of free designation or managerial functions in associations or foundations that have to be held accountable to this Tribunal. And, moreover, while the members are active, they will not be able to hold any other public office and will be prohibited from acting on behalf of a political party or trade union. And on these points, which I could follow but which the previous speakers have already explained in more detail, on these points I have briefly mentioned have been on our priorities: consensus, parity, impartiality and transparency. Those are the points we have worked on. And these are vital aspects for the functioning and proper functioning of the rule of law. And what do we share or what texts and work have we shared with the other groups and which are in this opinion today? For in order to perfect this body, we have worked and accepted and incorporated amendments from other groups, as has already been mentioned, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita; that today they will not support this opinion, a pity. But what we considered to be positive contributions and which have been included without prejudice to the fact that they were not in our original proposals. And, as an example, the inclusion of the obligation to review the accounts of the Tribunal by an external audit or other external oversight body. But this opinion also includes more amendments than other groups share with us. The qualified majority is something that we share with all the groups in this House, and that is in line with the opinion of all the experts who have gone through the presentations. It improves that it is endorsed by all groups, except EH Bildu, which, although it did include it in its 2017 amendments, this year because it seems that it has not been relevant or interesting to make any amendments, and therefore did not incorporate it in its amendments. Other new improvements are also included in relation to that of other groups, which we have proposed, such as parity or reinforcement in the causes of abstention and incompatibility. And that was the joint work in which we shared our shared proposals with other groups, including including in this opinion proposals from other groups because today, feeling very much, they will not support this opinion. But still, and with this photo, as I said, and given the interventions of the spokesmen of EH Bildu and Podemos so they will prefer to vote against. And I wonder why. Because they prefer to establish red lines in deficiency and proportionality. I see no further reason why they are going to vote against, although this means not supporting a text that clearly improves the functioning of this Court. EH Bildu, as I said before, those who simply copy their 2015 initiative and not even incorporate their own amendments of the 17th, that is, that they do not improve anything, do not propose anything in this case, have been at the expense of the improvements of the other groups. Those who demand that others incorporate all the proposals of all the experts, I believe that when these experts believe that their proposal on the proportionality of the House does not improve the objectivity of the court, EH Bildu is not interested in listening and continues to defend his place in the Court in proportion to his representativeness. At this point I would like to ask you, Mr Estarrona, how do you intend to seek the objectivity and neutrality of the members, when in turn you, EH Bildu, propose quotas of proportionality? And I'd like to know what we're talking about. If they seek the objectivity of this Tribunal or what they seek is to have a greater number of members in the court. Because, let me say, Mr Estarrona, that the combination of both objectives, according to your version, would be a clear contradiction. On the other hand, both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu do not support this text because they do not include their proposal that there be some kind of quarantine of certain years to access charges... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... On the other hand, both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu do not support this text because they do not include their proposal that there be some kind of quarantine of certain years to access charges of this court. I do not know why they apply the principle of suspicion and not innocence in a general and preventive manner, why they have this prior mistrust when it comes to people who have scrupulously complied with all the access requirements of the legislation and who have honestly and professionally defended the general interest. I guess parties, their parties, they don't like, they like to be judged by what they do or don't do. The Basque Court of Auditors too. Let us judge, yes, but let us judge behaviors and actions, and if they are wrong, we question them and we will censor them. But no, you see only one sign, that of political subscription, and of course, if it is that of the Basque Nationalist Party, because it is not directly reliable. What's missing is whether they do it right or they do it wrong. Honestly, I think it's pretty unfair. You disable it directly because it has been proposed by our group, and more, one or one politician or public office, when you finish your responsibilities, what do you have to do, get under the table and never go out again because it is not reliable? You guys here today have pulled out again (?) With his finger accuser Estarrona, and in this way of the accusation I had to have pulled out today, came out with a t-shirt here from Bilbao Bilbao, because again to quote here with Juan José Luis Bilbao, Mr. Estarrona, I don't know what need. Well, look at him, congressmen. I just want to give you a few things, a few facts, to give you some arguments about what you're saying, don't I? Joseph Luis Bilbao, in proportion as he is president of this tribunal, from 2015, you have only asked the Tribunal to explain it to you: In 2016. And if you see the scene, if you see that scene in 2016, as far as the Tribunal's work is concerned, there's nothing to complain about. You haven't asked anything, nothing, about the members of the Tribune, about the work of the Tribune. There's never been any doubt about the Tributarian work, you haven't said anything to the Tribunal budget, not even to the memoirs. So, what's the problem? Joseph Luis Bilbao is a member of the Tribunal and president, though his work was excellent, and no political party complained about it? You doubt the competence of these people and the work of these people, we are not, we are absolutely certain that all of you have defended the general interest and have done so independently and professionally. What needs to be done is to ensure that the elected persons are unable to audit or vote on matters affecting the institution from which they come, and so we too have taken this into account in this amendment of the law, reinforcing those causes of abstention and causes of refusal, we believe that this is the way forward. Moreover, we must not forget that this amendment of the law that we are proposing adds to the rules linked to the ethical code, to the law that regulates the conflict of interests and incompatibilities, including the decree that develops the obligations and rights of public offices, and that as you know scrupulously you must comply. Therefore, those holding these positions meet the required requirements, are not the cause of any incompatibility and have been appointed in accordance with the law. So I'd like to ask that we don't have this deal, and especially the Euskal Public Accounts Club, use it for political purposes. Our object, at least, is not to know of others, but it has been to improve and to update the law for our party, in order that the Tribunal may better fulfil its designs and duties, which we have designed to obtain a large political consent. And here, Mr. Gordillo and the agreement of his team, I'd like to thank you for the honesty that we've been doing with a building view, with an agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u10	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u11	And all of us, well, we've come to a halfway point. I know that things must always be closed to an agreement, so thank you for the wide agreement that has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answering shift, Misto doesn't have to say a word. Mr. Gordillo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u13	Thank you, President, briefly from the seat. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the motion for a law before this House today is a positive agreement, that in which the groups we have actively participated in, I believe, we have worked hard, as chairman of the paper I have seen, it took us a year to reach a series of agreements, but I believe that they are positive agreements that greatly improve the previous regulation. It goes from an absolute majority to a qualified majority of three-fifths. That means that there will have to be a broad consensus in this House for the appointment of advisers. A number of measures are also included in the law, such as cases of incompatibility, etc. I think that's very positive. That the law could have been improved and that could have been included, Mr Estarrona, Mr Soto said, because a proposal or a provision establishing a deficiency, in fact, I have said so in the self-criticism that I too do. What happens is that in order to find a consensus and meeting points and obviously in a Parliament where to pass laws, because there is also an absolute majority of the groups that support the government, because I believe that the agreement, however, is very positive. I am a little surprised by what Mr Estarrona has said, because he has also made self-criticism, because man, the proposal that his group put forward was a paragraph, that is, if we wanted to avoid, as Mr Estarrona has said, I know (?) avoid that if the rotating doors, how about, I don't know how much, man, (?) established a text a little longer establishing all that sort of thing, that by the way, (?It was then our proposal. I do appreciate, on the other hand, Mr Estarrona's attitude in the committee and in the presentation, especially in the committee, where he proposed a number of experts who came to give their opinion. More than half of the experts he proposed did not have to do directly with what the Court of Auditors' role was, but well, however, his considerations have been interesting. And I am also surprised by Mr Soto, because I obviously believe, I insist, that it is a step forward, I think it is a good opportunity to move forward and to take a step forward and to improve regulation. On the contrary, maintaining the current regulation, which would imply the meaning of your vote, is, of course, much worse and much more pernicious for the independence of this Basque Court of Public Accounts. That is why I particularly encourage the Elkarrekin Group We can, as a man, if they do not vote in favour at least abstain to reflect a little, I believe, a relatively broad consensus of this rule in this House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u16	Thank you, Madam President. No, Mr Gordillo, we are not going to abstain. Let us see, yes, I believe that there were two fundamental elements that were going to be addressed in the procedure and that have been addressed in the procedure of this bill, which, on the one hand, was the election of the composition of the Basque Court of Public Accounts to a qualified majority or, where appropriate, a proportional representation of the composition of Parliament. I believe that, as a result of the appearances of the various experts, it has become clear and quite clear that the qualified majority prevailed over the other possibility. We believe that, even apart from being part of the agreements or not, when it comes to choosing the composition of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, it seems to us that it is the qualified majority a much more appropriate form, which guarantees more objectivity and also plurality and consensus in the space of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Well, save that question, which could have motivated our agreement, was the other element. That yes, it seems to us quite relevant and quite important; and I understand that the People's-Citizens' Party, at first, also seemed so, bearing in mind that in its proposal it appeared. And, in fact, if our approach is to vote against, it is precisely by an amendment to abolish the Socialist Party and the PNV from its proposal for a law. And we did believe it was, and we believe it is, a red line, basically, because the deficiency – and you said it – is a guarantee element that is established in all the courts of accounts, except the ballet. I was going to say that in my speech, but you have gone ahead and said so. So, we believe that the reason why the element of deficiency does not appear is one, and it is very simple, which is the case José Luis Bilbao. To establish the lack as a guarantee element in this process of law is to assume, by the Basque Nationalist Party, that what was done with José Luis Bilbao should not have happened. And that's why I don't figure out the element of the deficiency, if I'm not sure it would. We are convinced that it would appear, because there are also no compelling and motivated reasons not to establish the element of the deficiency. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party has come out here, and he has also not mentioned the reasons why the deficiency could not be included in the text. He has basically said that the refusal and abstention, together with new elements of incompatibility, plus the existing rules on conflicts of interest, guarantees the independence of those who are part of the body and that, therefore, the element of deficiency is not necessary. We do not share that, because, by that rule of three, then, in the end, we are going to do a comparative exercise, and in the rest of the Courts of Auditors, why then is the element of lack? For as a previous guarantee, not as an a posteriori guarantee once members have been elected. So we do believe that that is a fundamental element in not positioning ourselves in favour. In any case, it is true – and in this regard I cannot let go of my last intervention without saying so – that the specific attitude of the PNV spokesman with regard to amendments by our parliamentary group, beyond our position, has been very positive. He's been reaching out to us all the time. And all that has to do with an enrichment of the articulated text that is going to come forward today to the extent of the possibilities and the consensus that could be generated by your parliamentary group and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, well, they have been and have been. It is true that there have then been other elements that have been left out and that make it clear that the position of our parliamentary group is what it is. In any case, I do want to do that recognition before I leave the rostrum. And it's just an element. To me, the assessment on the subject of political hypocrisy, which Mrs Berrojalbiz said at the beginning of the speech. I don't know, I mean, I don't think we're holding a position of political hypocrisy in any case with our position. I believe that the element of lack and the element of criticism, the election of José Luis Bilbao at the time, has always been a constant on our part. And, therefore, the fact that we can now repeat that case is motivating our position against it, I believe, is consistent. I don't think it's a political hypocrisy exercise at all. Others will have to justify the reason why they were criticizing him at the time and it was reason not to be part of the amendment of the article of the Basque Public Accounts Court Act and, instead, now accept it. That's what others will have to ask themselves. And for me, that is a political hypocrisy exercise. Thank you, Mr. Soto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u18	Thank you again, Mrs. President. I have already explained, in the first intervention, why to present identically, without changing an apex, the previous law, which had been admitted to procedure, by the fact that we considered that in this way we facilitated the opening of that debate in order to create the paper in order to then be able to improve the law. But we have already seen the attitude of the groups that support the Government according to that paper was also developing: an attitude of changing hardly anything, of changing hardly anything. And that's what I was looking for. And it is true that we are asking for a series of appearances from all fields: from the Euskal Herria area, also from the state and European. And Mr. Gordillo said that half of them had nothing to do with it. Well, I think all the anti-fraud offices that have gone through, taking advantage of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, have taught us a lot about how to choose these types of organs. And the mechanisms that exist, respecting, Mrs Berrojalbiz, the democratic proportionality of a chamber such as that of Parliament, adding a number of tools, elements and measures, how one can tend towards the independence of the members who occupy these bodies. And we have had many examples throughout the presentation, because respect for proportionality does not have to be in conflict with independence when proposing such members. But you make a big contribution. And it's true, I won't deny it. I won't deny the obvious. It improves, it improves on one thing: from moving from the majority of this Parliament to selecting its members to the three-fifths. But, as I recognize that this is an improvement, you too should recognize that, in this country, we have other bodies in which that majority is even more strengthened, it is two-thirds, for example, in the Social Council of the UPV/EHU... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... that I recognize that this is an improvement, you should also recognize that in this country we have other bodies in which that majority is even more strengthened, it is two-thirds, for example, in the UPV/EHU Social Council, or, for example, the EITB Governing Council. And why hasn't that been done? Make numbers of the agreements we would need with the current representativeness, and you will understand why this agreement with the People's Party-Citizens. And, with regard to the contribution that is made in terms of equality and in terms of gender, on the issue of gender. Zuek jaso duzuena, ikusi dut goian Legea, ezin dut ourain hitz irakurri, baina zuek exacten duzuena aurkezpenean, ezta?, éta bestela zuzendu iezadazue, baina, aurkezpenean, saiatu, saiakera egin behar dela, emakume eta gizononen arteko oreka. That is to say, in the submission of the candidatures, that there is a balance in the presentation, that not in the election, when presenting who may be members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, when presenting, there is a balance. But then, in the election, it's something else. And besides, you guys do it like... like aholku. Well, like saying what it would be good for him to give up; that balance. But they do not, with the contributions you have made, establish any concrete measure to ensure that equality is effective and real when choosing the persons who will form that body. And then, well, we have already talked here about the period of deficiency and not picking up anything at all. It is true that a number of causes of abstention and conflict of interest are established, but for me the question I think is very clear and it is very well synthesized, and it is: Can a case like that of Mr José Luis Bilbao be given again with the law that is approved today here? Yes, it can be given. It can be given. Or, asking a question also with the previous point, with the issue of gender and equality: Can the circumstance be given, on the basis of this law, that all members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts are men? Yes, it can be given. Therefore, one thing is the words and speeches, and then there is the text of the law. And there is a widespread consensus, and we have been listening to it throughout all appearances at the international level, by establishing the principles regarding the hearing subject, as they have been explaining to us in appearances as he said. That, on the one hand, is technical training and professional skills. As far as technical training is concerned, the need for professional experience as an auditor or as an auditor is not mentioned. And then there is, secondly, independence. And the law that you are going to pass today, by the hand of the People's Party, today, here, for the Basque Court of Public Accounts, I'm sorry, but no. It does not comply with these general principles of the international sphere. As I said before, I'd like to finish thanking the economist, the judge advocate, the whole staff of administration necessary for the prosecution, because we believe that such organs are necessary. What we think will be accepted here today, we don't fill up a few minimum. And, as I have said, Mrs. Berrojalbbiz, the written speech you have brought to-day, I shall not enter it, because that is not a dispute; I mean, it is artificial. You thought we were supposed to come here, that speech, and that wasn't given. So I'm not going in because I don't even have time. But, above all, that's because it's not given. And the words and discourses are one thing, and I shall finish up, Mrs. President, and the legislation is another, which is admitted to-day, you wish to give us understanding that deep changes are given; but to change almost nothing for the law of 33 years, a simple make-up, and the law which you will protect, because it is contrary to a democratic hygiene, well, to that agreement behind which it seems to be supposed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I won't argue any more, even if you, Mr. Estarrona, say things in a very sweet tone, are not what you've said... Even if you could say it, the stones you threw weren't small. And it's not just there: So don't tell me what I've said here, that I've come out like an insult to you, whatever you say today, that's sweet to wear, isn't it? Because, in this law, everyone knows what he has brought, Mr. Estarrona. Today, EH Bildu, yes, will indicate that it is not ambitious, neither in parity, nor in the majority, that neither in technical requirements do I think I remember saying that we are not ambitious... Well, we have proposed what, also by comparative law, we have considered to improve the functioning of this law. But, as you say, Mr Estarrona, when you have not proposed any of these improvements by way of amendments, it seems to me, frankly, curious. Our group, as I said, has worked to improve the functioning of this Tribunal, and in particular, and in the Basque system in general, because of its direct impact on the functions of the Tribunal. And I think that you have lost the chance of agreement in this law, which EH Collectors and Podemos have won for the public and social sector, because the laws produce clear improvements, and I will not repeat them again? But objectiveity, impartiality, and transparency are proposed by the intention of strengthening it. But once again, he's blinding you with your fobic. You know that... and as reflected in the opinion, that we have improved, as I said in Basque, impartiality, transparency and objectivity, qualified majority of 3/5, reinforcements in the causes of abstention, refusal or incompatibility, transparency regime, parity. Improvements that we have proposed Basque Nationalist Party, Basque Socialists, and that have been improved with the proposals of the Basque-Citizen People's Group... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... Improvements that we have proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party, Basque Socialists, and that have been improved with the proposals of the Basque-Citizen People's Group, incorporating some improvements of Podemos. We have not been able to do the same with those of Bildu because there was no proposal to incorporate. And, as I said before, to this opinion and to this improvement that this law will bring, the Basque Nationalist Party will join together with the Basque Socialists and the Basque People-Citizens Group, and a pity that they do not want to join this wave seeing the clear improvement of this law, tending to improve what these groups and other groups have always claimed, right? I, once again, ask you to put the long lights on and not to remain in an interested debate on the credibility and, in your view, lack of confidence of those who work in this Court. Because you know that all these artificial turbulences only damage the image of an organ that needs another climate, and not the one that you create. From our group, the eubertians, I wish to value the work that has been done, and the honesty of agreement. Well, as I said before, we've all had to leave things in the way, but I'm glad to agree with a very large majority. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. End of discussion, we'll start our vote. The special vote of the EH Collect Group is on the vote, original 6th. To maintain the mint article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters 21; the opponents are 47; abstations, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u22	So it's not accepted. They're going to be thrown together together by Podemos-Nozzeral corrections made on the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u23	So they didn't accept it. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes that are given in the assembly, the supporters, the opponents, the oppositions, the abstainments, the whites.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u24	[[Berber]] A ver, I'm sorry. Oh, he was the other way around. We'll vote again because I don't know what happened. O sera. [[Berber]] What's going on? Please. We'll vote again and listen carefully. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can vote. [[Berber]] What's going on? Qué lío. A ver, please, the silence is good, because I'm... Otherwise we have to put the screens back on, i don't hear. This whirl. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes that are given in the assembly, the supporters, the opponents, the oppositions, the abstainments, the whites. The vote was this, 56... we'll vote again. Please, please, we vote again. Listen carefully, and please be quiet. Silence. Please be quiet. We vote again. All of us. Carmelo, please, silence. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can all vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes that are given in the assembly, the supporters, the opponents, the oppositions, the abstainments, the whites. [[Berber]] Yeah? We had no problem with the screen. [[Berber]] A ver, please. I don't press it. No, I told him. Well, we'll keep the vote, please, all right? We'll go on with the vote. We'll go on with the vote. We'll continue the vote, we've heard your opinion, we'll continue the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u25	Do the lawyers have anything to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u26	Well, he didn't say anything, we're voting, ya esta. He didn't say anything, so... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Do the lawyers have anything to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u27	He didn't say anything. We're at a vote. Ya está. He didn't say anything. So let's continue the vote. And silence, because I can't even hear what's said and what's happened with the screens. So let's move on. [[Berber]] - No, no, no, Let's continue with the other articles on the vote that haven't been corrected. We can vote again, yes. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 58; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 8; the abstainations, 0; white, 4.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u28	So it's accepted. To the vote... Please be quiet. They vote for the explanation of the particular vote of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: parties, 54; votes given, 54; supporters 0; contraries, 47; abstaining, 6; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u29	So they're not, they're not allowed. The explanation will be put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 53; the given votes, 53; the supporters, 46; the opposites, 7. Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u30	So it's accepted. The name of the law goes to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 53; the votes offered, 53; the supporters, 46; the opposites, 2; Absences, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u31	We're voting, Mr. Estarrona. Please, we're in the vote. You can't move when we're in the vote. It is, then, accepted. So it's agreed to change the law of February 5/1988 of the People's Accounts Court, and to change the law of the Basque Court. There's a vote. The Social Party has to use the vote description.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u32	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. I take this time of explanation of vote to say that the Basque Socialists welcome the adoption of this law and its reform, since it affects one of the bodies that depend on this Parliament, which are accountable to it and to the citizens, and because, with this amendment, we contribute to updating and improving a law that already has 32 years of life, but without losing the flexibility and capacity for self-organisation that has accompanied the proceedings of the Court. In this regard, I would also like to take the opportunity to convey that the reasonableness, objectivity, independence, that attitude and, ultimately, the quality of the Court's reports are duly guaranteed by the technical solvency of its workers, auditors, lawyers and advisers, and by the work systems, procedures and approval of reports which have been dealt with during all these years. We are talking about the Court of Auditors, which is responsible for supervising public administrations. And we agree on the need to strengthen the conditions of impartiality, experience and technical knowledge of its members. That is why we highlight as very positive aspects in the amendment of this law and which have already been highlighted previously: the strengthening of the three-fifths majority of the favourable votes of this House to elect the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. The strengthening of transparency, the limitation to a renewal of the term of office of the members of the Tribunal, which has reached a maximum of 12 years' term of office. Expand the profile of candidates, but also a greater demand for experience. The need for a balanced appointment between women and men members of the Basque Court of Auditors. The drafting of an internal regulation and the strengthening of the cases of incompatibility and abstention, as well as the strengthening of impartiality and transparency. We are therefore very pleased with the work and consensus on all these improvements, because we understand that, with these modifications, we contribute to the credibility and prestige of the public accounts supervisory bodies. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u34	I mean, what happened here for us doesn't have a pass. We'd like you to check the incident. And we want to know about it, too, we're going to ask the letters for a position, which has been a mistake of yours all. And the rest of us don't have to repeat that kind of vote. Then I'd rather... It seems to us that he doesn't have a pass, that it's serious, and that when they're given that way, they must be admitted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u35	Thank you. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all. The motion, introduced by Maria Garde Ramirez, the parliamentary members of the EHG, is to treat of the mental health of the people of the Basque Autonomia in Erdi. Together, Podemos-Nozzer the parliamentary crews... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... EHGGD members of the team, treating the mental health proper for the Basque Autonomy People of Erdigo. The same proposal as the parliamentary Podemos-Edemus, "about the state of mental health in Osa." Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garde Ramirez has the word to introduce and defend her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u36	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I'd like to put it in value today, even today, with the initiative of the teams, that the mental health of the UFO is in the center of the political agenda. And, unfortunately, though today there will be no deal, well, at least the mental health affair and the challenge will be on the table. I think that's important, because we have to work on this road and, if it's slow enough, we'll push the modifications. And I'll explain our motion quickly because that's the proposal our team will protect today. And basically, he has two basic ideas. On the one hand, during the last months we have often repeated, the mental health has generally been in the world of medical health and in the neighbourhood of beautiful health. Or, in other words, it is a field that has received little or little of importance and resource, or least of all. And that's easy to see, too, if we look at the medical budgets. In the past decade, year after year, the percentage of the health budget we're conducting to our mental health has come down. In 2011, we were over 5%, and this year, after 10 years, we're at 4.5%. So the importance of mental health has gone smaller because it has not been a priority to the health department. And we believe, for once, that there is time to change it, and to give the mental health the place it requires and worthy of it within the public health system, much more in what we mean to form and structure the sociostian field. And for this purpose, it is indispensable that in our pretty health we insert mental health first. And, by the way, even at this moment, follow the furrows marked by the World Organization of Health. And two, or the second great idea, which we have more than once proposed, to make a diagnosis. And I'm sure you're going to think of some of them "joe, they're getting heavy on the question of making a diagnosis." And, yes, it may be; some will add to it as they are bent against it, but well. It will still be hard to understand why we say that it is essential to make a thorough examination, and I will make another attempt. A mental bear looks like the wrong age to the animal nahi vadin badiogu, lehenik eta behin, ezagutu behar dugu zein den egoera, zein den erealidade. It is essential to know in depth what the current situation is in order to propose measures that meet the current mental health needs of citizens. Are gehiago, azken hilabete luceen ondorioz, is gehiago COVID-19aren eraginez inpaktu bat egon denean herritarren osasun mentalan. And besides, the pandemia herself has made many things for us, has shown us many things, and has left some teachings. So it's important to know what's going on and what's going on, what's the state of mental health at the moment, how are the three mental health networks, how first care, services, resources, citizens, how professionals are? We must then examine all this in order to be able to determine the proper and effective measures. It's a matter of logic for us. It's also a way of doing things. And this is where we were told that the Medical Department is constantly studying. And when we've asked for all these, we've got information, but there's no deep diagnosis in what we've got. There are reports about some of the programmes which have started in the pandema, other reports of 2016 around the state of the three young pages, but there is no diagnosis and profound study. He's not here. But in the meantime, professionals and operators working in mental health do these tests and analyses. And I'll give you an example. Ten days ago, on the 18th of October, the Eucadications of the American and allied societies with the mental health of children, teenagers, and young men were introduced. This. Well, this is just the result report. Here, the collective state of things is a deep analysis. A problem which has recently been revealed shows itself, necessity and need of perception. And finally, we make proposals for improvement. Indeed, a study funded by the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, and in its presentation, there were also representatives from both the Department of Health and the Department of Social Policy praising the study. So I don't know, do you see or don't you see the need to do this kind of analysis? Because here it is said that it is not necessary to make a diagnosis, but the agents and collectives who work day by day in mental health see it, and, moreover, go beyond it, do it. Coming to cover a need that is not covered from the department. And, well, that may be a formula, uh, that is, not doing it from the department but pushing and helping different agents and professionals who have knowledge in the sector to do it. And, well, and then implementing the recommendations they give us, that's also important. Guk gure proposed a jasotzen dugu egiten dena eragile éa profesionalen eskutik egin behar dela. Bath, kontxo, goazen hitz egitera age teens, ez? Ez du balio, edo ez esan egiten ari turetela ez zabiltzatenean egiten, eragilek daudenean horretan. Because this study, like others before, turns out to be revealing. And if you haven't read it, I invite you to do it. Because it picks up a lot of things, but I would emphasize those that have been underlined by the Federation itself. From the ideas. Mental health problems have increased in childhood, adolescence, and youth. They are the group that have suffered the greatest psychological impact in the pandemic. And, in addition, people who suffer from mental illness are getting younger and younger. Something very worrying. So, something we're not doing right for these to be the results. Because we are not talking about a diminishing reality, we are talking about a growing reality, which is increasing. That's why we don't want to do analysis? Why don't we like the results? Because these results require change and action. You really think with your proposal, your correction, your mental health... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...and require action. Do you really think that with your proposal, with your correction, your mental health services will be able to pay special attention, but that we will turn back to such a dreadful situation, without adapting and strengthening these services? According to Fedeafes, and summarizing a lot, we need to increase resources, we need to increase the frequency of sessions, that is, people need a more continuous attention that can't be given right now or that can't be given. We need to create socio-health resources that practically tell us that they do not exist and we need to increase the presence of health professionals in the system, mental health, forgiveness, in the system. These, some proposals, made by Federafs, better provide for the collective collective of children, teenagers, and young men. They may be useful to go beyond it, but we should need a wider diagnosis, and with regard to other collectives to confirm it. And from that point on, work and some directions. Because, egidentemente, it is necessary to renew mental health strategy. (... The strategy, general, EAE is 2010, and it's been over the years, huh? And the mental health nets in the three countries must be directed to one pattern, or steps to do so, because it is a day, and Faith also remarked in the exposition, we have three networks and three different models. And that's what makes people have very different resources, and people have different services and access or not. But that can't happen because every citizen has the same rights. And it's essential to start a sociosanital field, because they tell us that... ) That there is no such thing as 'Battlemen'; that there are not enough social resources. And, to me, it's clear that we have to get the mental health out of the corner now that we have to take it to the first line and to the centre of health policies, now it's time, we're late. And that's political choice. And I think it will be plain to-day in the question of mental health, in this legislature, who has passion, will, will, and will, to deal with challenge with first and convictions, and who are not ready to do it. Because you're just working on it, it's no good. We have to do more and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is the representative of the Animate Party, Mr. Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u38	Egun where we're legebiltzarkideok. For Elkarrekin Podemos e Izquierda Unita right now we think that there are objective data to say that mental health has worsened in our Autonomous Community and that is why last September we recorded a non-law proposal in this regard to affect this issue which, as has been said and we share, should take a central place in the policies of the Basque Government in the coming times, in the coming years. We believe that there are objective data to say that mental health has worsened in an important way in Euskadi in recent years and logically worrying about the pandemic we still live in. According to different studies carried out in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the levels of stress, anxiety, depression that has brought the pandemic have been growing in the general population as time has gone by, but we also think that we have enough data to identify those sectors and groups that are suffering most from mental health problems. There has been an increase in cases of anxiety, depression, stress, pathological suffering, rapid and unfavorable evolution of dementia, alcohol abuse and other addictions, and adaptive disorders to which in our opinion and in the opinion of many professionals to whom we have been able to listen, new cases will be added, new pathologies in the medium term, such as posttraumatic stress disorders and alert us to a higher risk of suicidal behavior. We therefore consider it essential to strengthen the care framework and to take specific actions in this area following the pandemic. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left we propose with this proposal not of law to prioritize at this moment the attention of public health to mental health. And we do, we wanted to do it in two concrete ways. First, we propose a general strengthening of mental health care policies, which obviously requires an increase in professionals and a greater budget within our public health system. But we also think that it requires better knowledge and assessment of the existing attention at the moment to be more effective in this reinforcement. We believe that it is not just a matter of increasing budget, but of increasing budget and professionals to ensure adequate early comprehensive mental health care in our community. And secondly, we propose it by directing attention in a focused way in those sectors and collectives that we already know are those who are most harshly suffering from this increase in mental health problems. The people most affected by psychological suffering in the general population have been women and young people under 25 years of age. Thus, as we would include here, health personnel in the care sector and the educational community by being forced to perform drastic and urgent adaptation work in the care environment of society. Public health needs to take into account in our opinion at the moment not only the additional impact to which I have referred that has entailed the new risks arising from the pandemic, confinement, social distancing, lack of socialisation, frustration, fear and uncertainty about health, but also the socio-economic effects that have mainly affected people with lower incomes and people in a serious situation of social exclusion. The pandemic, in our view, has highlighted the weaknesses of public health management in Euskadi. Surely we will be told from the groups that support the Government that has also demonstrated the strengths; it is something that I am not going to... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... weaknesses in public health management in Euskadi. We will surely be told from the groups that support the Government which has also demonstrated the strengths; this is something I will not discuss. I'm sure he'll have done both. But it seems to us that the obligation, in this case, of our group is to demonstrate the weaknesses in order to try to correct them and to be able to have better mental health care in this complicated situation. The number of professionals in psychiatry and psychology offered by public services is insufficient to respond to the growing demand for mental health that currently exists. In addition, budgetary investment in mental health, in relation to total health investment, has been decreasing since 2011. We believe that this issue needs to be reversed. It is true that the mental health budget in recent years has increased, but it is symptomatic that within the health budget the percentage it represents has decreased. And it seems to us that we should also address this issue. In this regard, we propose a series of measures to improve mental health care as part of the right of citizens to have quality public health care at a time when the mental health problems existing before the virus have taken on a new and serious dimension that must be addressed from the public health system in an integral way. These are measures aimed not only at increasing investment, as I said, in mental health, but above all at focusing attention on sectors and groups that need more attention at present, measures, ultimately, to strengthen our public health system in the field of mental health. I think a week ago we could get to know the results of that study, to which Mrs Garde has referred, of the Euskadi Federation of Associations of Families and Persons with Mental Health Problems. And the truth is that we have contrasted it with the initiative that we registered last September, and we have to say that we think that the proposals we bring in our initiative are in the direction of the conclusions and the demands that were concluded from that study. And therefore, we think that we are making a proposal that goes in the right direction: prioritizing mental health by ensuring equality, universality and free access to public mental health services and services for all citizens, especially for the population of children, adolescents, young people, persons with disabilities, LGBTI collectives and women with the development of early care that avoids the further development of more serious pathologies. We also propose that the mainstreaming of gender and sexual diversity in a comprehensive manner be ensured in the design of policies and strategies around mental health. We know that women are currently being prescribed more psychopharmaceuticals than men with similar mental health status, according to UPV studies. Diagnosis of depression and anxiety is more frequent in women and with similar mental health states. We therefore believe that these issues should be corrected. We know that there is a clear relationship between the level of gender inequality in society and gender inequalities in mental health. We also raise an issue that we think is important: to guarantee the right to autonomy of people with mental health problems, in order to develop their capacities as much as possible, because we believe that they are currently guaranteeing us. We are told who are analysing these issues that lack support resources to promote the emancipation of these people, lack specific residential resources for young people with mental illness, and resources and initiatives to promote the employment of these people that exist, that we know very well, because they seem to be insufficient. We also propose to implement specific programmes aimed at the prevention and promotion of mental health in primary care centres, educational centres and social centres, prioritizing the development and deployment of 100% of the coverage and services provided in the current Social Services Portfolio, because the resources included in this Social Services Portfolio for young people with mental illness are not being deployed and programs and services must be recognized to respond to these needs. We could have a good time pointing out or describing the proposals that we have collected in this GNP with 9 points, but it is not going to give me time. So I did want to just end up with a question. I share Mrs Garde's view with which she has started her presentation. I think it is good that different groups have brought this issue to the Basque Parliament, because this issue is now a very important one that needs to be addressed. Our group has tried to negotiate with other groups, we have tried to reach an agreement with the groups that support the Government. I must admit that an effort has been made on both sides to bring them closer together. But also in that effort or in that exercise we have contrasted the points that we had in common, that we have, there are coincidences, but also those divergences that we have at the moment. That is why we, even though no agreement has been reached, our initiative will not come out, we will continue to bring initiatives to strengthen mental health care, to make the changes that have to be made, because we think that at the moment the Basque Government has to pay more attention to the issue of mental health, that it is often a question that passes silent, or secretive, or unnoticed between society, but that they have a serious and strong affection in our society and at the moment a serious... a situation of gravity, I would say, which has risen and therefore requires a new effort of... on the part of the Government, of Osakidetza, but not only of Osakidetza, but in a comprehensive way by the Government and different departments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Again, we discuss this subject, discuss mental health in this legislature. It's true, even before the holidays, we discussed a proposition, and he tried it or went on... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... I'm here for the law. It is true, even before the holidays, we discussed a proposition, and it was tried, or the text represented by parties who support the Government. At that moment, we said it wasn't enough, and I thought it would be proper for mental health services, Osacin and first care, to strengthen them, and, above all, to make a thorough reflection, to determine the consequences of the pandemia, and to arrange the measures accordingly. It is clear that the effect of the panic in mental health has been remarkable, and, as I have said, this indicates that services must certainly be strengthened. As we all know, the pandemic has had an important impact on mental health, on emotional health. And well, because they have increased all the episodes that have to do with stress, anxiety, depression, sleep disorders; and above all, they have also had a special impact, we would say, on the most vulnerable people as children and older people can be. Already in the survey on the mental health of the Spaniards during the covid pandemic, prepared last March by the CIS, it is reflected that half of the population has been afraid of death, of the contagions. Above all, we are referring to the different waves and the impact of the restrictions and measures taken, and the news regarding deaths and people infected. As I said, half of the population is afraid of death, contagion, 41% sleep problems and 51 almost 52% have felt tired or with few energies. This must also be added not only to the health-related situations, but also to the uncertainty surrounding the consequences or the consequences of the pandemic, not only at the level, as I said, of health, but also at the economic level, people who have been able to lose a job, who have also seen their employment situation at risk. And those are precisely the situations that can now be happening, that is, emerging from the health emergency. It is true that we are attending meetings in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. But, as we were told yesterday by the vice-advisor in a radio interview, it seems that this does not imply that we can be immersed in a fifth wave, in a sixth wave, forgiveness. It is true that these uncertainty situations are still there. Citizens continue to perceive it as such; and above all, certainty in the field, as I said, economic and employment. It is true that Fedeafes, the federation that joins the three mental health associations in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, has done throughout... not only the pandemic, reflections, but also already, in a study of the year 2019, talked about, or did, rather, an analysis on the supply of socio-health resources in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We talked just before we blew up the stage of the pandemic we've been through. "En feelostros tenemos que decir que hemos anado nuestra propia enmida a las dos inlicativas." We have submitted our corrections, both to the motive and to the other proposition as well as to the law. We must say that the proposition of Pomos was first introduced, and that after the interpelration introduced by the Combat, the motion was introduced. As the matter was the same, we decided to introduce the same text to both proposals. On the one hand, we consider it important that a... we haven't called it a diagnosis. We believe that even the diagnosis is something much more..., it can be much more elaborate. In this sense, we thought it best to talk about an analysis of the situation of emotional and mental health, not because it was not elaborated, but because it was done in a shorter time and, also, that it not only understood a diagnosis of the situation, but also that reference could be made to the measures that could be taken, to the impact of the pandemic itself. And we also consider, I think, that we agree with the two groups here on the need to strengthen the mental health network of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. If we introduce in a second point the need to carry out an evaluation on the Strategy of Suicide Prevention in Euskadi, as we all know, approved in 2019. It's been two years. In this we do agree with the Podemos group, which collects Elkarrekin Podemos, which collects this point in its initiative and consider it appropriate; and especially considering that carrying out an analysis in relation to this strategy in which this group is going to proceed to ask numerous questions about it and register them already this week, it seems to us that it has not been developed at the pace that this strategy for the prevention of suicide should have been developed. And that is why, seeing that we are in the middle of its implementation, we consider it appropriate to carry out such an evaluation. On the other hand, we also agree with the Podemos group on this subject. We are talking about specific programmes aimed at the prevention and promotion of mental health in the fields of education, social and health, and especially in primary care. And finally, something that the other groups do not collect or otherwise can collect, we talk about increasing the financing of mental illness places in social health spending agreements, with the aim of covering the necessary growth in the number of places in the three historical territories. And then we do make a reference again to expanding mental health professionals. You know, Por lo dot, you know, if you're fine no one has texto traado sobre el que policionarnos. There's no text. We've defended our proposal according to this, and he'll vote. And I do have to say that in relation... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...there's no text. We've defended our proposal according to this, and he'll vote. And I do have to say that with regard to the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, it seems somewhat insufficient to us, I believe that the text already adopted in June is also literally repeated. It does not bring anything new, I think it does not consider or take into account, rather, the situation or consequences of the pandemic and the impact on the mental and emotional health of Basque citizens, because it speaks or contemplates that they remain particularly vigilant to the emotional consequences and particularly on mental health. He therefore talks about mental health services, as he said, being particularly vigilant in that regard, because I do not think there is any need to say that. And as always, with the knowledge of the staff, that is, I think it would have been better, Mr Aiartza, with all my respect, that almost no text had been presented, in this sense, we find it insufficient and we regret that the Basque Government or the groups supporting the Government in this amendment did not want to (?) a little further, and I think that the situation deserved to go a little further, to be able to carry out that analysis, to talk about strengthening resources, to talk about prevention and promotion measures to avoid episodes that have to do with mental health situations, to be able to carry out an evaluation of the strategy of suicide, to strengthen places that have to do with the socio-health field, that are agreed with the historical territories, that is, I think there were things that had to be moved forward, that had to be strengthened, and we regret that the groups that support the Government have not seen it this way. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I will start by saying something that we Socialists think is entirely relevant and that without mental health there is simply no health. This statement serves to identify the importance that socialists attach to this issue, and it is also our position in any institution regardless of whether we govern or are in opposition, regardless of the geographical area in which we are located, because the conditions of mental or emotional health are simply universal. And we Socialists are clear that promoting the emotional, psychological and social well-being of our citizens must be a priority. And if this is a priority, we need to adapt our mental health network in the case of Euskadi in favour of a comprehensive and coordinated community care model between OSI care programmes and devices, mental health networks and the socio-health system, and simply in what we are socialists in the Spanish Government and in the Basque Government. And if we are talking about Euskadi more specifically, this is because we fix it as one of the commitments of health action in the government agreement that PSE and PNV developed in August 2020, that is to say, being already aware of the impact of COVID-19 on the mental and emotional health of our citizens, and with this we ratify today our unequivocal commitment to move forward in an agile, comprehensive, coordinated and public response to the challenges that we have to face in terms of mental and emotional health. As you know, at the last plenary session of June we were able to discuss mental health on the basis of an initiative by EH Bildu, an initiative that focused on the impact of the pandemic, like today's initiative, which in point two focuses all its proposals on the elaboration of this comprehensive prior diagnosis of pandemic consequences. The crisis caused by the covid is evident, as we said in that debate that it has had an impact on the emotional well-being of our citizens, and this has already been pointed out by different international bodies from the beginning and made recommendations. Since that time, as we told you in June, we have had numerous publications that have studied the effects, for example, the research report on the psychological consequences of COVID-19 and the confinement carried out by... from the UPV-EHU in collaboration with other Spanish universities, so, as we told them, we continue to consider that in this aspect of knowledge, of the reality of the consequences at the psychological level, there is already an important work done, which, by the way, brings together conclusions in all areas. And this is because they cannot be otherwise, because, as I said at first, the conditions of mental or emotional health are universal. Another thing is that the place where we were lucky to be born, live or work can condition the response to whether a pathology happens, and that will depend on the level of public services that society may or may not have. And I think that's what we have to focus on. And that was the virtuality that we saw in the initiative proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos, because it addressed it in a broader sense. We appreciate this approach more positively and it is true that we made an amendment, the same as in June, but with a different vocation, which also resulted in us offering you a compromise amendment, Mrs Garde and Mrs Garrido, which is very complete from the start with seven points, sorry, nine concrete commitments. I am going to regret that after several days of negotiations we have not been able to bring here a compromise amendment with Elkarrekin We can believe that I would have put forward a rather more complete text. And I am sorry because we Basque Socialists are working on a shared scenario regarding the approach to the mental and emotional health of our citizens, both in the Government of Spain and in the Basque Government. In Euskadi we began, not to retreat to the Upper Pleistocene, in 2010 with the strategy of mental health. We also took a giant step among all with the strategy of suicide prevention, and we have also set it in the government agreement between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, developing it already through concrete actions and publications... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party this objective, developing it already through concrete actions and publications, such as the government program itself, where these commitments are reflected, the strategic framework of the Department of Health and, more recently, with the socio-health strategy that was presented last Friday and that they have not yet had the opportunity to study. But we are also working on this in the Government of Spain, where Podemos is our partner, through the National Mental Health Plan led by the Ministry of Health and in whose coordination the Department of Health of the Basque Government has also participated. Therefore, I do not think anyone should be surprised that in this we have enough coincidences, even though these coincidences cannot be visible today, because we have not reached this compromise amendment. I think it was a good text. I'm sorry I couldn't reach the agreement, because it was an amendment that picked up issues that we've been doing, as explained in those development documents of the government agreement, which I've commented to you, and others raised to implement by Elkarrekin We can in its original initiative and which coincide with the approach of the development of this bipartisan government of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. I would like to comment on the fact that we had a commitment, with regard to COVID-19, to remain particularly vigilant in the face of the emotional consequences and psychiatric disorders that the pandemic could have caused in the citizenry, with a commitment to ensure, where appropriate, their health care. And then we already opened the fan to the general scope, the general character, to continue promoting mental health and to continue implementing a continuous update of response tools. These include the development of mental health programmes, ensuring the principles of equality, universality and free access to public mental health benefits and services for all citizens; emphasising attention to the social and health needs of groups particularly affected by axes of inequality or greater social vulnerability, such as children, women, the elderly, persons with dependency and disabilities, persons who are discriminated against by their sexual orientation, and, in particular, women with mental illness who suffer gender-based violence, seeking their best comprehensive care, together with their children. We also planned to ensure the strategic commitment of the Basque health system to work with a gender perspective and attention to diversity; Implement the objective of ensuring the autonomy of people with mental health problems; coordinate comprehensive policies and actions on awareness-raising and prevention to eradicate the social stigma associated with mental illness; continue to implement ways of involving people with mental disorders and their families; continue with the evaluation framework of the suicide prevention strategy presented in 2019, and implement early prevention and detection measures, through the coordination of the different levels of care, socio-health and education; continue to increase the budget for mental health, as well as the resources and, to the extent possible, the professionals of the different areas of care; and, finally, complete the design and development of a new mental health strategy, as reflected in the government programme. A very complete and worked-out compromise amendment that, for our part, makes clear the priority commitment of socialists, in order to promote in all institutions the emotional, psychological and social well-being of our citizens. To me... We do not have this compromise amendment today. We will have opportunities to continue working on different agreements. But I do want to move something that seems important to me, because at least we have the hope that, although this compromise amendment is not voted on today, it reflects the working parameters in which this Department of Health of the Basque Government is working. And, therefore, it is the development of the areas that we have collected in the government agreement and in the strategies that have already been developed by the department. Therefore, while regretting not having this compromise amendment today, I am going to continue to work on those points on which we agree and which are also natural, because, as I have said, you and we are partners in the Government of Spain, and we have a mental health strategy. And the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party are in this Basque Government developing a mental health strategy and also actively participating in this plan of action of the Government of Spain. Therefore, the agreement is logical. I believe that we will have a chance at other times to approach it and that it will also be good for the citizenry. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The eubertarian is the representative of the group. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. In this discussion, I think we can at least share two ideas. One, the importance of mental health in our system. Two, send a peace message to society. We're talking about a very sensitive subject, and unity is a value. This debate, from the procedural point of view, is a joint one, according to the agenda. But not according to my mental scheme. Mr Hernández's initiative comes a month before Mrs Garde's. And I've been working on it since mid-September. Mr Hernández, I do not share the points of your justification. But as I move forward with attention on each of the points on its operative side, I find in them a coincidence of ideas, references to documents that support our approaches and also, of course, divergences. And I wonder, as it cannot be otherwise, whether we can reach agreement on this important issue. And for this we start to work, respecting the initial scheme of his initiative. His scheme, one, prioritizes mental health, guaranteeing equality, universality and free access to mental health services and services, he writes to us. Mr Hernández, the current mental health strategy in Euskadi and the technical documents of the Mental Health Advisory Council use the Community model as a reference that incorporates the above principles and adds some others. That's why, at that moment, at this moment of negotiation, we've... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... incorporating the above principles and adding some others. That is why, at that time, at this time of negotiation, we made a proposal to that effect. Two, of their scheme, guaranteed the right to autonomy of people with mental health problems with the object of..., wrote to us. Indeed, within the principles of the community model as the axis of the Euskadi Mental Health Strategy is the recovery model that addresses precisely these issues. That is why we are making a specific proposal on this issue. Three, implementing specific programs aimed at the prevention and promotion of mental health in primary care centers, in educational centers..., writes us. And, Mr Hernández, we tell you that mental health promotion measures are cross-cutting, not caregiving, and address issues such as good parenting, early attachment development or stress minimization. In this sense, initiatives are already being developed in health centers, training and implementation of positive parenting or decrease of stress in schools, program of development of psychoemotional curriculum aimed at incorporating stress management skills and increase of resilience in adolescents. However, it's an area where... for which we must bet and develop more actions. That's why we're making you a proposal. Four, working to eliminate stigmatization and promote the social well-being of people with mental illness, he writes. Good. We understand that it is formed, we believe, is formed the Interinstitutional Table for the Approach of the Stigma in (participation?) of all administrations and agents... with the participation of all of them and agents directly concerned by the stigma that weighs on people with a diagnosis of psychiatric disorder. That is why, and on the basis of what is coming out of the Bureau, we have a proposal. Five, show their particular concern, he writes, for women with mental illness who suffer gender-based violence and to implement measures... Mr Hernandez, there is a strategy and model of intervention in Osakidetza for addressing gender-based violence that captures the specific case of women with mental illness always taking care to avoid stigmatization. And on the basis of that, we make a proposal to you. Six, implement research to assess the quality of services provided to people with mental illness. Very interesting about the recovery model that is reflected in the Strategy as well. Proposal. And so to the end of his document. We, Mr Hernández, have respected the framework for debate that you have set up, we have maintained the outline of your initiative, we have negotiated with you with a desire to agree, we have deepened each of the points that you raised and we have put forward proposals for real progress in all these areas. But, well, we have not been able to materialise the agreement. I, as discussed earlier, hope that all this work will serve the future. It is, let us put it this way, the hope that I still have of the work that has been done. The second part. He said there were two parts. We have the initiative, Mrs Garde's motion, in which we developed her theory of the new time in mental health. Theory that is essentially based on an artifice: to expand in such a way the concept of mental health that it overflows on the concept of emotional state, making practically disappear the idea of emotional state of people. Sailburu already made us meridianly clear, in response to its inquiry, which are two different concepts and do not require similar attention. But this recurring theory of yours is not innocuous, its application has effects. You make an apocalyptic reading of a society devoid of its own resources and, therefore, in a situation of psychological helplessness and suffering, in which the health system appears as the only possibility of solution, when this is not true. All of us have powerful adaptive mechanisms to deal with the adversity to which we are subjected in different vital situations related to traumatic or loss experiences. Everyone, we all have resilience, resilience after a traumatic experience. That's our first line of protection, which you destroy. In addition, in our culture we have family and social networks in which we can find relief and solution to the psychological discomfort associated with the adverse experience. This second line is a powerful element of protection, which your theory also destroys. When these two lines of protection do not give total solution, always, there is always a coverage in the health system through Primary Care or in more serious cases of mental health networks. Today, casually, there's an article in... the press posts an article by a mental health professional, so I can see, that talks about his concept. "The very term mental health as it is currently being used makes it impossible to be mentally healthy. Synonym for any mood or emotional state that is not the one of complete satisfaction." Very interesting. Beyond its apocalyptic reading, reality shows us that even in the pandemic, in general terms, and I say in general terms, the adaptive capacity of society has been very high. From my perception, from my perception, probably very basic, from that perception, I have an image of this reality that we are discussing today that is based on four levels of protection: the staff, how I face my adversities; that of my nearby environment, how that environment helps me to face those adversities; that of Primary Care and that of the mental health network. With the application of your theory you charge 75% of my shield protection. Mrs. Garde, do us all a favor and everyone... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... 75 % of my protective shield. Mrs. Garde, do us all a favor and stop theorizing about mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the side of the teams that have no corrections, Mista is not here, so we'll go round to the EH Collect Group, the representative, Mrs Garde is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u46	We've heard different proposals today, each team has made its own view. And, well, at least, it may be remarked that we share a few groups for me with the challenge of mental health, that the need of improving the citizens is apparent, and that there is a time in the first beautiful health to strengthen mental health. However glad it may be, it is a pity that there should not be an agreement to-day, between one and the other, that there should be no agreement between us, between whom we may be concerned and between us. But come on. And it is also a pity that the text which will be admitted to-day in our Chamber has been admitted to be the same text four months ago, though time has passed and many things have changed. Yes, Mr. Aardz, you did so, but you did have your proposal in your correction, and you didn't do it. And what will be admitted to-day is at last a rather trifling text, "Let them keep their attention, or give particular attention to it," is something of this nature. And really, professionals are doing that for months ago, o sera, you didn't make any real contributions to this discussion. I'd like to say, please, to pass the copy-paste. It doesn't matter what the proposition is made about mental health, and who makes it, and the same correction as you present. And you're working here on September 2nd, and you're working on 'control+v' 2nd September? Yes, yes. And yes, you said there was a proposition. Klaro, I don't know him, because I don't know him. sin más. Baina zerbait entzun dut, and that proposal I think was plagued with continuing to work, to continue implementing, to continue developing, that is to say, here is an increase in mental health problems, this is a reality, and to continue doing what we have been doing so far because it seems to be not worth it, because look at what results. Then we will have to do something else, we will have to do something new to face a challenge that we have before us. And for something they will not have reached an agreement with Mr Hernández, because they have not proposed anything new to him anyway, I don't know. Mr Hernandez will make that clear. But well, and another thing I'm going to tell you, it asks me not to be alarmist and I ask you to analyze it, because many years ago the scientific community and the medical community defined what mental health is. We are not going here to define anything or to say what it is and what it ceases to be, but they speak of well-being in all its broad spectrum, not only of mental illness, but of mental health, of being able to deal naturally with all the challenges and setbacks that life poses to us, and that is mental health. And you say that everyone has tools and that everyone has networks and that I come here to say that... something apocalyptic and alarmist. I'm sorry, but we don't all have the same tools and we don't all have the same networks to go to, and that's a reality. So, we need attention for all and that contemplates all realities. Just like you have many tools and networks to go to, but not everyone has them. So, for those people who have... need other needs and other support what is your proposal, what is it? That they come to your network of friends to treat your insecurities and your things? Is that what you're proposing? Well, that's it. Two weeks ago I said so to the Chief of Apples, and I confirm it here too, we never said things are not done, but it is plain that we must do better and better. Its own reports underline that before the pandemic there was a lack of structures, that the pandemic has overcome us and that the measures taken have not been sufficient and that the situation is structural, not cyclical, and that it not only responds to the pandemic. So sin más, end. What has been said, I think has been evident in the question of mental health, in the question of the law, who has passion and will to contend with the first and conviction, and who has not. It's time to give the mental health the place it needs and deserves, for the good of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u48	Bai, eskerrik asko. I will explain why I or my group understand that we have not reached an agreement, that we have been asked to see whether it is possible to explain ourselves, and also Mr Aiartza and Mr Rico have referred to that negotiation that we have conducted these days. Well, since the recognition, as I said before, that there has been an attempt on both sides to agree, I believe that sincere, from the recognition to something that Mr Aiartza explained, they have made an attempt to respect that framework that posed our original initiative, to respect it in the sense of raising, to address the nine issues that we raised in our original initiative, but the disagreement was then in the content of those nine initiatives. It is true that there were points on which we agreed, on which I of course the last proposal that the Government..., that the groups that support the Government launched me, there were specific points on which I could of course have signed, our group could have signed, but there were others that did not, as Mr Aiartza and Mr Rico know, so we also transferred a counterproposal to them in which we included those elements that we understood were not collected... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...we also sent them a counter-proposal that included those elements that we understood were not reflected in the proposal that we were being approached. And these are elements that are important to us. Perhaps the point of substance, because it is impossible at this time to explain to parliamentarians what are the issues of disagreement, perhaps the point of substance is that for us many of the issues we raised were raised in the sense that they were being made. Because many times they are already in the papers, and in the papers we certainly agree, and I refer to what Mr Rico has said about us sharing space in the Government of Spain. And it's true, and we have a government agreement there, which is on paper, but then I think everyone is aware that day by day we also see differences in the practical exercise of that shared space. And it seemed to us that what was at stake here was to put on paper issues that would advance in the practical exercise of policy in relation, in this case, to mental health. Not to reiterate ourselves so little in what has been said. Because we have differences. When the Government talks on many of these points about continuing to develop or to continue to implement, etc., what we contrast with the data we have is that they are not actually done. And it was not our goal to come up with a furious criticism of the government's policies, but to propose that this series of measures be put in place, which the different actors have referred to certain important reports – which are also related to patients and family members – that have put on the table that fail. And it does not give time to read many of them, and we are going to debate more on this issue, but many of the issues are failing, Mr Aiartza has referred to some of them. And the truth is, if the Elkarrekin initiative was to be approved, it had to get to grips with those issues. Because we know, as I said before, that the resources included in the portfolio of social services for young people with mental illness are not being deployed, and that was an important issue for us. And it was a matter that we raised and on which there was no agreement. Because we're detecting how insufficient attention is for minors. The counselor is here, I'm sure she knows the results of all those reports. The health centres we were talking about, which we were putting forward in a very specific way, are increasingly being consulted by schools in relation to mental health problems among students. It is true that things are being done, but we also know that not all schools and training centres are considering mental health awareness as a priority and that there is a lack of action on these issues. That the training of education professionals, since also in this regard the Government should act in a concrete way. And on the issue of violence against women, because we also felt that the approach that was taken on a number of more resource-related issues was insufficient. Because I've already said it in my first point. All right, we agree that resources for mental health care should be increased, but what we are proposing is to do so in a very concrete way, where perhaps there was no agreement to ensure the increase of resources, in particular in mental health networks. And to avoid also what we think has been diminishing and that we think is a mistake in relation to the psychosocial modules. There were elements of agreement, and we appreciate it positively, and we are going to continue working because we have seen, as it were, a gap in trying to continue negotiating on this type of matter for the disposition of the groups supporting the Government, but there are also elements that we certainly do not meet in relation to the demands that we believe are currently on what needs to be changed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u50	Thank you, eskerrik asko, andrea president. I'll be very brief. But I am surprised, Mr Aiartza, that I imagine you will be government-marked guidelines, of course you are one of the groups that support the government, but it is true that it leaves me somewhat perplexed by the minimal capacity to react and not to move on to an issue that is obviously topical and is there. And I think the figures speak for themselves. Osakidetza's own mental health specialists are warning of certain situations, without falling into drama. If this is not about falling into drama, but it is clear that the current situation cannot be looked at from the prism that you want to look at, that it is as if we had not passed a pandemic situation with the consequences that it has brought to the physical, emotional and also mental health levels, as I said. The thing about resilience, because I already tell you that I don't like to fall into frivolity with these issues either, because there are really people... Of course, falling into a depression is not easy, falling into an anxiety disorder, in an anxiety situation is not easy and requires attention by professionals. That's right. I mean that resilience is very good, that we can have a family environment that can help us is very good, but there are situations where obviously care is required by professionals, doctors or psychologists, and specialists who are located in the Osakidetza network. Therefore, it is not about resilience, but it is about much more and giving these people the attention that is required. We are even talking about issues that require even pharmacological attention. I mean, it's not easy to get out, as I told you, I imagine that you in your environment have also had the opportunity to have situations like these, and by the way also the pandemic, and it's not easy to get out of a depressive state. One thing I think is an episode of sadness or grief... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... situations of these, and also about the pandemic, and it is not easy to get out of a depressed state. One thing I think is an episode of sadness or punctual punishment, which can happen to all of us, and another thing is what is already said to fall into a process of depression or anxiety that requires, as I say, the attention of specialized services. And for not taking into account, and for not having, besides, in... It should be borne in mind that people are particularly vulnerable. It's just that there are many older people who have really been alone throughout this pandemic. And there's a lot of family network... for in many cases there has not been, Mr. Aiartza. And that has had consequences. And in young people too, in people who have had a situation of uncertainty for their work, for the possible loss of a job, for the uncertainty of the future, what is going to happen. And now the economic consequences are there too. That is why, from the group I represent, it seemed important to us to make an analysis of the mental and emotional health situation following the pandemic; to be able to strengthen mental health care resources; also to address the possible shortage of professionals, which I believe we all know to exist; to take measures in the field of prevention and health promotion to avoid issues related to mental health; and, on the other hand, to increase the places related to mental care, which are agreed with the historical territories. I believe that we are proposing reasonable measures on the part of our group. Some agree with the other two groups, but I regret that the parties that support the Government, both the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, do not move at the same time that they will remain vigilant, that resources already exist. Well, I believe that the situation we have experienced, and in which we are now, requires a deeper analysis; and, of course, taking those measures that may be necessary, which is that action is necessary, cannot be taken by saying that Osakidetza will remain vigilant to my humble understanding. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Garrido, you haven't heard me in the first speech, either. I recognise that the original amendment we tabled was the same as in the June debate. It's true. But I told him that from the beginning we valued the difference in perspective posed by Elkarrekin Podemos, and that is why we transferred from the beginning the possibility of arriving at a transaction. I've read you the summary here, I haven't gone to the concretion. Although I have been long in the exhibition, to make the points clear, there were more issues. I have read a summary that I think is quite broad, and I also think that it is difficult for some group in this House to say that they do not agree with each and every one of the points we have raised. My regret was that I was unable to materialise it in a text that we voted on today, because I would like to see it. I am telling you that it would possibly be a text in which there was not a single vote against, nor a single vote against. I repeat again: the difference, which Mr Aiartza has also pointed out to you, not only temporary, because there is a recognition that the one who put on the table at this session was Elkarrekin Podemos and then EH Bildu made the shortcut through a motion, as a result of interpellation. But there's also another important difference, no matter how much you don't like to hear it, Mrs. Garde. And it's that they re-emphasize the need to do a specific study – I'm going to explain myself – as if psychological conditions were for everyone less equal for Basque citizenship. No, no, If the psychological, mental health and emotional health conditions are the same here in Kuala Lumpur, Murcia, Albacete, Badajoz and Bordeaux. And in Bordeaux. They're the same. I repeat again: the difference is, and that is what we have to focus on, not on putting artificial txapelas. In the possibility of responding to citizens through public services, it is conditioned by the geographical scope where we were born or lived. Of course I do. And the development of these public services. So, you follow, once again, in: no, it is necessary to do that specific study for (...). There is even a study of the UPV with other universities in Spain. There are studies done by different (associations?) They're not worth anything? Shall we throw them out? We threw them away. No, no, No, no. And it is that, moreover, they are coincident studies, which give conclusions that coincide. For it must also show us that the Basques in this we are also like a person of Albacete, even if it hurts us. Even if it hurts us. But it's that in mental health we're just like a person from Tokyo, in case he doesn't want Albacete's comparison. That's right. From that moment on, what we have to do is put our public services into action. And, hey, it seems wonderful to me that there are people here who want to say, no, it's just that they don't move. But how do we move? Hey, government agreement. The government agreement signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party in August 2020 takes place at a time when confinement has already passed, when we already have the recommendations of international bodies, where there are even studies done. And it picks up, I think literally, just like my memory fails a little bit, "special emphasis on mental health." Government program that comes months later. The new mental health strategy. Isn't that really moving? Isn't that really moving? Listen, you remember, and here is an answer to the People's Party, I think to Mr Barrio, in a question that is asked about that strategy, in which the Department in the strategy, in the plan of the Government of Spain, in which it comes to say: "The strategy of 2010 was also the result of that it had begun with a plan..." For we are following the logical scope, the logical sequence. Listen, look, in the action plan that is being proposed and promoted by the Ministry of Health, the Basque Government has participated directly, as in the governments of other autonomous communities, giving its... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of action that is being proposed and promoted by the Ministry of Health, has directly participated the Basque Government, as in the governments of other autonomous communities, giving their experiences. And even, as can be seen in the answers given to her by the counselor, much of Euskadi's strategy can be seen in the very experiences raised there. What draws my attention is that there is a recognition that progress is being made outside of here and not in this House. And not in this House. I think that sometimes, sometimes, when a good agreement arises, that I believe this, what Mr Aiartza and I had proposed, is a good agreement... Just as we fall in love with what we write; I don't believe it, I don't believe it. I think it was really a good deal. So good, no one would have voted against that initiative today. Well, I think we need to get away from the vertigos. I believe that when we come up with a text that can be good for Basque citizens, because it is better to adopt it, it is better to bring it to this House, to vote on it, than to remain at the end in a defence of the essences. We are going to have time, I think we are going to have time to develop those agreements, and besides, agreements that are logical; I say it again. Because we are working on this very thing, and with this I conclude, in different areas. And in one of them, Elkarrekin Podemos and the Socialist Party are partners, and we share those same views. It doesn't have to cost us so much to bring them here. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u54	Thank you, ma'am. One detail first, Mrs Garrido, Mrs Garde, the basic theory of negotiation: they have to move both. "It's that you don't move, it's that you don't move." Man, this is dynamic, it's not static. It is clear that we will be discussing this issue further. And, Mrs. Garde, as far as I can see, you're going to be there in your theory. Sounds good to me; logically, it's legitimate. I too know approaches close to the scheme we are advocating. I'm going to read you some little notes from a writing you'll probably also know, from mental health professionals. "People have more capacity for coping and psychological resistance than some seem to assume. This strategy to claim services has dangerous consequences, such as psychiatricizing normal human reactions, convincing the population that their discomfort needs technical help that mitigates discomfort or indignation, supplanting the solidarity support of other people. Let us not forget that professionals know of diseases, of serious mental health problems, of life and its anguish, no more than any other citizen. At this uncertain time, the responsibility of professionals and the media is to give an adequate response to real needs, in no way, repeatedly threaten with epidemics of psychological suffering that really end up overflowing mental health services and diverting them from their care priorities." I subscribe to those words. I also want to do an analysis, if you'll allow me. I'd like to make an analysis – and even if I don't allow it – about other elements of your new time theory. First element: a thorough diagnosis must be made today. A thorough diagnosis must be made, as if Osakidetza were not constantly being tested: analysis... as has been commented... analysis, studies and reports of the Mental Health Advisory Council and other studies, and applying the conclusions to their care practice. But no. No, we have to stop and make a thorough diagnosis of paralysis by analysis. Secondly, the need to go hand in hand with the agents involved. Very important, indeed. What I hope is that your agents involved will be treated a little better than me, right?, that I am also an agent involved in this parliamentary issue. And well, I received yesterday his massive mailing, in plan: these are my two red lines, and let you know; of his initiative. All right, I'll get the idea. I'm getting the idea. And although I do not know why, and referring to how it will treat the agents involved, I believe that the agents will treat them according to certain indications, in the face of the general interest. Use of data: WHO guidelines. I can't find anyone who knows your WHO guidelines; give us any more clues. More information: budget data. On June 22, the Naiz newspaper, a well-known medium in budgetary matters, collected an interview that they do to you. Title: "EH Bildu asks Lakua to reverse the decline in investment in mental health." It states that you consider it serious that in the last decade the mental health target in Osakidetza has fallen by 10%. I go to the last decade, ten years, 2012 included: total mental health, total mental health, 169.7 million euros. I check the whole sequence, I go to 2021, today: total mental health, 189.9 million euros; in ten years, an increase of more than 20 million euros. In ten years it is not reduced by 10%, it is increased by more than 10%. I thought you should have been wrong, or maybe the Naiz specialists. No, there's no mistake. The most serious thing is that you had that data before. I had given them to him... I see here the Department, the signature of the Sailburu... They had been given the Sailburu two weeks earlier. Two weeks earlier. In any case, I already understand what this is about your theory of the new time: artifice, paralysis, partisanism and false data. Mrs. Garde, good foundation for your new time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u55	Thank you, Atarz... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...partisanship and false data. Mrs. Garde, good foundation for your new time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. It's over and next we'll vote for Mrs Garde Ramirez's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u57	So it's not accepted. Together we will vote the original text of Podemos-Mingerbe as well as the other. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u58	So it's not accepted. We can vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters, 33; the opponents are 39; abscessions, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u59	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in conferences, 73; votes given, 73; supporters, 39; contraries, 34; Absences, 0; white; 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u60	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Carmelo Barroja, a member of the Basque Groups of Popular-Chapula-Ciudados, announced on the special plan of action which has been announced in the primary attention. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Two weeks ago we were discussing, she presented an inquiry into the Primary Care Action Plan that had been announced by the Minister of Health, Mrs Darias, after a meeting they had had, a first meeting of Primary Care, challenges and opportunities was called, in the Canary Islands, which had brought together the autonomous health advisers to address a very important debate. A debate aimed, of course, at the future challenges of primary care in Spain, which they held in early October, I think, on 1 October. There was a statement, we remembered it in the process of the interpellation the other day both the counselor and I. A statement saying that this Comprehensive Primary Care Action Plan will be oriented towards an integral approach to the most frequent health problems, the clinical practice, centered on the person and the community, I believe that these are the broad lines, the major issues, of course, not only at the level of the Ministry, but also the autonomous communities themselves are already in charge and doing so considering the social determinants of health, the improvement of the diagnostic resolution capacity, the strengthening of the longitudinality of care. It would take into account professional growth, the boost of information systems, digitisation, promotion of innovation, research, adaptation to training and human resources – a very important issue, of course, that it would have to have reference and meaning after, in the Primary Care Action Plan – and effectiveness, sustainability and quality in Primary Care. Well, great principles, but focused on what? To a common strategy. Regardless of the autonomous strategies themselves, the function of the competences, and logically in the already historical development of them, but one more step, one more step in the possibility of action. There was also specific talk in the plenary of the Human Resources Commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which is very important, the updating and adaptation of health training specialized in primary care. That is to say, very important issues that are where the state is most competent. Of course, professional, scientific, social, political organizations were referred to working on all of this too. And, well, to prevent the disease, to improve the efficiency of the National Health System, where we integrate, to give answers to the current and possible health crises. I believe that, indeed, all this has taught us that we need to be better prepared, that it is logically an exercise that in relation to what can happen at a given time with a pandemic or a health crisis of whatever characteristics, right? And the recognition that, well, besides that things have not been done wrong, that they have been done well, that primary care is, well, also in Spain because it is one of its signs of identity of the National Health System. Picking up a little bit the effort that all communities have been able to make on this issue, haven't they? And then, we talked about that, actually, and that you could keep working and keep working... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and then we talked about it, actually, and that there might have been... could continue to work and will continue to work. Well, there are many issues to talk about about primary care, that is, and that could be part of other debates, which we will certainly have because of primary care we have to continue to talk about, in addition to the commitments of the Government, the need to evolve and the changes that need to be made. But in any case, I meant in my inquiry and now in my motion the supraautonomic plan, the plan of... announced by the ministry, the plan of the declaration... And the motion I submitted is a consequence of that questioning. I also presented it to the Basque Government's abstention, to the Basque Government's abstention within the Inter-Territorial Council on this issue. We, for that very reason, we, regardless of some evaluations, consider it very important. Without wanting to be... discuss or discuss the meaning of abstention. It's been explained. Well, now... But, in any case, we still consider that active participation in the preparation of the action plan on primary care to be essential. And we consider it essential. Let us hope that abstention from that plan will not prevent active participation. We understand that no, also for the agreement we have reached in relation to the work of the Interterritorial Council and the very... the link to the primary care action plan itself, which does not prevent such active participation. We consider it essential, as other autonomous communities have considered it essential. Because the competences of the Basque Autonomous Community are clear, they are very clear, they are there, and we develop it, and the department and the government are working on it and will have to continue to do so. We will help or criticize, we will intervene to the extent possible. But, well, in any case, the competencies are clear. But the possibilities of strengthening the role of primary care are also in the hands of the Spanish Government. We have also seen that they can be in the hands of that reinforcement. In other words, we understand that it is very important, very interesting to commit ourselves in this area, that of the Ministry of Health mainly and others that have to do with State areas, with specialized university training or those that have to do with social security matters. So it is true that the possibility of strengthening primary care is not only within our own competence, but also within the competence of State administration institutions. It is very important, therefore, to take advantage of all the opportunities given to us, all the opportunities, to strengthen primary care. And, of course, the possibility of developing our own powers, but also, as I have said, of developing the possibilities for action by the state authorities in this area. And today more than ever, besides, after the pandemic by COVID-19. We have been able to speak with leaders of autonomous communities in the field of health and we see that there is a great margin, a great margin of action in the supra-autonomic field in favour of primary care. In the areas of... they are on the table, which I believe will have to be discussed, of course, in the Committee on Resources of the Interterritorial Council or in the elaboration of the training and accreditation plan itself, as we have said many times and as has been said, in the creation of new teaching units, the flexibility of accreditation of centres, in strengthening the role of tutors, let us say nothing in the increase in the number of places of family and community medicine in the MIR call, also in the development of new specialties. There is on the table the creation of the emergency specialty, in order to avoid the transfer of residents after the completion of the training. Or the development of something as essential, as important as the specialty of family and community nursing and pediatric primary care nurses and defining these jobs. I mean, there are a lot of issues. There are others that also have to do with the possibility that the central institutions, the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Health, will address technological issues, health devices, and health products that can also benefit the autonomous communities from State action in relation to, not funding, but the fact that they contribute with resources already material to the development also of primary care. That is, in that sense, there is a lot of acting capacity and it is put on the table. The approval of non-Community healthcare professionals, of what has already been said here, is also on the table, because that also strengthens primary care. Speed up approval. Royal Decree 459/2010, which regulates the conditions. Royal Decree 967/2014. Talk and raise these issues. Or facilitate areas of de-bureaucratisation. There is also talk about family doctors, asking the National Institute of Social Security to make it easier for the doctor to temporarily incapacity or to remove from the regulations the obligation for the doctor to sign all kinds of health reports if there are professionals from other categories qualified to do so. For example, nurses, in relation to the situation of dependency. Well, there are issues that you can talk about, that you can talk about, to strengthen, of course, primary care, many issues. And that they do not depend on our only competences, but are in the competences of other administrations. And, in that sense, it was our motion, that is, to understand that we can also work actively on the elaboration of that specific action plan on primary care. We have tabled an amendment... We have reached an agreement with the groups that support the Government. They presented an amendment of totality, logically, mentioning what I also did, to the competition field, well, they also picked up the activity of their own primary care plan, logically it is important and we have to develop it, we have to fulfill it and we have to elaborate a new one when it touches therefore also powerful and with the lessons learned. But also, of course, the active participation of the department, logically, within the Interterritorial Council and including this specific action plan on primary care. Defending... and we have therefore put, and I think it is important, the continuous increase of places of specialty of family and community medicine, something that is... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... defending and putting, which I believe is important, the continuous increase of places of specialty of family and community medicine, something that is clear in the call MIR, as well as the creation of new specialties. I finish with the amendments, the amendments are interesting, the full amendments tabled by the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Group We can, although they are more part of the debate of our own powers, understand, eh?, some in the budgetary field, clearly (?) Hernandez and another in the area of the development of primary care and Mrs Ubera, Mr Hernandez asking for 25% of health expenditure, because there are the budgets, indeed, we are now going to (?) These issues, and I suppose, will be a line where all of us from the opposition will also try to strengthen health spending on primary care, that is to say, the approach, which logically we wanted to refer to the Spanish plan, the action plan, the primary care action plan announced in that declaration specifically on primary care, and Mrs Ubera, because in response to the internal needs of primary care, the identification of problems, needs, the drafting of a report, interesting issues, but I believe that they are the result of an already general debate, logically that has been raised, which you have also discussed on the subject, but I say again, I was interested in the specific action plan for primary care, that declaration of the health departments of the autonomous communities and that it can bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u63	Mr Barrio, we believe that our amendment was, of course, intended to include issues of Basque competence, but we also referred to issues of state competence and issues that were dealt with at that interterritorial council and at that summit from which certain conclusions were drawn. But we did not talk, we did not deal, we were a little lost with his original initiative, because we thought that basically what the text contained was asking the Basque Government to participate in that interterritorial council, which we understand to participate, and therefore we include those elements and there has been no negotiation. We, with the agreement that you have reached, which we have not participated in, have informed us this morning, we have no special glues, but we are going to make a critical abstention, because we are also critical of the conclusions of that interterritorial council. It is true that we are part of the Government, and in the previous debate reference has been made to the fact that the Socialist Party and we are part of that same space, of that same Government, which does not mean that we have specific differences. And in this case in this matter we have them and we are very attentive to the critical opinion that the public health defense federations have drawn at state level, and therefore, we think that what is lacking, we agree with them, with these kinds of statements, is to put the issues into practice. We repeat a little what we have also discussed in the previous debate, because some of the issues that have already been concluded were already within the strategic framework for primary and community care, I am talking about, were also in the conclusions of the famous Reconstruction Commission of the Congress of Deputies, but we think that we need to put them into practice there. We agree with the approach of increasing the number of places of the family and community medicine specialty, the call of the MIR. We also agree on the creation of new specialties, we proposed it in the amendment that we have tabled on your initiative. Therefore, this is the explanation why we are going to... we are going to abstain from the compromise that has come with the groups that support the Basque Government in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u65	Good morning. We have nothing to do for the present, Mr. Barrio, we have to join the medical Committee in the Spanish State. I mean, what if we didn't participate in the Landland Medical Committee? Would something happen if we didn't participate and develop our manual as a whole? I mean, we have exclusive handbags in our health, it's the agreement in Guernica that makes them. And I do not say, Mr. Barrius, founded on the constitution of the Euskal Republic, but upon the State of Guernica. Finally, the wants of the people, of our people, of our reality, of the right of securing health, of taking decisions from our reality, right? I desire the best of Spain, Mr. Barrio, the best; but I want the best of the Basque Country, and above all I wish that we, in all parts, should make decisions together with our countrymen and our countrymen, instead of making decisions on us outside. Of course, that doesn't remove coordination. I mean that there are areas of co-ordination with other countries, and that knowledge has space to share. That's also fundamental, and there's more to the emergency managers or circumstances, like COVID-19's pandemia. It's another thing that we're making decisions instead of making decisions, and we don't share that. Unfortunately, Spain has made decisions in the pandema in most cases... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Bring me another one. And we don't share that. Unfortunately, Spain has made decisions in the Olympics in most cases, because the Spanish Government won't let you make decisions. Because, in some cases, I've been refused to make up my mind to make decisions in such complex and complicated situations. Well, today, Mr. Barrio planned for us on our first-class attention committee, that when you're in the specific committee that you're making, you're going to have an active role, you're confronted by new challenges, and you're going to have some new health specialists around which you're going to need. We're not gonna be the kind of role that's supposed to play on that committee. We'd like to ask him once more, and we'd like to take advantage of this discussion, in order to be a proactative of the first class of attention, not to be rejected, to bring first-class attention to the first line of the political agenda, to put the focus on EA, in our real reality, in the countries, in the sanitarian institutions, but always looking at the first class of attention. So we wanted to put the focus down with all the corrections we've applied to this discussion. Downstairs, not up there. We wanted to put the focus on the nearest area to the citizen, not the farthest zone. We wanted to put the focus on the access to the members of the region, the integrated sanitary organizations. But first of all, looking at attention, because unfortunately, we still look at hospitals in integrated sanitarian institutions. And it's all right and it's necessary to talk about the local committees. We need the government's plans. But it is time to pass beyond these plans and documents into action. We're late. A year ago, November 12th, we discussed our first attention right here. And what's changed in a year? What have we fixed? I know we're not all on the same level of responsibility, but what have we done? Words aren't enough anymore. And to face the reality that we have, to change, medium, and length of time, we must consider the demography, the somnomical characters, the flow of migration, the fields, and so forth, the necessary organizations, to complete the equipment, to guide new profiles, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. After all, we're all in theory to structure the communal attention we're all proclaiming, starting from the same health fund, finally to offer the people a health service, easy access and quality. And that's short, medium and long for a short term. From the lower ground, offering social attention, becoming healthhouses, the hospitals to serve primary attention, to serve the communal attention. It is not as yet that the primary attention of the hospital has become a secretary, and that the primary attention is dissolved by suppressed attention and the concept of primary attention. We need to change our eyes. Focus, we need to change the focus, because what do we need gastename? What about Bilbo? And on the left? What about in the debate? And in the Bidaso? Do we have the same needs everywhere? Of course we need a basis, but in every country we don't need the same ones. However, before we reach the middle term, if we look at the short term, we have so many challenges that we are late and we should solve them. How many villages have they run out of pediatrica? How many villages have the medical hours been reduced? How many months have they been without a doctor? How many continuous attention zones have been closed, the hours have been restricted? How many cuts have we got in the EAE region and all the integrated sanitarian organizations? First class attention is insufferable. As I said before, there's no first-class attention. He's become an emergency attention and has become an attention to the management of COVID19. Everything still needs to be handled in the first instance. That's what they've got from above. A machine, however, lengthens their practice to follow the chronics, to watch out concerts, and to perform the workshops of education which are in the communitarian care. They're still in COVID19, handling COVID19. And what about all the other things that COVID19 is not? What is it, ladies and gentlemen? The health department and Osacence have not yet been able to determine the reorganization and structure of the new phase when we left medical emergency. We made our proposal here a few months ago in order to arrange COVID19 in another way, as in several European countries, and to perform the role of Osarides himself. But it can't be, because we're still handling covida from a clinical point of view. They're still vaccinating. And now the flu too. Last year, the ventilation of the flu became different, for instance, the Gaste name. In other countries, the vaccination is not the only case for nurses. Here we are. But the nurses aren't strong enough for the health homes and no more nurses. In the ambulances, administrative appointments have an enormous supply of work. They're creating great tension moments. There's a line coming up. And the villagers practice with them. They pay for it. What sort of posters do they have? What doctors can't see ends up in nurses' hands. And it's becoming very common to the nurse to see light processes. Besides, first class attention is becoming, for instance, the secretary of the Gastés' hospitals. And specialists are demanding evidence from the first-class people to do the evidence they have to do, the electrocutions, etc. The first attention in the first wave was to strengthen the hospitals in the second wave. Now the professionals in the hospitals won't go first, so they can get their first attention? To strengthen the ambulances? Or we don't have the changes in order and working... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... aren't hospital professionals going to take first precaution to strengthen the ambulances, or do we not make changes in order and working? The nurses' coordinators can't take it anymore. For instance, Zamarahs has resigned because they can't solve it from the management of nurses. The day is spent with fire, and the fire cannot continue to burn. We knew him, the first class of attention is quite undone; it is drowned. COVID-19 has become attention to emergency management. And I repeat: And what about the other diseases, health, global health, what's going on in EAE? So, to begin with, short-term, and looking at the new stage of the pandemae, we need brave decisions to dedicate the first class of attention to the things we have to do, and bring the management of COVID-19 back to one other way, counting with different professionals, strengthening our equipment by entering different profiles. In the first grade, we need investment in class. Maybe it's time for people to invest in, and it's not work, it's time to preview buildings. We need contracts, decent contracts: One year. We need more professionals, more nurses. It's time to invest in people. And when we do this short term, it is the time to look at the medium and length of time, to transform our public health system, and above all to guarantee the health of the people. We need a public health system that's ready for the citizen. That's why, Madrid, all right, all right, but here, and that's our manual.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u66	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u67	It's our jurisdiction, and it's a plan for action. Because the documents are fine, but if the documents don't go to practice, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u69	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I will point out that I will focus mainly on the issue that has been raised for discussion by the proposing group, which is nothing other than the participation of the Basque Government's Department of Health in the elaboration of the specific Action Plan on Primary Care published by the Ministry of Health within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. Because then there have been other groups who, through their amendments, have raised with us other debates other than roundabouts, such as point two of the Elkarrekin Podemos amendment or the total amendment of EH Bildu. It is not that I do not want to debate, but that we have already discussed what they are proposing again in these amendments, and there are already agreements adopted by a large majority of this House of the Basque Parliament on how to address the continuous improvement of primary care in Euskadi, because what they contain there (?) Today Podemos and EH Bildu is the same as you have been putting forward in other debates, among others, in the motion resulting from the questioning of EH Bildu of measures to deal with primary care and discussed on 11 November 2020, and in the non-law proposal concerning the creation of a paper to agree on measures to bring the primary care of the public health system into line with the new times, in collaboration with experienced experts and industry agents, which we discussed on 20 May. And I was telling you that in addition to having discussed it, this Parliament has already voted on all these issues, and I would like to remind you that there is an agreement of 11 November 2020 on the measures to be taken in primary care, a text that we tabled in the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party on two points, one on the context of the pandemic and the other on a general basis, with 14 specific commitments and that they should not have felt any madness or evil, because there was not a single vote against, not a single vote against this amendment. Therefore, with regard to the issues raised by EH Bildu and Podemos in those amendments, which are not the issue raised by the People's Party in the motion we are dealing with today, I refer to the debates and agreements that we have already had and adopted in this Parliament to improve primary care in Euskadi, which is an objective that the Socialists and this Government share. And in what we are with a clear road map that also includes the strategic framework for primary and community care adopted within the Inter-Territorial Health Council, which was also drawn up with the participation and input of the Department of Health of the Basque Government. And as it cannot be otherwise, also with Euskadi's primary care strategy, with seven strategic lines and 35 concrete actions. From there and returning to the question raised by the People's Party, as you will understand, to whom we are both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, it seems to us perfect that the institutions work together in the area of their competence to offer the most complete response to citizens, as expressed in the reply to the motion. We start from a common diagnosis, primary care is the basic link in the promotion and defense of health and health care, and we find a shortage of medical professionals specialized in primary care and community health. And I believe that the commitment made by the Ministry of Health to promote within the Interterritorial Health Council the first meeting of primary care was a good one, as it is a good one that the Department of Health of the Basque Government has participated in contributing its experience. And as will be a success in the elaboration and adoption of an action plan that captures such experiences and new ones that may arise. In this respect, we have tabled the amendment signed by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which led us to sign a compromise amendment, this time with the People's Group, in which, on the basis of respect for the competence of the people and the defence of the plan on primary care defined and explained at the beginning of the legislature within the framework of the action programme of the Department of Health, we appreciate the active participation of the department within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and its committees in the various topics concerned, including the specific action plan on primary care. And we added something that seems interesting to us, such as the defense of... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... commissions on the various topics concerned, including the specific action plan on primary care. And we add something that seems interesting to us, as is the defense of the continuous increase of places of the specialty of Family and Community Medicine in the call MIR, as well as the creation of new specialties, as, by the way, is being done from the Ministry of Health. Because, just as Councilwoman Sagardui brought us in her response to the inquiry, the serious difficulties with which we find ourselves for the reliefs in these places are not attributable to the Basque administration or to the rest of the autonomous communities or to the present Ministry of Health, but rather to the fact that it was not contemplated in the planning of previous calls. As the Ministry of Health has recently reported, in the current call 2021-2022, the offer of places amounts to 2,336, i.e. 97% of the places accredited in the specialty. Also, on 13 October, the Ministry drew up a draft ministerial order for the training programme of the specialty of Family and Community Medicine, in order to expand the teaching capacity, guaranteeing the training quality of the specialists. And with regard to new specialties, we must continue to make progress. And that's where we're at. In addition to having already planned the creation of the specialty of Child Psychiatry and Adolescents, something that, by the way, we could have spoken also in the previous point, as well as the incorporation of Legal and Forensic Medicine. I think it is good news that it has been announced by Minister Darias that Health fixes in the first trimester of 2022 the decree of new specialties, for what will be very useful (count?), at the beginning of next year, with the study on the supply and demand of specialist doctors for the horizon 2021-2035 that will estimate the health needs in the face of the retirements expected in the next decade. I believe that this is what citizens value, that among all, within the competences that each of us has assumed, we should put ourselves all in the same direction, which cannot be other than to offer solutions to the problems of our citizens. And that's where we're at. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u71	The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. Mr. Barrio, you questioned the counselor. He heard an extensive, clear, clear, crystal clear answer, and he came back at two weeks to insist on the plenary, and without much difficulty, it is true, we have arrived at a transaction that basically copies our amendment and adds a demand that the counselor has already made. I mean, we went all the way back, after two weeks, to get to the starting point. And it's okay. And although we have reiterated ourselves, let's get to the point. Look, just a year ago, Mr Rico said, in October 2020, the Health Adviser explained to us her plan of action for the legislature, and told us that, among other things, strengthening primary care was one of her main objectives for this (...). A month later, in November, a motion was tabled on which some parliamentarian seemed to him to be a serious crisis in primary care. And in that debate we tabled an amendment, which was also said by Mr Rico, which summarized in a long list of projects the commitments made by the Councilwoman in October 2020, and in which you – all the groups – abstained. In other words, they showed no disagreement that this was what had to be done in the area of primary care. Some may want something else, or some less, that is in the Lord's vineyard. But sad they didn't leave that pnl. And therefore, the Government also maintains its plans for this primary care legislature, knowing that no one is opposed to them. No one. Today it has been less than a year, and here we come back with what needs to be done, although this time it was added that it is done by the hands of others: the other autonomous communities and the Ministry. And look, no and a thousand times no. The competence lies with this country, its citizens, its government and its parliament. As the Sailburu Gotzone Sagardui has already said, I no longer think of anything new, collaborate and cooperate, whatever they want; learn and teach, everything; exchange without any problem, but elaborate to assume without further a plan, because it is done in command of an interterritorial commission, because no. And we understand that this is where your continued abstention comes from in that council. The difference between your initial proposal, Mr Barrio, and ours is that you called for participation; and we understand that you are taking part. Semantic subtle that contains a thick depth. This Parliament should not urge the Government to participate in meetings with third parties. Who are we to tell the government who he meets or who he doesn't? Especially if the meetings are to talk about one's own competences. Another thing is that we understand, it seems opportune that they do. And that's where we're at. We and, so the other day said the Sailburu, also the Department of Health. The model of interterritorial councils – and here I am going to try to generalise – or sectoral conferences, and I say this to you after a very extensive experience, is a model that initially had very good intentions and, as it was proposed, was very useful for exchanging information, coordinating cooperation. But, gradually, it has become a model in which the majority decide to do things by directly or indirectly forcing everyone to act in a homogeneous way, breaking their own skills and competences. It is not far from the time when, for example, the Inter-Territorial Health Council met to discuss football pitching. So far very well, but the conclusion that it comes to, that at best it can be a recommendation, at least for us, because the competence resides here, became practically an obligation that eventually led a judge to rely on such a recommendation in order to reject the legitimate decision of the Basque Government according to its competence. Yes to the... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to rely on such a recommendation to reject the legitimate decision of the Basque Government in accordance with its competence. Yes to the territorial councils whenever it is a question of exchanging information and experience. Yes to the interterritorial councils whenever it comes to cooperating, collaborating on common projects and improving the health system or the system you want. But not to the Inter-Territorial Council if it wants its decisions to become rubbish that devastates our competences. If you read the Canary Islands Declaration, you note that the Inter-Territorial Council is committed to drawing up an action plan on primary care. This is not wrong if it was a mere exercise of exchange of information, technical or intellectual contributions. But nowhere does it put how it's going to be done or what it means and implies its possible and future approval. Nowhere. And if the competition in primary care is from this country, what do we do next with the conclusions to which... the Declaration wants to be reached in areas such as clinical practice, diagnostic resolution capacity, professional growth, digitisation systems, innovation and research promotion, adaptation and resource formation or budgetary commitments. All of them of Euskadi's exclusive competence. Of course, there is some subject that depends on the ministry, such as the lack of professionals in training in the face of the possible avalanche of retirements. But that doesn't even require a meeting, that's what everyone knows. And the ministry will have to know how to make the decisions it understands most timely. By the way, if there is a shortage of primary care professionals it is not precisely because this ministry has not been foresight; it is because the former were not. And in any case, that is why we have accepted and added that aspect to the transaction. Hence our amendment, which has remained intact in the compromise and which comes to summarise what I mentioned to you earlier last November, which divided all the commitments made by the department in October 2020 one by one, saying now exclusively that the own plan of primary care as a whole should be defended when going to the Interterritorial Health Council and betting that it will always take part in defending the subjects of which we are competent to avoid interference. And above all, not urging the Government to participate in an Interterritorial Council that will talk about Euskadi's powers, which will already know what the Government should do to develop its powers and parliamentary commitments, but understanding that it will attend to it to exchange experiences and information. That is why we point out to the Department of Health that we understand their participation as logical, that we believe it is good to learn, teach and exchange, but that this does not become a new competitive intrusion, a new sand of our competences. And, without further ado, I am grateful for the compromise effort, which concludes in a resolution that no one questions is common sense, logical and reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing to a group that hasn't been issued for any correction, Mistto's not here. In answer time, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u73	Thank you, President. Yeah. Mr Tellería, I do the initiatives I sign when they are logical, reasonable and common sense. But in this case and in all the others, I try to make it so. And that is why I have tabled the motion to reach this agreement. And, moreover, I understood, from the very moment I kept the interpellation I thought there was an area of encounter and action and that is why I encouraged it. Good. Mrs. Ubera said that if we didn't participate, something like that wouldn't happen. If we did not participate it would be negative, it would be negative for us, because we would not take part in the decision-making that can affect us. But not by competitive invasion, but because those decisions that are made in the development of primary care, that there are many areas that are... many or some areas that are... That may be the responsibility of the central government, as we have seen, because we would not be involved in that decision-making. So, in that sense, it would be negative. And you said it's more than coordination. It is not just coordination, it is a joint action, an implementation of measures that can be taken, that can be done. We are talking about training measures or other measures in relation to these issues. I believe that, in addition, some autonomous communities have understood this well, because we have seen... Moreover, not the sign of the central government, not the political sign, but of others who have understood that this debate is important. They have already referred, before me, to the approach taken by the Madrid Community in the Inter-Territorial Council on a number of issues which do not affect autonomous competences. They're right here. And they do not affect the autonomous competences, they affect the competences of the State, that those competences of the State that can strengthen the primary care and the role of bureaucracy, the role of doctors, the role of the National Social Security System. That is, there are some issues that are right, that is, that can be raised. And that is why we have to participate, because they are identifying the needs of a supra-autonomic area, which some are there. That's why I'm happy. Because, well, Mr. Telleria, it seems like... like, I don't know, it's unimportant, unrelevant. No, no, I'm happy. Because this initiative will continue to allow us to know first hand, because, if we do not participate, because we cannot find out or we would have to find out on the other hand, but if we are going to participate actively, we will know what ideas the Basque Government proposes in relation to the development of the action plan for primary care, what possibilities there is, how to... in coordination, that is, in collaboration with other autonomous communities. And I think... I did the initiative, the interpellation, first, because... I am not going to say that it alarmed me, because there were already some arguments, but it did bother me a little with the abstention, when it seems that there was a clear majority that that could be positive. Well, it's been explained that the participation is going to be there. We have guaranteed it, moreover, through an initiative, and also by giving the impetus to that, in addition to understanding that this is reasonable. I'm satisfied. In a few months or in a few months... at the end of the year, we will logically ask what the development of that plan is, because it seems that it has to be... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... I'm satisfied. In a few months or at the end of the year we will logically ask what the development of this plan is, because it seems to have to be approved by the end of the year, let's see if it has been participated, if it is shared or not shared, and if there is anything really beneficial for our Primary Care. But I believe that what I have done is try to be proactive, and from the first moment I presented the inquiry I wanted to reach this agreement that we have reached. It may be from one wording or another, I do not know whether it will be the starting point, but I do, however, believe that we have cast some doubt on these issues. And I certainly appreciate the signing of the agreement. I think it is common sense and clear, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Anxiety team shouldn't speak a word. Uberah, representative of the EHG, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u75	Mr. Barrio, we're not against it, we're not against it. We're not against it. We're not against it. We're not against it. We're not against it. We're not against it. But what we want is for the future to decide. And what we care about right now is to put focus on Madrid, to put focus on other areas and to put our hands aside, and at the moment what is most urgent is to pass to action, to take care of it, to get rid of it somehow. And that worries us because our first attention is exhausted, because it's destroyed, a professional said, the concept of our first attention doesn't exist anymore. And that's what worries us. And we think it's time we put the focus here, put it here, and I don't know what kind of controversy. We've had a lot of discussions about our first attention, and we've brought back a lot of proposals. A proposal that we brought in November came at last from the government. And we're told that we've been abstained, so we're not against it. and here we are, as far as we can, to encourage politics and assistance. And even when the differences must be brought to the desktop, for the sake of the different grades of difference. And nothing happens, it's important to argue, but sometimes when it's reviewed, or when it's discussed, isn't it? That's why he gets sick. And no, he's healthy, he's healthy. But it's not our intention against, against, against. No, it's for the desktop, it's for the purpose, and, as far as possible, it's mostly in practice. These pretty words that are in the strategy and documents carried to practice. You often see that when you go through the practice there are disagreements, don't you? And his first attention, unfortunately, is drowned, choked, and he is in great need. And now we see it as a solution, which is what we care about, we want to sell a motorcycle as a solution. Online, platforms, applications, phone calls. I remember a citizen called me "jo, the dermatologist asked me to send me a photo" recently, dermatologist. So that's a good instrument, but you can't replace other things, you have to have them. And besides, we are told that those who prefer to be citizens are called by telephonies, and there is no demand. There may be some of them, of course, but the people want to see their doctors, they want to see their guests. They want attention to the first rank they knew before, and which has improved and adapted them to new times. Look, it's called professional health health health in an ambulance now, for instance, the workshops of education which they offer within the communal attention, for example, to leave tobacco to be done by applications. Or a organization called Sanofi is offering a platform to unload their diabetic patients in order to direct them to that platform, that's where they'll have a nurse in 24 hours, and this is a private organization that the service will be free. And that's what he's doing. And that's the primary attention we want? What's going on? I don't know if you're watching television at home now, but I don't care if you're watching a movie or a program, you see a few commercials. The most private health service? How much of the private health service are you offering? What's happening right now? I don't know, it should make us think a little bit, right? And we think, especially at this moment, that we must go to the plan of action, but in accordance with our reality, which passes through our countries in the country, producing fields with professionals, and listening to them from the reality of everydayity. And we've been trying to put the seal there for today. And for this purpose, space must be created for the interaction, not only in Madrid, below, with the headmasters of the ambulances, with the responsible for the integrated sanitarian institutions, with all. We have at last shown what protrudes are, and we must face these privations, and politics must be changed. For everybody's health, for professional health. And to guarantee and maintain our public health system. And we're in a very delicate moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u77	Thank you, Madam President. That we're at a delicate moment I think we've known for quite some time. Ever since a pandemic that nobody expected came into our lives... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... We've known for a long time. Since a pandemic that no one expected came into our lives, and made normal health care at all less normal. That is what led us, for example, to the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group to address that reality when we had the opportunity to seek an agreement to govern Euskadi, in a scenario that I believe is the most difficult one that has had to govern any institution in recent times. Not only in the field of health: in the economic field, in the field of employment. And with that premise we went. The problem is that there have been groups here who have wanted to sell to citizens that the aid abnormality was the fault of governments, not a pandemic. There have been groups here who have wanted to move, over and over again, that if a citizen could not go to a review or could not go to his primary care doctor, it was because cuts were being made from the Government, trying to obviate what was happening everywhere. In the rest of the autonomous communities, where some of the parties that have said that also govern, they also govern, and what happened in other areas. Well, that's recent past; now we're in another area. We are in the process of restoring normality of care, as far as possible; let us say everything. Let us say everything, because it is very easy to come to this Parliament to say, in every area, that the bad is the fault of the government and the good is the fault of the citizenry. Man, boy, not one thing or the other. Have we had a situation of abnormality in the provision of public services? Of course. Of course. It's just, it would be ridiculous for me to come up here and say no; of course I do. But, as ridiculous as that would be, as going up here to say that all this has been the fault that the Basque Government, or whatever government, has not been foresight. That's the problem. That is the problem, that I do not go up here to say such questions, because they seem ridiculous to me, no more or less. We are back on that standard of care, and preferably on primary care, which has been one of the most touched. It has been one of the most affected in this area of the pandemic, and we need to talk about it normally. And do you believe that the groups that we support the government, the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, are not 100% in this area? Do you really believe that any citizen is going to believe that our goal is to make this go wrong? Well, no. It's just, to me, come on, from Perogrullo. But that was not the debate, moreover; that debate we had already. I have told you, Mr Tellería has told you: the debate and a vote. And here we brought two points, with a series of concrete measures then deployed. No votes against. No vote against how we had to regain primary care; no vote against. And that's what the government has been implementing. Now it's wrong. Now to follow that road map that no one voted against in this Parliament is wrong? What are we going to do, the occurrence of the minute? I just didn't get it in that area. Because I think we need to be serious. And to me it does seem very important, it seems very important that the Basque Government, that the Government of Spain, and that the government of all the autonomous communities go hand in hand in this. Of course, that each in the defense of his or her area of competence. Of course. Of course. You also have to speak it naturally, without problem, but all together hand in hand. Because here things are not fixed – I say again – by putting a txapella to the problem. No, no, no, that's no magic solution, no matter how many groups come out here, every week, to say it. That's not true. We're not that different. No, even if we want to perceive ourselves as such. In this we have to go hand in hand, as in many other things, because what citizenship is waiting for is that we give it concrete and complete answers. Complete. And when one institution has one jurisdiction, another institution has another jurisdiction. And, just aligning it, we can give that complete answer. I, Mr Barrio, therefore welcome the agreement that we have reached. I think it's a good deal for the citizenry. I believe that all bodies cooperate in the different institutional areas is good, and I also believe that we must continue to make progress in these levels of specialization in the field (...), which is what is reflected in the amendment. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u79	Good. Thank you very much, Madam President. One minute, because this doesn't work for much longer. We have simply negotiated with the People's Party, which is the only one who has called us to speak. And I did, at least, want to give an explanation of vote to the other amendments. Without reproaching anything, but, Mr Hernández, we will vote no, because, not only does he urge, we have said that we are not in favour of urging, because the Government will decide what it wants to do, but he also tells the Government what approach it must take. And man, the criterion will be, in any case, whatever it is, it will go with the criterion it has, that it is nothing other than that which the Government itself committed itself at the beginning of the legislature, and which was then ratified in the middle of this Parliament; the criterion of primary care. And, Mrs. Ubera, you've made a mix of "where you go, apples bring me", "taking advantage of the Deba passing through Bergara", and you've put it in "stacking your sardine", or said in Latin, "stacking, sardinen propriam". Deep down, he doesn't even say what to do. He tells us, in one of his new occurrences, how he wants to be designed what needs to be done. I'll repeat it again... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... He tells us, in one of his new occurrences, how he wants what needs to be done designed. I'll repeat it again. What needs to be done is decided by the Government, which is why it is the Government. And what the government has to do brought us here in October. And what needs to be done, the government came here, and you tabled an amendment... a GNP. And this Parliament has decided what needs to be done. It is this Parliament that must ultimately tell the government. Although... And the only thing we've told the government is what you said you're going to do... Phenomenal. Because he also said that, man, that you are to collaborate, to cooperate. And, man, I've looked at him, I mean, uff... I pinched, but I was awake. I mean, jolin, this is changing... But I don't believe it. Forgive me, but I don't believe it. And then he said he wants primary care like the one he used to know. And my question is, "Before when?". I know you, and I've seen you here nine years. It's not long before. I don't know how much sooner. But the nine-year-old has dedicated himself to giving birth to everything the Department of Health or the Department of Health does. Everything. You'll tell me how soon, to talk to the counselor and tell her what you need to get the primary care back from before. I'll just finish with the following. Today, again, an opinion study of Basque society, of citizenship, not of a parliamentarian or of 30, of the citizens who have valued Osakidetza at 7.5 out of 10 has emerged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the half-directional amendments signed by the Basque Populara Céranos, Basque Socialists, and Euzébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 21. Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u81	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, Amania Martín Graye, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Misto group, as to the distribution of subjugations for communications. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Myst, Mrs Martínnez, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Today we got up with two very important news. "Lehendakari calls for the discreet weaving of an educational pact that strengthens the euskera." Again, the euskera presented in society as the key to our education. And, on the other hand, another news: "Mr. Urkullu imposes euskera on the local police." This is what came out in the press. Euskera and more Euskera, despite the fact that even the courts consider the requirements and profiles that are needed for almost everything that arises to be discriminatory to the Castilian. Euskera also to prevent ultra-rightists and Spaniards from slicing in our police. That is what Bildu proclaims, demonstrating once again that for these people the Basque language is a differentiating element rather than cultural enrichment. We deduce: everyone who does not speak Basque is of the far right. There's that. For decades the promotion of the use of Basque has been one of the backbones of the action of the Basque Government, one of the signs of identity of Basque nationalism and independence. Since those last years of the 1970s, even before, the Basque language has been presented in society as a victim against the predominantly Castilian. An approach that is still in force today, after years of promoting educational models only in Basque, of excessive demands for language profiles in public offers of employment, of investing in positive discrimination in the Basque language, of public spending on the euskaldunisation of the whole population, and also of subsidies to the media for the use of this language. We are not surprised that, at this point in the film, we continue to debate about the Basque language, as if it were a repressed language, a victim of external aggression, of a society that, according to us, gives priority to the use of Spanish and Spanish. We falsify reality, and thus justify any kind of action for the promotion of the Basque. The strategy is very simple: sustained victimism over time, justification served. This has been proven this week when in the debate of an unbridled non-law proposal by Bildu to pay with public money for euskera courses in private companies, the proposing group came to claim for the Basque language policies similar to those developed to fight against inequality between men and women. And the example of what happens in companies is symptomatic of what is happening in the street, in society. Large amounts of money invested by this Government in the promotion of a certain language and social resistance, on the other hand, absolutely natural, to such imposition. Change the strategy and use the "please, yes; by force, no." Companies, of course, pursue their own profit, do business and guarantee stability and a decent wage to their workers. And if you understand that your language is Spanish, it will be because you see no business possibility in Basque, despite the insistent campaign in favor of this language, watered with a lot of public money flow. The media are all private companies, except EITB, which is an entity at the service of power. To be more concrete, at the service of Basque nationalism, which takes almost half the budget of the entire Department of Culture. We are talking about 161 million euros for next year, money of all for the benefit of a few. And, as companies that are, the media decides what their contents are, their particular editorial bet, the language with which they relate to the population. And, despite the repeated efforts of this government and the previous ones, including that of the Socialist Party, the biggest, most seen and most heard are those who publish and broadcast primarily in Spanish... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... including that of the Socialist Party, those with the highest number, the most seen and the most heard are those who publish and broadcast primarily in Spanish. That is so, despite the injection of huge amounts of money for the consolidation of media in Basque. EUR 4 million in the current budgets, to which is added EUR 2.3 million for a specific diary, such as Berria, with an ideological bet, moreover, very concrete, as we all know very well. In the current year alone, EUR 6.5 million is injected to subsidise the media in Basque. Of course, with zero success, as we can all see. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's-Citizens Group, after 40 years of failed language policy and excessive spending of public money on an already failed project, it is not just a matter of reducing the sums due to being overburdened, they must be eliminated. They must be eliminated from the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community, because they are unnecessary, because they are ideological investment in order to maintain some control over the media. And besides, not necessarily related, to fatten the accounts of those who have a clear and clear connection with the main governing party. We cannot defend freedom of the press and maintain aid that serves more for control than for the promotion of the use of euskera. And I'm surprised they haven't even tried to reach an agreement with us, because we were on the line. Finally, the anti-democratic cord to Vox favors these kinds of situations. A debate between us, when it should also explain its position a party like the PSOE; or a party like that of the Basque Nationalists, who through such aid have no notice of injecting money for nothing, to the media, who also write in Sabin Etxea. Year 2020. Let's take a look. Distribution of the 900.000 euros destined for the promotion of the use of euskera in the media that mainly use the Castilian: 332,000 destination Race ; 324,000 destination News Group, that media brunette of the PNV ; 200,000 euros for the Group Mail, of course, we must also keep the main communication group in Basquedi happy ; and then already a minimum annual quota for Europe Press, 25,000 euros. And over the years, we have been investigating; and indeed, they have spread with identical protagonists and we have changed the economic weighting a little bit. What is evident, I repeat, is that the information in Euskadi is disseminated in Spanish. People who are in the Basque Country mostly consume information in Spanish. We understand the media. Of course we understand them, if these aids are offered, why give them up? That's obvious. I include one news here and another there, always of little relevance and aimed at a small audience, and I receive a subsidy that, without being decisive, does give us a situation of improvement. Government parties also benefit from this, in particular, of course, the PNV, which is sealing alliances on the basis of distributing euros. A very much yours and a lot of them. It is curious that those who promote these kinds of subsidies are those who present themselves in society as adales of freedom of expression and impartiality. It is another example of the absurd circus in which the exercise of politics is becoming. The story better than the truth. Fiction is more interesting than reality. Senseless debates, contaminated by useless postulates and falsifications of the politically correct. Unsustainable monologues run by an absolute majority government, which sells very well, moreover, the willingness to dialogue, from its conviction that the only reason that exists is his. If you were really betting in this Parliament on the free press, on impartiality and on the contrast of versions and positions, you would let the media make their bets, without conditioning them with extra money, without rewarding with a good amount of euros those who are art and part of the regime, and not penalising the likes, as they do. These aids make no sense, because they pursue the purposes they say they seek. Because in addition, over the years, we have demonstrated and it has been seen that it is absolutely useless for the promotion of the use of euskera. The same applies to those destined for the normalization of Berria and other media in Basque. It is a line of subsidies that should disappear from budgets, because we pay all Basques. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens: disappear, not reduce. Millions of euros that can be given endless uses, and also really interesting for citizens, to meet needs and solve real and non-fictious problems, which are also now accusing us with great interest. And let me make a point before giving way to the silence of the Democratic Cordon parties, EITB, an entity that should be of all people and that has been used for decades as a means for the dissemination of nationalist propaganda, never socialist, gentlemen of the PSOE, make no mistake. Half of the Culture budget is taken away. I repeat: 161 million euros, of which a good part are devoted to programming in Basque, which also sinks a little more each year and which does not arouse any interest at the present time. The conclusion in this way is obvious. The linguistic policy of successive nationalist governments has been an absolute failure, and they do not seem to have any intention of revising it, rather of continuing to insist on a path that has proved dead. This government and its constituent parties use funds to promote the use of euskera in the Budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community to fatten friendly stomachs, to reward their means and to try to condition those who are not on their ropes. That's what there is. That's what we all think. And besides, many of the people here know that that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u83	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Popular-Ciudados, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u84	Thank you very much, President. I'll be brief. We have a position on this initiative. Mrs. Martinez, you're the one who signed the motion. I mean, if you wanted to talk about something, you should have called me. The author of the initiative, if he intends to reach any agreement, is the one who tries to seek that. Because I did not agree with your initiative and I have made my amendment. So, you wanted to get close to me, you should have done it, so don't accuse us of that, because you already know that at the moment we can see a possibility of agreement, because we also stimulate it. But in this case, it was his initiative. It's very complicated... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... That's because you already know that at the moment we can see a possibility of agreement, because we also stimulate it. But in this case, it was his initiative. It is very difficult to approve your initiative, to approve your initiative. First, because through a motion we cannot ask that the laws, the laws we like and the laws we don't like be violated. But by means of a motion it cannot be breached that the subsidies that are established by the draft budget laws are not given. That is, in that sense, the motion certainly would not have virtuality, it could not be applied because there is a law that allows such subsidies. So, in that sense, it's bad. And, of course, neither in any other sense do we share his initiative because it is excessively drastic. And we do not, of course, share that view with which you raise the issues. Such a criterion would complicate things in relation to the Basque, it would really complicate them. Because we want to be proactive with Basque, we want to be realistic too, and we want to understand that there are people and areas that can make an effort and also have the right to share a certain capacity to inform in Spanish, in Basque, and sometimes because there are difficulties to do so in Basque. That is to say, in that sense, we see its refusal excessively drastic. And I say to you, if the budgets are approved, it will be difficult for there to be no calls for grants, so, in that sense, that is a position, I believe, which complicates your initiative a lot. We also know, we know, and what we criticise, our position with the language policies of the Basque Government has been historically critical, has historically been critical, we have understood that there is an excessive use of resources in many areas. And we have put that criticism into practice through the budgets, through our amendments, or through other debates that we have had in relation to various laws or initiatives of other parliamentary groups where we express our position. But we also know that we have to work and we have to do, and we also have to have resources in relation to the Basque language, its promotion, its use, its development and its connection to citizenship in different orders, and on this issue, in the media, because it does not seem bad to us either, does it not? We don't like some of the subsidies and how they are given. We do not like customer subsidies, because we know that there are subsidies that are customer subsidies, but others are not; others are professional or others are of need. That is to say, in this sense, we criticise, of course, those who see that client or ideological or subsidizing character in order to achieve propaganda or advertising purposes. Of course I do. We will always do that, and when we identify it we have done it on some occasion. We do not agree with the language policy of the Basque Government, and on many occasions we have made it clear, in many actions, but we cannot agree, of course, with the initiative you are presenting. Our approach to budgets will be that, now the budgets come, we will make amendments. And we do consider many expenses excessive, among them some that affect media subsidies, both in Basque and Spanish; we consider them hyper-millionaire in relation to needs, with the volume of media broadcast. That is to say, we consider that there is an excess, an over-financing, an over-expenditure. That is our approach. That is to say, we believe that there is, and that is why we have made an amendment which we are asking for in the coming years to reduce expenditure on these budget lines within the subsidies given by the Government, within the headings established by the Basque Government in linguistic policy and in relation to the media and with an over-dimension of funds and money and millions of euros. But that's what we think it is, it's realistic what we do. What's not realistic I think is what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u85	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialist doesn't have to say a word. Not even EH Collectors. Not even Euco patriots. So, when you're ready to answer, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Barrio, I agree in part with you. Do you think that if Vox brought into this House a GNP, as you say, proactive, would have been valued by the rest? Isn't that right? If it doesn't matter what Vox says, then it doesn't make much sense to justify what you've justified. Yes, it is true that you are talking about keeping up with what the law says, and in that I agree with you, of course. But, well, for example, in the process of linguistic political normalization of the Basque administration you saw the illegality of that law. You who advocate this legality, you saw it but you didn't report it, you had to do it Vox. For example. Well, they did report in part, but then they regulated it because Rajoy had to be kept in the seat. Having said that, I return to what I have come to. Euskera. Tributes to the ages, territorial unity, nationalist symbols. These are the initiatives that Vox has brought to this Parliament, among many others. How do you see them? I think they're PNLs like any other group could carry, but they haven't gone any further. Why? Because they're from Vox and everything doesn't matter. And what's even more striking, is like those suspicious alliances to silence Vox, alliances that should also blush this Socialist Party. That no one knows if he goes up or down, that today he is allied with the PNV while making cariñitos to the left abertzale, also contributing to his shameful whitening of his past of complicity with the criminal activity of ETA. That is proof that this Parliament is a circus, a superfluous expenditure, and you are proof of that yourself. Here we debate only what certain games want. They are the same who make partisan use of the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, of the Board of Spokesmen, retort their own rules when they do not flagrantly violate it. And then they come here to share lessons of democracy, of dialogue, of willingness to dialogue. What you gentlemen are doing is advertising your false ethical and moral superiority. And I say fake. And out of respect, I'm going to summarise what I said in my first intervention, which I think... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...promising their false ethical and moral superiority. And I say fake. And out of respect I will summarise what I said in my first speech, which I think is fair: not to subsidies to the media for the promotion of the use of Basque, not to media control, not to the payment of favors to the media, friends, and gentlemen of the PP, I repeat, not to the rain of millions for the consolidation and normalization of the media in Basque. They are private companies and their present and future must depend on their business plans, such as the rest of the private companies, their stakes and their decisions, not on the public money that an interested administration injects them. I think this is fair and that's what we're asking. When we have a business, the bet is ours, we cannot depend on that support from the Basque Government, in this case, especially when they are motivated economic injections for a purpose, that of controlling the media, which is where they know their strength is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u87	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In the name of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados, Mr. Barrio from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u88	Yes, thank you, Madam President, very briefly. Well, I've already told you in my first speech, I've already set my group's position. Yes, some expenditure on language policy seems to us to be excessive, we have said it and we are putting it into practice, of course, in the budgetary years, that is, with our amendments and then we approve what is approved and logically so... and that is what (?) I do not think that the initiative, as Mrs Martínez has put it, is feasible, but we have described some expenditure as excessive. What I do share with you, Mrs Martínez, is the contempt with which you are treated and the denunciation of that contempt of the health cord that is applied in this Parliament. That is, we cannot talk in this Parliament about the Basque subsidies if Vox brings it and we can talk about the police and the Civil Guard leaving, if EH Bildu presents it. It seems to me an inexhaustible disproportion in democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. After the discussion, we'll put Martíne in the original of Mrs. Grayleña... After the discussion, we'll vote for Mrs Martín's original text of Mrs. Grayleña's motion, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 73; abscessions, 0; white; 0, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u90	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudads, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-28.u91	So, it's not supposed to take too much correction. And since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end up with the Full Union. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at twenty-eight.
